

201 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Love in the Time of March Madness

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE N.C.A.A. tournament invariably leaves everybody feeling warm and fuzzy. I sure hope it does this year: we need a hug and a hero more than ever. 
 The sports culture of the United States has increasingly become icon driven. What separates us from so many countries we compete against on the world stage is that we're not compelled by patriotism as much as by a peculiar strain of national narcissism.
 We choose heroes -- or rather, have heroes manufactured for our consumption -- who reflect a flattering view of our imagined selves. The daring skier, the graceful skater. This flattering self-view must begin with winning, however, and that has become an issue on the global stage. Mighty as we are, as much as we flex our economic and political muscle, increasingly, when we've competed internationally we've faltered. 
 The writer Jack London probably started this obsession with a national image. In 1908 he went to Sydney, Australia, to cover the Jack Johnson-Tommy Burns fight. After Johnson won, becoming the first black heavyweight champion, London challenged the former champion Jim Jeffries to come out of retirement and save the Race. 
 Since then, coming up with icons, hopes and heroes -- from Babe Ruth to Joe Louis -- has become an American ritual and a cottage industry. But lately, palatable icons have become hard to come by. 
 We had high commercial hopes for planting the Stars and Stripes on a mountain at the Winter Games in Turin, Italy, but the best we could do was the Flying Tomato. Our fastest runners have been discredited. The United States is hardly tearing up the competition in the World Baseball Classic, a tournament tailored for us to win. Our greatest baseball player is one of the most vilified athletes in North America.
 By contrast, you can always count on March Madness, the conference tournaments and the N.C.A.A. tournament, to deliver. There will always be a player like Syracuse's Gerry McNamara. 
 Yesterday, McNamara hit a 3-point shot against Connecticut to send what seemed to be a lost game into overtime. Syracuse went on to upset No. 1 UConn, 86-84, in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament.
 At the same time, McNamara illustrates how, even in the supposed innocence of college basketball, we devour and discard icons. 
 McNamara was the prince of the 2003 N.C.A.A. tournament, when Syracuse made its surprise run to the championship. He and his fellow freshman Carmelo Anthony were the anchors of the Orange.
 Then Anthony left for the N.B.A., leaving McNamara to fill the void. 
 The next year, Syracuse won two games in the N.C.A.A. tournament before being eliminated. Last year, McNamara led Syracuse to the Big East tournament championship, but the Orange was unceremoniously knocked out of the N.C.A.A. tournament in the first round by Vermont.
 This year, Syracuse is just hoping to get in, and McNamara has been called overrated. 
 On Wednesday, Coach Jim Boeheim lashed into reporters, saying among other things that Syracuse (21-11) would not have won 10 games without McNamara.
 He would be a great player to rally around and to promote. Listen to what he said after yesterday's thriller about the pressure of having to carry his team.
 ''It's my job to get us going. Mentally, physically, emotionally -- every aspect of the game, it's my job to do,'' he said. ''I love this job. I love being the guy that has to take the last shot, I love getting on guys getting on me. I love that. I love being emotional, I love being emotional on the floor. That's contagious.''
 McNamara is a player we could get behind. Unfortunately, he and Syracuse had their day in 2003, and I think he knows it.
 ''It's tough to get spoiled right away,'' he said. ''You win it as a freshman and ever since it's not so easy. I'm thankful for what happened freshman year.'' 
 Realistically, the best hopes for producing feel-good icons in the N.C.A.A. tournament are Adam Morrison of Gonzaga and J. J. Redick of Duke. 
 They are red-blooded, all-American boy-next-door types. But I fear for them. The more they win, the greater the anticipation, the greater the hype, the greater the pressure. I can't remember the last time two white stars were the focal points of college basketball. The temptation to hype them and make them larger than they are will be irresistible, probably to the detriment of the players.
 McNamara said Morrison and Redick had no idea what they were getting into. 
 ''The attention's a little difficult to deal with,'' he said. ''Because it's more than any of us has ever seen. I think that's where it's different.
 ''The regular season is the regular season. When you get to that tournament, it's a lot different: one-on-one interviews, attention all the time, especially when you get deeper. As you go further and further on, it just gets worse and worse.''
 But the story line gets better and better.
 Given the choice of a Flying Tomato, a struggling national baseball team or a flawed home run king in waiting, March Madness seems pretty inviting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SKIING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); RUNNING (57%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Ncaa Basketball Tournament

PERSON: William C Rhoden

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AUSTRALIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



202 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Why Snapple Deal Shrank

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
In September 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stood on an athletic field of a high school in the Bronx and announced that Snapple would become an official beverage of New York City. He predicted the deal would usher in a new era of corporate partnerships that would harness the power of the market to spread the city's image around the world.
 After all, Snapple was started in 1972 by three men who sold fruit drinks in Greenwich Village and grew to become an international brand by the early 1990's, with skyrocketing sales of its iced teas and lemonades. 
''Given the global popularity of Snapple products, this will present the city with countless new opportunities to make positive impressions on people around the world,'' Mr. Bloomberg promised in announcing the deal, under which the beverage would be sold in city buildings and schools.
 More than two years later, though, the Snapple contract has become a symbol of unfulfilled potential, with the deal failing to generate the revenues the city had hoped as Snapple sales have lagged.
 The agreement itself was the target of a lawsuit by the city comptroller, and health advocates have questioned the city's decision to promote its sugary drinks while diabetes remains, as Mr. Bloomberg often says, the only major public health problem on the rise in the city.
 The deal has cast a spotlight on the city's Marketing Development Corporation, the nonprofit group that the city founded in July 2003 to identify branding opportunities to raise money for the city. On Wednesday, the corporation asked a review panel to amend the five-year deal with lower targets, so that the city would get only $17.7 million in cash, compared with the $66 million Mr. Bloomberg estimated when he announced the original agreement.
 Joseph M. Perello, whom the mayor hired in April 2003 to be the city's first chief marketing officer, said he did not regret the deal's lofty goals. 
 ''We were too ambitious,'' he said. ''That's basically it. We were definitely too ambitious. But I will say I'm happy to be guilty of being too ambitious.'' 
 Mr. Perello oversees a staff of 23 at the marketing agency, including a lawyer and a paralegal who jealously guard the city's trademarks and pursue companies that make or sell knockoff products that infringe on the city's intellectual property. 
 Mr. Perello, 37, said he would prefer to focus on the corporation's successes, like bringing the Country Music Association's annual award ceremony to New York City for the first time, on Nov. 15, and being the host of the world premiere of Peter Jackson's remake of ''King Kong'' in Times Square, on Dec. 5. 
 ''I'm not sorry about all of this,'' he said of the beverage deal. ''I would do it again. Obviously, if I had the chance I'd want to learn and do it better. But if you want to innovate and do new things, you have to be willing to reach and take risks.''
 The organization began with a loan from the city's Economic Development Corporation. In fiscal 2004, its first year of operation, it lost $692,000, but it had net income of $797,000 in 2005 and stands to make $1.3 million this fiscal year, which ends June 30, according to Mr. Perello. Most of the money received from the licensing deals so far has been put into other marketing projects, and little has made its way to the city's coffers. 
 Mr. Perello -- who worked at MBNA America, the credit-card issuer, from 1989 to 1997, and then for the Yankees, from 1997 to 2000 -- said the agency had moved away from vending arrangements and would now focus on marketing sponsorships, licensing arrangements and promoting its partners through advertising. 
 Under the amended deal, New Yorkers can expect to see many more Snapple ads on bus shelters and phone booths -- the two major pieces of advertising real estate that the marketing agency controls. 
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, who is also the chairman of the marketing agency, said yesterday that the Snapple arrangement ''proved more difficult'' than he had anticipated, in part because officials ''assumed it would be easier to get machines located in properties controlled by the city.''
 Still, he said the arrangement was ''absolutely unprecedented'' and potentially profitable. ''We still generated a lot of money and provided value for the city,'' he said.
 Not everyone has so rosy a view. 
 Bernd Schmitt, a professor of international business at Columbia Business School, said the arrangement was flawed from the start because it was neither creative nor unique. ''This campaign was wrong in many ways,'' said Dr. Schmitt, who is executive director of the Center on Global Brand Leadership. ''There was nothing special or new about the product -- only the association with the city and its availability in government buildings. The association is with a government campaign, and that's not particularly sexy.'' 
 A Snapple representative defended the deal's intent, if not its execution, yesterday. ''It was very visionary,'' said Jack Belsito, the president of Snapple's distribution arm, who negotiated the New York City deal. ''But they were too ambitious on the amount of locations. They didn't have the control over the agencies they thought they had.''
 Some city agencies refused to accept Snapple vending machines. In other places, machines could not fit in narrow or short corridors or could not be plugged in because there was no electrical outlet nearby.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Slimmer Snapple Deal''After disappointing sales in New York City buildings, Snapple is renegotiating its agreement with the city. The width of the arrows below shows the amounts involved in the deals, with all figures in millions.ORIGINAL AGREEMENT$30 Marketing fees (cash)$36 Vending commissions (cash)$60 Marketing (in-kind)$30 Marketing (in-kind)PROPOSED REVISION$15.3 Marketing fees (cash)$2.4 Vending commissions (cash)$44.6 Marketing (in-kind)$15.3 Marketing (in-kind)(Source by New York City Marketing Development Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); TEA (78%); TRADEMARKS (76%); BRANDING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); COFFEE & TEA (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); PARALEGALS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); TRADEMARK LAW (67%); LITIGATION (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); DIABETES (51%) Beverages; Advertising and Marketing; Vending Machines; Beverages

ORGANIZATION: Snapple Beverage Group

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



203 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: The Future Divined By the Crowd

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
LAST Sunday was Oscar night, which of course meant movie stars, glamour, Jon Stewart's jokes and -- drum roll, please! -- Michael J. Mauboussin's annual economics experiment. Or rather, his annual economics eye-opener. 
 Mr. Mauboussin is a well-known Wall Street strategist, now with Legg Mason, who gained a following for an offbeat, scholarly newsletter called The Consilient Observer, in which he tackled such diverse subjects as what investors can learn from Tupperware parties and why stress can lower investment performance. His work is sometimes dense, but always original.
Since 1993, Mr. Mauboussin has also been an adjunct professor at Columbia Business School. Every year, as the Academy Awards approach, he asks his students to vote for the winners in 12 categories, not just the biggies but some relatively obscure ones, like best film editing and best art direction. Then, after the Oscars have been awarded, he tallies the results and compares the students' predictions with the winners. 
 This year, the pick that got the most votes -- the consensus pick, he calls it -- turned out to be right in 9 of the 12 categories, including, amazingly enough, film editing and art direction. And yet, of the 47 students who participated, only one matched the accuracy of the consensus. None did better, and most did much worse; according to Mr. Mauboussin, the average number of correct answers per ballot this year was only 4.1. ''It has never failed,'' he said. ''The consensus invariably does much better than the average student.''
 The point of Mr. Mauboussin's little experiment is to illustrate the power of so-called prediction markets, in which groups of people guess or bet on something, with the results aggregated into a consensus. Prediction markets, while not perfect, are surprisingly accurate -- certainly more accurate than individual experts or polls, research has found. 
 The granddaddy of prediction markets, the Iowa Electronic Market, which the University of Iowa has run since the late 1980's, allows people to make election predictions. The consensus almost always beats the polling data; in the last presidential election, for instance, it not only steadfastly predicted a Bush victory, but came within 1.1 percentage point of the actual result.
 PREDICTION markets aren't just for curious academics anymore; in the last few years, there has been an explosion of interest. A handful of dot-coms, with names like Hollywood Stock Exchange, hedgestreet.com and Newsfutures, offer people the chance to predict everything from how much a new movie will gross in its first month to whether gasoline prices will rise. (Hedgestreet.com's slogan is: ''It's your economy. Trade it.'')
 Some sites plan to permit Wall Street traders to begin trading on such questions, much in the way commodities traders bet on the future price of soybeans. Perhaps most intriguing, companies have begun experimenting with prediction markets as a new kind of forecasting tool. Though it's still a little early to say for sure, prediction markets could wind up changing the ways companies go about making decisions.
 There are two recent events that gave rise to this new interest. The first was a quasi-disaster. In 2003, John M. Poindexter, who was heading up a small research group inside the Pentagon, tried to create a public prediction market for geopolitical events, including possible terrorist attacks. But the criticism was swift -- Mr. Poindexter was accused of creating ''terrorism futures'' -- and the program was killed. Still, the publicity got a lot of businesspeople thinking about the utility of prediction markets. ''The Pentagon,'' chuckled Alexander Costakis, who runs the Hollywood Stock Exchange, ''put it on the map.''
 The second event was the publication, in 2004, of ''The Wisdom of Crowds,'' by James Surowiecki, a business columnist with The New Yorker. Mr. Surowiecki's title was purposely meant to echo -- and contradict -- Charles Mackay's famous 1841 work, ''Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds,'' which Mr. Surowiecki describes, correctly, as ''an endlessly entertaining chronicle of mass manias and collective follies.'' No one argues that crowds don't sometimes go mad; from Dutch tulips to dot-com bubbles, the evidence is pretty irrefutable. But Mr. Surowiecki set out to show that far more often, the crowd got it right.
 His book is filled with examples of the power of ''collective intelligence,'' as he likes to call it. For instance, Mr. Surowiecki describes a case in which a naval officer located a sunken submarine by asking people with bits of specific expertise to take their best guess. Their collective answer turned out to be within a few hundred yards of the submarine's location.
 Another example came on Jan. 28, 1986, the day the Challenger shuttle exploded. All the stocks of rocket makers were down that day, of course, but by far the hardest hit was Morton Thiokol -- which made the faulty part that was responsible for the disaster. The stock market is nothing if not a prediction market writ large. But how could the market possibly have known about Morton Thiokol's culpability on the first day? No information had been revealed. There was no excessive insider selling. There wasn't even any media speculation as to the culprit. Yet, somehow the market knew. 
 Two of the people who read Mr. Surowiecki's book were Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, and Bo Cowgill, a young Google executive. Being a forward-thinking geek, Mr. Cowgill decided to set up some prediction markets at Google, and management gave him the go-ahead. He's been doing it for a year now. 
 The Google market is internal only -- the voters are all Google employees. To avoid insider-trading problems, Mr. Cowgill stays away from any stock price or quarterly earnings questions. And to entice people to participate he gives away T-shirts. And he asks pretty useful questions: ''When will a product launch? How much will a particular feature be used? How many full-time people will accept jobs at Google in the next quarter?'' he said. 
 The utility of such forecasting is clear: it is important for companies to know when a product will be introduced, and tapping into the collective intelligence of employees to predict the date is at least as good a way to find out as talking to the project manager. In fact, it is probably a better way; at a recent conference, Mr. Cowgill presented a series of slides showing that Google's internal market was amazingly accurate, especially in markets in which lots of people participated. 
 Google is hardly the only company doing this. Eli Lilly has used internal markets to forecast drug development. Hewlett-Packard has become a fan. Emile Servan-Schreiber, the chief executive of Newsfutures, sells software to companies that helps them set up prediction markets. His first customer, in 2003, was Eli Lilly. Now, he says, he is working with 12 to 15 companies.
 Yahoo has gone about it a different way, setting up a public market called Tech Buzz. It allows people to make bets on which technologies will be popular in the future; the point, for Yahoo, is to get out in front of popular coming search terms. ''The more we know about trends, the better we can adapt our search services,'' said David Pennock, who runs the predictive markets for Yahoo.
 Still, it's hard to know for sure whether predictive markets will turn out to be the next big thing. ''There is a lot of interest, but we're still missing the big success story,'' said Robin D. Hanson, a professor at George Mason University and a reigning expert in the field. ''People are trying it on small, cute things. We haven't seen a company that's made $1 million using this stuff.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Cowgill told me that he really had no idea how Google's management used the forecasts generated by the company's prediction markets. Mr. Servan-Schreiber said the companies that were showing interest were ''early adopters.'' One of his clients, Corning, has set up a prediction market to gauge demand for L.C.D. screens, which it manufactures. ''Corning has billions on the line, and it needs to be able to assess demand,'' Mr. Servan-Schreiber said. Maybe that experiment will turn out to be the success story Mr. Hanson is looking for. (Corning, alas, declined to comment.)
 The real problem for prediction markets is that the notion is so counterintuitive. We're used to the idea that experts, full of specialized knowledge, will get it right far more often than a crowd of people with no special insight. The thought that the reverse is actually closer to the truth is hard to get one's head around.
 ''I'm not sure why it works,'' Mr. Mauboussin said. But then he offered a theory. ''All of us walk around with a little information and a substantial error term. And when we aggregate our results, the errors tend to cancel each other out and what is distilled is pure information.''
 Well, maybe. Myself, I'm going with the ''Shakespeare in Love'' theory. You recall, surely, the producer played by Geoffrey Rush. Whenever he was asked how it was that a play that seemed to be such a hopeless muddle during rehearsal was transformed into a gem on opening night, he had a stock reply, one that seems to describe prediction markets perfectly:
 ''It's a miracle.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Joe Nocera column in Business Day on Saturday, about prediction markets, in which groups of people guess or bet on something with the results aggregated into a consensus, misstated a line from the actor Geoffrey Rush in ''Shakespeare in Love'' that was used to explain how the aggregated information tended to reflect events accurately. He said, ''It's a mystery,'' not a miracle.
The Joe Nocera column in Business Day on Saturday, about prediction markets, in which groups of people guess or bet on something with the results aggregated into a consensus, misstated a line from the actor Geoffrey Rush in ''Shakespeare in Love'' that was used to explain how the aggregated information tended to reflect events accurately. He said, ''It's a mystery,'' not a miracle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Oscars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (69%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); GASOLINE MARKETS (63%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (62%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEGG MASON INC (58%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



204 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Port Deal's Collapse Stirs Fears of Repercussions in Mideast Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD; Hassan M. Fatah contributed reporting from Dubai for this article, David D. Kirkpatrick from Washington and Heather Timmons from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
President Bush expressed concern on Friday that the Congressional opposition that prevented a state-owned Dubai company from taking over some terminal operations at six American ports could have a broader negative effect by alienating allies in the Middle East.
 In an apparent sign of the new sensitivities, the United Arab Emirates, which includes Dubai, reached what both sides called a ''mutual decision'' with the Office of the United States Trade Representative to postpone talks on a free trade agreement that had been scheduled to resume next week. 
Emirates officials said the decision to delay the talks was unrelated to the port controversy. Mr. Bush and his top aides praised the decision of the Dubai company, DP World, to back away from the acquisition, and insisted that it did not signal broad opposition on the part of the United States to investment from Middle East allies.
 ''I think we are all very grateful that the government of U.A.E. has taken this statesmanlike step,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told reporters on her plane traveling to Chile.
 The United States will now do ''everything that we can to continue to strengthen'' ties to the United Arab Emirates, Ms. Rice added.
 But even Mr. Bush could not completely dismiss concerns that there could be repercussions in the United Arab Emirates and other Middle East countries over widespread suspicion that anti-Arab bias lay at the center of the Congressional opposition to the ports deal. In a speech to newspaper executives in Washington, he said he was ''concerned about a broader message this issue could send to our friends and allies around the world, especially in the Middle East.''
 The deal unraveled abruptly on Thursday when DP World said that, at the direction of Dubai's ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, it had decided to transfer the leases to manage some of the busiest terminals in the United States to an American company. DP World had acquired the leases as part of its purchase of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, a British company, for $6.8 billion.
 In Dubai, a Persian Gulf sheikdom of gleaming malls and resorts, reaction to the retreat was a mixture of relief that the controversy was over and annoyance at the reaction in Congress.
 ''It looks like the Arabs, this time, proved to be more mature than the Americans,'' said Mohammed al-Roken, vice chairman of the Emirates Human Rights Society and a local opposition figure.
 ''They understood that this was a business deal, and that if something stood in its way, they were not going to fight for it,'' Mr. Roken said of the U.A.E. government. ''I'm just glad that Dubai did not allow itself to get into a clash with people who are not discussing facts.''
 Of particular concern to American officials is that the scuttling of the DP World acquisition may lead the emirates to retaliate by scaling back its cooperation with the American military, which uses emirates airfields and deep water ports as major logistical hubs.
 ''This is going to put their cooperation to a test,'' Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in an interview.
 Mr. Warner, who tried sought to broker a compromise, said Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar, which also provide extensive help to the American military in the Persian Gulf, are ''carefully watching the situation and should the U.A.E. diminish their level of support, I'm not sure any of the other three will pick it up.''
 But in commercial-minded Dubai, few expect the ports controversy to have any lasting effects on security cooperation. Still, the controversy may have an impact on the free-trade agreement, which has been under negotiation since 2004.
 ''People here feel they have been picked on unjustifiably and said we don't deserve all this,'' said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a professor of political science at Emirates University. ''So I would expect the U.A.E. to be in a tougher mood during the negotiations. They'd better be; they should express their bitterness.''
 In Congress, lawmakers of both parties said the company's surrender appeared to have ended the drive for legislation to block foreign ownership of American port terminals.
 ''With the Dubai issue off the table, a lot of air has been let out of the tires,'' said Ron Bonjean, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois.
 It remained unclear, however, how many suitors would seek to acquire the terminal leases at New York, Newark, Baltimore, Miami and other busy ports. A sale of the properties may not be easy, because American port terminals do not offer the kind of financial returns or growth prospects most American investors expect, analysts said.
 Many port terminals in the United States are already owned by foreign companies, which have come to dominate the international shipping business.
 ''With the exception of Newark, these ports don't have much room for expansion,'' said John Lawson, an analyst with Investec Securities in London.
 Company spokesmen have repeatedly declined to clarify whether DP World's pledge to ''transfer'' the leases to a ''United States entity'' meant a complete sale or some alternative structure like a trust or subsidiary based in the United States that would allow DP World to retain some ties to the terminals. A Treasury Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the confidentiality of the government's talks, said the department expected an outright sale.
 Brookly McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the Treasury Department, said, ''What is clear is that the port terminals will not be operated by DPW; they will be operated by a U.S. entity.'' 
 In its statement on Thursday announcing the decision, DP World referred to an understanding that it ''will not suffer economic loss,'' leading some Wall Street analysts to suggest that the United States government intended to compensate DP World financially for any difference between its high purchase price and a potentially low resale value. The Treasury Department official, speaking again on the condition of anonymity, said however that the government had made no such pledge.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who helped lead the effort to block the deal, released a letter to President Bush questioning the term ''transfer.''
 ''I am very concerned that the legal structure of the U.S. entity will not have a sufficient wall between the company and the Dubai government,'' Mr. Schumer wrote.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Saturday showing President Bush addressing a group of newspaper executives carried an incorrect credit. The photographer was Andrew Councill for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, speaking to newspaper executives, expressed concern about reaction from ''allies around the world, especially in the Middle East.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (85%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (85%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (85%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (63%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (63%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (63%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (63%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



205 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Victim in Torture Photos Tells of Prison Conditions
Ali Shalal Qaissi, who two years ago was an anonymous prisoner at Abu Ghraib in Iraq, tells of his six-month stay there and the story behind the scandalous picture of him standing hooded atop a cardboard box and attached to electrical wires. A1

The American ambassador to Iraq is urging Iraq's political leaders to hold a conference to broker a grand coalition. 
 A8

Payroll Bankrupts Palestinians
The need to pay overdue and current salaries has left the Palestinian Authority ''bankrupt'' despite recent donations of about $70 million from international donors, the government's economic minister said. A6

American Hostage is Killed
An American who was among four Christian activists kidnapped last year in Iraq has been killed, a State Department spokesman said. The F.B.I. verified that a body found Friday morning in Iraq was that of Tom Fox, 54. The spokesman said he had no information on the other three hostages. A8

U.N. Delays Human Rights Vote
The United Nations extended its deadline for seeking approval of a new human rights council that is opposed by the United States but backed by rights groups and a majority of the 191 member states. A8

Pakistan Bans Deadly Passion
Kite flying has been banned from a popular spring festival in Pakistan, after a spate of injuries and deaths from kite dueling, a popular game where kites are flown on a thin metal wire or a thick string, coated with glass or chemicals, to better attack opponent's kites. A7

NATIONAL A9-13, 16

Push for Lobbying Law Is Losing Momentum
The drive for a tighter lobbying law, which just two months ago was a major priority on Capitol Hill, is losing momentum, a victim of shifting political interests, infighting among House Republicans and a growing sense among lawmakers of both parties that wholesale change may not be needed after all. A1

Port Deal Hinders Bush Agenda
President Bush's inability to hold sway over his party on the Dubai port deal suggests that he faces trouble keeping Republicans together on his major policy initiatives this year, lawmakers and aides said. A10

Interior Secretary Resigns Post
Gale A. Norton, who as interior secretary has been a key player in the Bush administration's efforts to exploit natural resources on federal lands, announced that she was resigning. A16

Ex-Aide Arrested for Stealing
A former top White House aide was arrested in the Maryland suburbs on charges that he stole merchandise from a number of retailers, the police in Montgomery County, Md., said. The former aide, Claude A. Allen, 45, was President Bush's top domestic policy adviser until resigning last month. A11

Religion Journal A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Spacecraft Orbits Mars
The most sophisticated spacecraft ever sent to Mars slipped into orbit, while tense controllers monitored from Earth. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Gotti Avoids Conviction As Jury Deadlocks Again
For the second time in six months, after more than a dozen witnesses, including reformed mobsters, a Manhattan jury failed to reach a verdict in the case of John A. (Junior) Gotti, the son of the storied Mafia boss who shares his name. A1

Shakeup at Newark Airport
The head of security at Newark Liberty International Airport, which has been plagued by screening lapses and poor morale, was removed from his position by the federal government. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

With a Sigh, U.S. Advances
Less than 24 hours after facing the humiliation of first-round elimination, the United States players approached their game with South Africa realistically. With Roger Clemens pitching, the United States beat the overmatched South Africa, 17-0, to advance to the second round of the World Baseball Classic. D6

ARTS B7-16

OBITUARIES C14

John Profumo
England's secretary of war in the government of Harold Macmillan, who was forced to resign when his relationship with a young prostitute emerged, he was 91. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

From Clubhouse to Boardroom
Corporations are under pressure to appoint experienced and independent board members, but golf handicaps and club memberships still play a role. A1

Perils of Online Real Estate
The growing popularity of real estate listings on the Internet has created an opportunity for unscrupulous sellers to try and resell dilapidated houses for inflated prices. A1

A Bid for London Exchange
The London Stock Exchange, Europe's biggest stock market, rejected an informal $4.1 billion takeover bid from Nasdaq, but the exchange is considered an attractive target for a rich-enough bidder. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: About that rebellion; Ambien in the driver's seat; separate and unequal for Gypsies; how about a fresh helping of secrecy?

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B12
Crossword B14
TV Listings B16
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TORTURE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); RELIGION (69%); ARRESTS (63%); SPACE EXPLORATION (61%); NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); RETAILERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARS (64%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



206 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: On the Internet, Some Home Buyers Find a House of Cards

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER; David Staba contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
For the last few years, real estate transactions over the Internet -- where buyers need never set eyes on the property they purchase -- have become increasingly common.
 On eBay, the biggest online marketplace, and dozens of other Web sites with names like Bid4Assets.com and Realestatesupermarket.com, sales involving tens of thousands of dollars can occur entirely online. EBay, for example, may have more than 1,800 residential properties listed on any given day -- from multimillion-dollar vacation houses in Florida to thousand-dollar fixer-uppers in the rural Midwest.
But now, with plenty of buyers eager to get in on the real estate boom, such online sites have become perfect places for unscrupulous sellers who have bought dilapidated houses at, say, foreclosure auctions, to resell, or flip, them quickly for inflated prices. Many of the deals sound too good to be true. But the gullible are lured by nice photos and a belief that online transactions on big Web sites are generally safe.
 Online flipping is happening in economically distressed cities in New York, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania. The practice, local government leaders say, is destabilizing already weakened urban neighborhoods by displacing legitimate investment. 
 Buffalo has been particularly hard hit by online flipping, as the city's persistent population decline and high foreclosure rates have created a glut of some 20,000 vacant houses. 
 ''Ninety-nine percent of these online ads have some kind of fraud or lies,'' said Tracy Krug, a building inspector in Buffalo. ''They paint a nice rosy picture: 'on a bus line, near a nice market.' They don't tell you you're going to be across the street from a crack house.''
 Safeguards that protect buyers, like state laws requiring disclosures about a property's condition, are rarely effective when the transaction is online. Although such laws apply to most transactions, online or not, a long-distance buyer will not necessarily know about them. 
 This might help explain why Greg Tanner, who says he has a knack for ''turning one dollar into two dollars,'' is now more than $30,000 in debt.
 Three years ago, Mr. Tanner, a pawnbroker in Salida, Colo., hoping to make money in real estate, went to eBay and found low-price houses for sale in Buffalo. 
 One ad, for a house at 173 Paderewski Drive on the city's East Side, read: ''Attractive, warm, two-story home has great potential.''
 Forty years ago, that might have been true. Through much of the 20th century, the residents of Paderewski Drive, most of them Polish immigrants, took pride in their hard-earned homes. 
 But since the 1980's, as working families fled the East Side, a neighborhood increasingly vulnerable to crime, many of the houses on Paderewski and the surrounding streets have been abandoned or demolished. 
 Although Mr. Tanner, 48, had never set foot in Buffalo, he called the seller, a real estate investor named Scott Burton, who had paid $1,000 for the house a few months earlier. Based on what he learned from Mr. Burton, Mr. Tanner said he believed that the house was in decent shape and needed only minor repairs. Mr. Burton, who has bought and sold dozens of houses in Buffalo, could not be reached for comment.
 Mr. Tanner and his business partner paid Mr. Burton $3,000 for the house on Paderewski Drive, and $10,000 for two other houses in the same area, on Lombard Street. They paid with a credit card, using PayPal. Eventually, the deeds were transferred and recorded in the Erie County clerk's office.
 Two of the houses were considerably run-down, Mr. Tanner said, but it was the 130-year-old two-story house at 173 Paderewski that was to become his albatross.
 Over the next few months, he paid nearly $7,000 to a Buffalo contractor, recommended by Mr. Burton, who told him that all that was needed were a few thousand dollars in repairs. After a while, the contractor reported to him that the work had been completed, Mr. Tanner said, and the house was ready to be rented. The contractor e-mailed photos to Mr. Tanner to show his work.
 Counting on a profit, several months after buying the Paderewski Drive house Mr. Tanner advertised it for sale on eBay. He quickly found a buyer in Britain: Claire Fennelly, a residential landlord in West Yorkshire who was looking for investment property in the United States.
 Ms. Fennelly paid $14,900 to Mr. Tanner and his business partner, and $2,500 more to the same contractor for further repairs. 
 Then Ms. Fennelly decided to do what Mr. Tanner had not: she and her husband got on a plane and flew to Buffalo in November 2003. When they took a cab to Paderewski Drive and arrived at the house, the cab driver refused to let them out. The neighborhood was just too dangerous, he said. When she saw the house, Ms. Fennelly said, it had missing windows, holes in the roof and the siding was gone. 
 ''You've never seen anything like it,'' she said. ''We sat there in the cab thinking, 'What have we done.' ''
 Ms. Fennelly called Mr. Tanner immediately. He said hers was the first true description of the house he had heard. He promised to pay her back and called the county clerk's office to make sure that the title would not be transferred to her. Ms. Fennelly said she was still waiting for a refund and had not taken legal action against him. 
 A few months later, Mr. Tanner received a Housing Court summons for a lengthy list of code violations, so he drove the 1,600 miles from Colorado to Buffalo. He said he received little sympathy from the Housing Court judge. Mr. Tanner called Mr. Burton to demand his money back, but could reach only Mr. Burton's business partner, Stephen Fox, who, Mr. Tanner said, hung up on him. 
 Calls placed to Mr. Burton's home in Gulfport, Miss., seeking comment about his real estate transactions, were not returned. Mr. Fox, reached in Roseburg, Ore., said Mr. Burton had no interest in commenting. (Mr. Tanner said recently that he was not pursuing any legal action against Mr. Burton or the contractor. ''I'm already too drained, financially,'' he said.) 
 Sam Hoyt, a Democratic state assemblyman and co-chairman of the Buffalo mayor's task force on real estate flipping, whose aim is to educate consumers on the destructive effects of the practice, blames eBay, saying it enables dishonest flippers to lure buyers. 
 Mr. Hoyt said he had repeatedly appealed to eBay officials, asking the company to make specific changes, like informing sellers that they must comply with New York State disclosure laws and requiring a copy of written sales contracts. But Mr. Hoyt said he had received little cooperation from the company.
 ''What eBay is doing, in my opinion, is immoral,'' he said. ''They have a responsibility to not facilitate activity like this.'' 
 Representatives of eBay say the company has few legal obligations to buyers of real estate on the site. ''The people responsible for house flipping,'' an eBay spokesman, Hani Durzy, said, ''are the people selling these houses and the people buying them sight unseen. How these sellers and buyers are connecting is not as important as the fact that the buyers are not doing the proper due diligence when buying a property.'' 
 (Although eBay holds real estate licenses in many states, it does not act as a real estate agent and does not charge a commission. Instead, it charges a flat listing fee of $100 to $300 for residential property, depending on the duration and the type of listing.)
 Joe Tseng, a real estate investor from San Marino in Los Angeles County, also saw what looked like a great deal on eBay -- in his case, an apartmentbuilding in Youngstown, Ohio. Mr. Tseng did fly to Ohio to inspect the property, which turned out to be a run-down and nearly vacant 11-unit building.
 He withdrew from the deal, lost his $5,000 deposit, and learned a hard lesson about buying real estate online. ''It's very dangerous,'' Mr. Tseng said.
 Richard W. Hayman, president of Bid4Assets in Silver Spring, Md., agreed with Mr. Durzy that buyers needed to be cautious. ''Some of this actually amazes me,'' he said. ''People seem to think 'caveat emptor' doesn't apply when you're sitting at your computer.''
 Yet Ms. Fennelly, who has been shopping on eBay for years without a problem, said it was the feeling of safety she got from eBay that made her buy property before setting eyes on it. ''You get lulled into a false sense of security with the name eBay, then get scammed in a big way,'' she said. ''If it wasn't eBay, I wouldn't have gone ahead with it.'' 
 She is not alone. Mr. Krug, who has been a building inspector in Buffalo for 18 years, said he was now dealing with online buyers as far away as Australia and Israel. ''You're talking all over the world, people buying stuff in Buffalo, saying, 'Nine thousand dollars. I can't beat that.' ''
 Michele Johnson, a resident of Buffalo's East Side and one of the founders of the task force on flipping, said she had reported hundreds of misleading real estate listings to eBay, with little effect. Still, Ms. Johnson said: ''It's hard to say that taking the listings off eBay would fix the problem. These sellers are just going to find another avenue.'' 
 The house at 173 Paderewski, which was claimed by the city for back taxes Mr. Tanner had not paid, was deemed a safety hazard and razed several weeks ago. The cost of the demolition, which Buffalo expects Mr. Tanner to pay, is $9,000.
 Mr. Tanner's two houses on Lombard Street were also taken by the city. They, too, are in line for demolition. Mr. Tanner, whose business partner has declared bankruptcy, said he lay in bed at night, wondering where he went wrong.
 Mr. Krug said Mr. Tanner had asked him the same question. ''I told him the first thing he did wrong was buy a computer,'' Mr. Krug said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A run-down house in Buffalo that was purchased online, sight unseen. (Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Tracy Krug, a building inspector in Buffalo, said buyers as far away as Australia had bought homes online, like this one on Lombard Street. (Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ETHICS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); CITIES (67%); FAMILY (67%); POPULATION DECLINE (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); COCAINE (50%) Housing; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Computers and the Internet; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Consumer Protection; Housing

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Ebay Inc

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%)

PERSON: Katie Hafner

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



207 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Why Appliances Buck the Trend and Cost More 

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
The price of home electronics declines each year as advances in technology keep making them better -- with a few notable exceptions.
 Kitchen and laundry room appliances, which are now loaded with electronics, have defied the trend over the last decade. While the average price of a laptop computer dropped 23 percent in just one year and big-screen television prices have been falling at an average rate of 30 percent a year, the average price of a dishwasher rose 10 percent in the last decade. Market analysts at the NPD Group calculate that the average price of a washing machine went up 16 percent in the last two years.
 Why? Certainly the big appliances are designed to do a lot more than those made a decade ago, but so are laptops and digital cameras. You might think the situation reflects high demand during the recent remodeling boom, except that demand has been far stronger for televisions and digital cameras. And white goods, as the industry calls refrigerators, washers and dryers, are made with more electronics and most are manufactured overseas, which should be bringing prices down. 
 It would be easy to blame energy efficiency for the increases. The machines that are the cheapest to operate also carry the heftiest price tags. Surprisingly, those high-priced appliances, like front-loading washers, are still the best deal -- even when the makers wrap the energy-efficient electronics in high-style stainless steel. 
 The sales growth in appliances has been in the luxury end of the market, where consumers choose stylish products with expensive finishes. That segment has been growing faster than 10 percent a year while the rest of the market is flat. And it is in that high-end segment where you will find most of the energy-saving choices. 
 Federal mandates that say manufacturers must make refrigerators, dishwashers, washing machines, dryers and air-conditioners more energy efficient may have pushed prices up. American manufacturers like the government regulation, which began in 1987.
 ''It's a public policy step that was going to work for everyone,'' said Joseph M. McGuire, president of the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers. ''Say you have an appliance that is 15 years old. You'd save 50 percent on energy costs with a new machine.''
 The trade group estimates that American consumers will have saved 5 quadrillion British thermal units of energy and as much as 11 trillion gallons of water by 2030. Americans, by the way, spent 5.67 percent of their income on energy last year, less than the historical average.
 The efficiency movement has also accelerated the replacement of older appliances. The federal government estimates that the typical household spends $1,500 a year on energy bills and could save up to 30 percent, or more than $450 a year, with machines given the Energy Star rating by the Department of Energy.
 An analysis made in 2003 by Ronald J. Sutherland, an economist and law professor at George Mason University, estimated that consumers actually overpaid $46.4 billion for these appliances because the mandates limited the choice to more expensive models and the new standards made it more difficult for smaller companies to compete. The macroeconomic debate is unlikely to be settled, but it raises a question of whether, on the individual level, buying new energy-efficient machines makes sense. 
 Let's say you are enamored with Whirlpool's Duet, the country's top-selling front-loaded washing machine. It is one of the more energy-efficient machines using about 227 kilowatt hours of electricity a year, according to a government rating that appears on the yellow Energy Guide sticker affixed to all new appliances. 
 You can find one at Sears or other appliance stores for about $1,400. (Of course, the cost won't end there. Unless you buy a matching Duet dryer at about $900 to sit next to it, your laundry room will look like a squinty-eyed pirate.)
 The Duet washer would cost about $78 a year to operate compared with $161 a year for Whirlpool's $549 Ultimate Care top-loader, according to a downloadable calculator on the Department of Energy Web site (http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?fuseaction=find--a--product). 
 But because the Duet costs so much to buy, the total cost of the front loader over seven years is $1,946, or $269 more than the Whirlpool classic top loader. 
 Guess what? It makes economic sense to buy the more expensive machine. In theory, a dollar today is more valuable than a dollar in seven years. Therefore, you should be willing to pay $318 more for something that saves you $546 over seven years. (You can do this ''present value'' calculation at http://www.csgnetwork.com/presvalcalc.html). That calculation will be useful anytime you buy a product that promises future savings.
 Realize of course, that you are also paying $269 to let all your friends know you have style. So make sure you leave the door to the laundry room open.
 You knew style would cost you more. Is there also a price premium placed on energy-saving machines? In many cases there really isn't. Let's rule out style by examining two conventional-looking top loaders from the same manufacturer. One of Whirlpool's lowest-priced Energy Star-rated machines is a $479 3.2-cubic-foot capacity top loader. A less energy-efficient machine of the same size goes for $449. 
 Over the next seven years, the total cost of the energy-efficient machine will be $1,256 compared with $1,450 for the seemingly cheaper machine, a real savings of $194.
 A rebate from a utility makes it look even better. For example, Alliant Energy in Iowa offers $50 to $100 for buying an Energy Star-rated appliance. Pacific Gas and Electric in California offers as much as $75. Most of the rebates are higher for front-loading washers because they tend to be more energy-efficient. 
 The Internal Revenue Service is giving taxpayers credit for energy savings this year. But it applies to furnaces, water heaters, solar panels, windows and hybrid vehicles like the Toyota Prius, but not energy-saving appliances. (For details, see http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=products.pr-tax-credits#2). 
 So why doesn't it cost much more to buy an energy-efficient appliance? The reason appears to be that American consumers don't value energy efficiency. 
 ''Americans are too affluent to be directly influenced by the direct cost of gasoline or electricity,'' said Alexander Lidow, chief executive of International Rectifier, a supplier of power management equipment to appliance makers. 
 Audrey Reed-Granger, a Whirlpool spokeswoman, said: ''They come for the look, and they see as a second benefit, 'Omigosh, it is saving me money.' '' 
 Mr. Lidow said that ''since the consumer isn't going to pay for energy efficiency, it has to be delivered for free.'' He said the new technology costs the manufacturer no more than the old parts it replaced in air-conditioners and washing machines. He predicts that will happen next year in refrigerators as the cost of the new technology drops to about $40 from the $250 it cost at the beginning of the decade. Manufacturers in Europe and Asia, where consumers face higher energy costs, are more eager to embrace the technology first, he said.
 The replacement of electronics and variable-speed electric motors for pulleys and gears has given energy-efficient machines other benefits. They are usually quieter. Washing machines use less detergent and water and they spin the water off so effectively that clothes take less time to dry, thus saving more money. The dual-evaporator system in a GE Profile refrigerator with ClimateKeeper2 technology means fewer defrost cycles in the freezer as well as less energy consumption. Sensors in washing machines can weigh the clothes and adjust the water level, while sensors in dishwashers can determine how much water and sparingly dole out the detergent. 
 The energy-saving technology allows the manufacturer to add features, like 25 different wash cycles, and then increase the price. That is why the most energy-efficient appliances end up marketed as premium-priced products.
 ''All the evidence shows that consumers are willing to move up and pay for higher-end products,'' said David McCalpin, chief marketing officer for General Electric's American consumer and industrial unit.
 Manufacturers are gradually democratizing energy-saving technologies. Though NPD estimates that 35 percent of refrigerators and washers carry the Energy Star rating, which means they use even less energy than the average machine on the market, it said 85 percent of dishwashers won the designation. GE said it sells 365 models of consumer and commercial refrigerators, dishwashers and washing machines that carry the rating. 
 In the end, appearance may be all that matters. Take the Prius. The hybrid uses less fuel than a gasoline-powered car. But the Prius comes at a higher price that is rarely offset by the savings in fuel. The Prius is a feel-good car that runs on sanctimony as much as on its battery power. Much of its value is that everyone can see you driving that little Earth saver. 
 No one will see you being green in the laundry room.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (87%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%) Home Appliances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Energy Efficiency; Washing Machines; Consumer Behavior; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Home Appliances

ORGANIZATION: Npd Group

PERSON: Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



208 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: The Future of Natural Gas Pricing Could Be a Trans-Atlantic Tug of War 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
JUST when natural gas prices seemed likely to hit the moon this winter, much of the United States had the warmest January in history. With gas inventories high, prices plunged. Natural gas is now unusually cheap relative to oil. 
 United States natural gas is also cheap relative to gas in Britain, and traders think that pattern will persist into next winter -- notwithstanding the fact that the weather is notoriously hard to predict.
Wild swings in natural gas prices have long been a part of the commodities market. Unlike oil, gas was impossible to ship outside of pipelines. So a surplus of gas in the United States would drive prices down, perhaps at the same time they were soaring in Britain because of a cold spell.
 But that is starting to change, as the volume of liquefied natural gas transported by ship grows. Those ships can turn around if one market will pay much more than another for gas.
 ''Once it gets really cold, you have both sides of the Atlantic bidding for the same gas,'' said Francisco Blanch, a commodity strategist at Merrill Lynch in London. ''This winter we had a very cold period in November and December, and there was a lot of competition'' among Britain, Spain and the United States.
 The chart to the right shows just how cheap gas is now, compared with oil. Oil prices are recalculated to reflect the ratio of 5.8 barrels of oil equaling 1 million British thermal units, or B.T.U.'s.
 In December, when fears were highest, United States natural gas cost $4.80 per million B.T.U.'s more than crude oil. Only once since gas futures began trading in 1990 had gas cost so much more than oil. That was during a similar brief period in December 2000.
 But by Monday of this week, the relationship had flipped, and crude oil cost $4.21 per million B.T.U.'s more than gas, the biggest margin since fall 1990.
 In normal times, oil has cost a little more than gas -- an average of 77 cents during the last decade -- because there are power plants that can switch from gas to cheaper refined oil products if prices call for that. Gas is cleaner, and is preferred if it is economical.
 At the moment, as can be seen from the other charts with this story, a United States natural gas future for delivery in February costs $10.48 per million B.T.U.'s, but a British future for the same time costs the equivalent of $14.99 per million B.T.U.'s. ''If U.K. to U.S. price differentials remain this large,'' said Mr. Blanch of Merrill Lynch, ''then very little gas will head to North America next winter.'' As more liquefied natural gas supplies become available, and as ports are outfitted to receive such supplies, such a disparity will become more and more unlikely. Whether it can endure for next winter will be seen over the next few months. Any trader who thought it was going to narrow could use futures or options to place that bet now.
 But as the last three months have proved, natural gas prices can be extraordinarily volatile, creating big gains or losses within days.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''In U.S., Natural Gas Is Now Cheaper Than Oil . . .''Graphs track natural gas (premium to oil) and oil (premium to natural gas) from December 2 through March 3.And It Is Also Less Expensive Than in BritainGraphs track natural gas contracts expiring in the month shown for the United States and Britain.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



209 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: 243,000 Jobs Were Added Last Month; Warm Weather Played a Role 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
American employers added 243,000 jobs in February and workers posted their highest salary gains in more than four years, the government reported yesterday, igniting concerns among many Wall Street economists that higher wages could fuel inflation and increase expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates further. 
 But some economists cautioned that employment is benefiting from the exceptionally mild weather in January and the beginning of February, and that employers' demand for workers is unlikely to remain as strong in the coming months. 
''This report is good, but it does not say the economy is booming,'' said David Kelly, senior economic adviser at Putnam Investments, the mutual fund concern in Boston. 
 Others pointed out that workers' wages are barely keeping up with the rate of inflation, recent gains notwithstanding -- and there is little proof that they are pushing prices up across the economy. 
 ''This is what a healthy job market looks like -- we just haven't seen it for a long while, so it makes inflation hawks nervous,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington. 
 The burst of job creation in February was the biggest since November, when employment rebounded sharply as Louisiana and Mississippi picked themselves up after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 The Commerce Department trimmed 23,000 from its previous estimate of job growth in January. Yet in spite of this reduction, monthly job growth still added up to 206,000 on average in the first two months of the year, about 40,000 more than the average for 2005.
 Despite the job surge, the unemployment rate ticked up to 4.8 percent from 4.7 percent in January, as strong demand for workers prompted hundreds of thousands of people who had been on the sidelines to look for jobs.
 ''This is the kind of report we would like to see more of in the future,'' an economist at Citigroup, Steven Wieting, said. ''There was an encouraging rise in labor participation. It means we can have more employment growth without straining resources.''
 Average hourly wages for ordinary workers -- excluding management positions -- increased by 5 cents in February, to $16.47 -- 3.5 percent more than a year ago.
 ''It shows the economy is on a solid upward trend,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's investment strategies group ''Businesses are becoming more confident in their willingness to hire workers and it also suggests that job growth will continue to support moderate growth in consumer spending.'' 
 But the increase in wages was greeted with some furrowed brows. ''Wage restraint was helping businesses out and now it's not,'' said Gregory Miller, chief economist at Suntrust Banks in Atlanta. ''Have we tipped over the edge? Maybe not, but the trend in wages is moving higher.''
 Since it started increasing rates in June 2004, the Fed has raised its benchmark federal funds rate to 4.5 percent from 1 percent. Many economists warned that the Fed was now less likely to stop increasing interest rates soon. 
 ''The big problem now is what does the Fed do with this,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist of Argus Research. ''How does the Fed take the foot off the brake when you have stellar job creation and signs of increasing inflation?''
 In a note to clients, Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., argued that ''the Fed is going to 5 percent and more if housing does not collapse by midyear.''
 Yet the job market may not remain as robust as it now appears, as employment over the last two months has been inflated by exceptionally mild weather. Temperatures across the country averaged 36.3 degrees from December through February, making it the fifth warmest winter since 1895. January's average temperature of 39.5 degrees was the highest ever recorded. 
 The good weather ended in early February, but it still helped employment in the construction industry, which added 41,000 jobs in the month after a 55,000 increase in January. These gains are unlikely to continue at their current rate, as the housing market begins to wobble, housing inventories rise and the construction of new homes starts to decline. 
 ''I still expect construction to be adding jobs but at a more modest pace,'' said Ken Simonson, chief economist at the Associated General Contractors of America, a trade group based in Arlington, Va. A backlog of home orders and continued strength in commercial real estate should keep contractors busy.
 Brian Bethune, United States economist at Global Insight, an economic analysis firm in Lexington, Mass., said that if one excluded the temporary effect of the balmy winter -- as well as some boost to jobs from the reconstruction efforts on the Gulf Coast -- employment growth is averaging about 180,000 jobs a month. While this is solid growth, he argued that it provided ''no evidence of over-tightness in the labor market.''
 Indeed, some sectors remain exceptionally weak. Manufacturing employment contracted by 1,000 jobs in February -- its first decline since September -- as the nation's beleaguered automotive industry cut 10,600 jobs, offsetting gains at makers of electronics, machinery and other products.
 And workers' wages are not quite soaring. Consumer price inflation is running around 4 percent a year, still substantially faster than the 3.5 percent wage growth. 
 Mr. Bernstein at the Economic Policy Institute argued that wages are not pushing other prices upward. Core inflation, which excludes the volatile components of energy and food, has not crept up in tandem with wages, instead remaining stable at around 2 percent a year since the end of 2004. 
 ''I don't think the economy is superstrong here,'' Mr. Kelly of Putnam said. ''And I don't think the Federal Reserve should be raising interest rates any further.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on March 11 about job growth in the United States in February misidentified the government agency that reports employment data. It is the Department of Labor, not Commerce.
An article in Business Day on March 11 about job growth in the United States in February misidentified the government agency that reports employment data. It is the Department of Labor, not Commerce.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in February''UnemploymentBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteFEB.: 4.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5BlackFEB.: 9.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -1.5Hispanic*FEB.: 5.51-MONTH CHANGE: -0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.8AsianFEB.: 3.21-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.3Teenagers (16-19)FEB.: 15.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -2.2DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (In weeks)AverageFEB.: 17.61-MONTH CHANGE: +4.8%1-YEAR CHANGE: -7.9%MedianFEB.: 8.91-MONTH CHANGE: +6.01-YEAR CHANGE: -3.3SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedFEB.: 62.9%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.6Labor force (workers and unemployed)FEB.: 66.11-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)Working part time, but want full-time workFEB.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.7%1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.7%People who currently want a job**FEB.: 4.8+1-MONTH CHANGE: -5.81-YEAR CHANGE: +5.2UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolFEB.: 7.2%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7High schoolFEB.: 4.41-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4Some collegeFEB.: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Bachelor's or higherFEB.: 2.21-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Graph tracks unemployment rate. (4.8%, currently)EmploymentAVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersFEB.: $55.041-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.5%BY TYPE OF WORK (In millions)NonfarmFEB.: 134.81-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5%GoodsFEB.: 22.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5ServicesFEB.: 112.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5AgricultureFEB.: 2.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.21-YEAR CHANGE: +2.9Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.**People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); WEATHER (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Unemployment; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); STI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Eduardo Porter; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



210 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Employment Gains Lift Dow; Indexes Mixed for the Week

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Broad-based gains in employment sent stocks higher yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrials rising more than 104 points as investors regained some confidence in the economy. However, yesterday's rally was not enough to keep the markets from showing mixed results for the week. 
 The 243,000 jobs created in February, which were spread throughout the service and industrial sectors, surpassed the 170,000 jobs created the previous month, according to the Labor Department. Average wages were up just 0.3 percent, and the unemployment rate rose to 4.8 percent, from 4.7 percent in January. 
The report was well balanced in addressing Wall Street's concerns of late. The increase in jobs points to continued economic growth, while the modest wage gains and slightly higher unemployment rate eased fears of more workers creating higher demand for goods and possibly promoting inflation.
 ''I think stock investors right now are looking at a Fed that might not go beyond March's rate hike,'' said Matthew Smith, vice president at Smith Affiliated Capital. ''We're seeing signs in this report that the economic growth engine isn't going to continue steaming ahead. And that's a good sign for rates.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 104.06 points, or 0.95 percent, to 11,076.34. 
 Broader stock indicators also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 9.35, or 0.73 percent, to 1,281.58, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 12.32, or 0.55 percent, to 2,262.04. 
 Bond prices were lower, with the 10-year Treasury note falling 8/32, to 97 31/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rising to 4.76 percent from 4.72 percent. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies. 
 Oil prices edged lower, pressured by higher energy stockpiles in the United States and steady output levels from major producers. A barrel of light crude settled at $59.96, down 51 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Over the last few weeks the market has showed little change as investors look to the Fed's meeting at the end of the month for better guidance on economic conditions. 
 ''I don't see what we got here today as anything other than a technical move upward, and it's because there's no real bad news,'' said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments. ''We're still kind of in this range we've been in for a while, and there's no real argument you can make to break out in either direction until we see some better data.'' 
 For the week, the Dow rose 0.5 percent, while the S.& P. fell 0.44 percent and the Nasdaq tumbled 1.75 percent. 
 In company news, J. P. Morgan Chase gained 8 cents, to $41.13, even though the company said in a regulatory filing late Thursday that it expects higher credit losses in 2006 as a result of higher minimum-payment rules for credit cards. Those rules are to take effect in the second half of the year. 
 Google fell $5.50, to $337.50, after it purchased a start-up company that makes an online word processor, another move seen as a challenge to Microsoft. Microsoft added 17 cents, to $27.17. 
 Nortel Networks fell 7 cents, to $3.02, after the company reported a $2.21 billion loss for the fourth quarter. The company also said it would be forced to restate earlier financial statements because of accounting errors, and warned that it could default on its $1.3 billion credit facility. 
 Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. jumped $4.06, or 10 percent, to $43.56 after the London Stock Exchange said it received, and rejected as too low, a $4.2 billion takeover bid from Nasdaq. The NYSE Group, which has said it is looking to acquire other exchanges, fell $1.55, to $74.54. 
 The Dow Jones industrials ended the week up 54.75, or 0.50 percent, finishing at 11,076.34. The S.& P. 500 index fell 5.65, or 0.44 percent, to close at 1,281.58. The Nasdaq lost 40.56, or 1.76 percent, to end at 2,262.04.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: SMITH AFFILIATED CAPITAL CORP (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



211 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing the Picket Line 

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
AS corporations become increasingly global, unions must, too, so that they can remain effective, argues Andrew L. Stern, president of the 1.8-million-member Service Employees International Union.
 Mr. Stern's union represents health care workers -- including physicians -- as well as janitors and security guards, among others. He envisions a federation of worldwide unions, organized by sector, which ''would bring to bear cross-border union leverage to organize entire industries rather than individual companies, thereby lifting the living standards of workers,'' Lenny T. Mendonca writes in the current issue of The McKinsey Quarterly.
The interesting thing about taking this approach, Mr. Stern says, is that it would allow the unions that make up the federation to, in essence, outsource job actions. 
 ''If workers are ready to go on strike in the United States, and we are ready to pay them to strike, it would be very costly,'' Mr. Stern says. ''But paying workers in Indonesia or India or other places to go on strike against the same global employer isn't particularly expensive.''
 Such a strike, if it disrupted the global shipping of goods manufactured overseas but intended for sale in the United States, could be extremely effective, he adds.
 ''American unions have a disproportionate amount of resources, while other unions have political power,'' Mr. Stern says. ''If we think together, we may be able to use the global economy to our advantage.''

WHAT HUMAN RESOURCES? -- If ''people are our most important asset,'' as just about every corporation claims, how is it that most companies do not talk about employees in the annual report?
 That is one logical question to ask, after reading the research done by Mercer Human Resource Consulting. Mercer found that only 20 percent of the 100 largest United States public companies discussed human resources in their reports to shareholders.
 That small number is even more surprising considering that large American companies spend about 36 percent of revenue on people, HR Magazine reports. The Securities and Exchange Commission requires companies to report only how many employees they have, it adds.
 ''Imagine a company spending one-third of its revenue on a capital investment and never addressing it with shareholders,'' said a Mercer consultant, Rick Guzzo. ''It's unthinkable.''

OUTSOURCING RX -- Despite all the advances in medical research, the only way to truly tell if a new drug works is to try it on a sick person.
 The problem is, in the United States, ''the number of patients who are willing to sign up for clinical trials is abysmally low,'' Jennifer Kahn writes in Wired. ''Just 3 percent of cancer patients opt to join trials, and the number of U.S. patients who sign up for cardiac trials have plunged by half over the past five years.''
 It is difficult to find a large number of ailing people and persuade them to try a potential but unproven remedy with uncertain side effects.
 And yet the drug companies need a huge number of human guinea pigs to prove statistically that a new medication is not only not harmful, but could actually be beneficial.
 To find the necessary participants, drug companies are looking overseas. The upshot is that medical trials can be added to the long list of tasks being outsourced.
 ''As many as half of all clinical trials are already conducted in countries like India, China and Brazil,'' Ms. Kahn writes, adding that countries are now jockeying to attract trial drugs, both because the medications may prove to be helpful and to receive the money the research companies spend on the tests.
 ''The consulting firm McKinsey calculates that the market in India for outsourced trials will hit $1.5 billion by 2010,'' Ms. Kahn adds.

FINAL TAKE -- Marketers, take note: The question, put to a representative sample of people, was, ''What is it that you wouldn't give up, even if it meant sacrificing a part of your daily routine?''
 The answers, according to Health magazine:
 Sex: 19 percent;
 Exercise: 22 percent;
 Coffee: 25 percent;
 Television: 28 percent.
 It's good to know what is important in life. PAUL B. BROWN


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); STRIKES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); POLITICS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); CLINICAL TRIALS (62%); CANCER (62%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (61%) Labor; Organized Labor; Strikes; International Trade and World Market; Corporations; Research; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Labor; Tests and Testing; Consultants ; Labor; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: MERCER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (91%) Service Employees International Union; Mercer Human Resource Consulting; Wired (Magazine); Mckinsey & Co; Hr Magazine

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Andrew L Stern; Jennifer Kahn; Paul B Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%) India; China; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



212 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Gentrification Changing Face Of New Atlanta 

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Brenda Goodman contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 8 

 BODY:
In-town living. Live-work-play. Mixed income. The buzzwords of soft-core urbanism are everywhere these days in this eternally optimistic city, used in real estate advertisements and mayoral boasts to lure money from the suburbs and to keep young people from leaving.
 Loft apartments roll onto the market every week, the public housing authority is a nationally recognized pioneer in redevelopment and the newest shopping plaza has one Target and three Starbucks outlets.
 But although gentrification has expanded the city's tax base and weeded out blight, it has had an unintended effect on Atlanta, long a lure to African-Americans and a symbol of black success. For the first time since the 1920's, the black share of the city's population is declining and the white percentage is on the rise.
 The change has introduced an element of uncertainty into local politics, which has been dominated by blacks since 1973, when Atlanta became the first major Southern city to elect a black mayor. 
 Some, like Mayor Shirley Franklin, who is serving her second and final term, play down the significance of the change, saying that the city -- now 54 percent black -- will remain progressive and that voters here do not strictly adhere to racial lines. Others warn of the dilution, if not the demise, of black power. 
 ''It's certainly affecting local politics,'' said Billy Linville, a political consultant who has worked for Ms. Franklin. ''More white politicians are focusing on possibly becoming mayor and positioning themselves accordingly, whereas in the past they would not have. The next mayor of Atlanta, I believe, will be African-American, but after that it may get very interesting.'' 
 The changes do not mean that Atlanta has lost its magnetism for blacks. Twenty-year projections show the percentage of African-Americans continuing to inch upward in the 10-county metropolitan area. Blacks already hold the majority on the Clayton County commission, and they are gaining footholds in counties like Cobb and Gwinnett.
 But the city itself, a small splotch of fewer than half a million residents in a galaxy of sprawl, is now attracting the affluent, who are mostly white, in part because they want to avoid gear-grinding commutes that are among the nation's longest.
 In that sense, demographers say, the shift is driven by class rather than race. In 1990, the per capita income in the city of Atlanta was below that of the metropolitan area as a whole, but in 2004 it was 28 percent higher, the largest such shift in the country, according to a University of Virginia urban planning study. 
 So rapid is the explosion of wealth that Ms. Franklin recently tried to impose a moratorium on McMansions, new houses bloated far beyond the size of their older neighbors. 
 According to census figures, non-Hispanic blacks went from a high of 66.8 percent of Atlanta's population in 1990 to 61 percent in 2000 and to 54 percent in 2004. In the same time period, non-Hispanic whites went from 30.3 percent to 35 percent. The 2004 figures are estimates. 
 Even the Old Fourth Ward, the once elegant black neighborhood where Martin Luther King Jr. was born, is now less than 75 percent black, down from 94 percent in 1990, as houses have skyrocketed in value and low-rent apartments have been replaced by new developments.
 ''There could be a time in the not-too-distant future when the black population is below half of the city population, if this trend continues,'' said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, a Washington research group.
 Atlanta's upward shift in its white population is atypical, Mr. Frey said. Although many other cities have embarked on revitalization programs, only Washington is seeing a similar, if less stark, racial trend as Atlanta. More often, blacks and whites both are losing ground to a surging Latino population. Even in Atlanta, the Latino population rose to 26,100 in 2004 from 18,700 in 2000. 
 Most mayors would see a physical revitalization like Atlanta's as an accomplishment. The city has led the country, rivaled only by Chicago, in the race to replace public housing projects with mixed-income developments. 
 Housing has also mushroomed in places where it had not previously existed. The most ambitious project, Atlantic Station, a shopping and residential district on the site of a former steel mill near downtown, will have more than 2,000 units. Loft prices start at $160,000.
 But critics say Mayor Franklin and her predecessor, Bill Campbell, betrayed their voter base by not doing enough to keep Atlanta affordable for poor blacks as property taxes increase and landlords sell out to developers.
 ''It's clear as the nose on your face who it's going to impact the most,'' said Joe Beasley, the human resources director at an Atlanta church and a member of the city's Gentrification Task Force, now defunct, which studied ways to ease the effects of rising property taxes and housing prices. ''Bill Campbell was cutting his own throat, and Shirley Franklin is continuing to cut her own throat.''
 Ms. Franklin counters that many new developments, including Atlantic Station, have set aside areas for low-income or affordable housing. She says one of her major accomplishments, financing a badly needed overhaul of the sewage and water system without a large increase in rates, has kept city living affordable. But the bottom line, in the mayor's view, is that the city must try to mold development where it can.
 ''We're constantly seeking a balance in what we support,'' Ms. Franklin said last week in a telephone interview. 
 David Bositis, a senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington group that studies black issues, said he viewed the change as largely positive. ''I don't know that it ever was a good thing when you had cities that were becoming viewed as black cities,'' Mr. Bositis said. 
 He added, ''People said, 'This is our city now,' but half the time you looked at what was there and you said, 'Who cares?' ''
 Race is not the only factor in the political equation. 
 ''We're talking about an era in which you see a conservative trend among certain sectors of the black community,'' said William Boone, a political science professor at Clark Atlanta University, a predominantly African-American institution. ''That's going to have some impact on who's offered for mayor.'' 
 Power in Atlanta has always involved coalitions of blacks and other groups, said Ms. Franklin, who has received high marks for restoring credibility to city government and who was re-elected in 2005 with 91 percent of the vote.
 ''This whole notion that the sky is falling, I don't see it,'' Ms. Franklin said. ''To me the question is, Will Atlanta be a progressive city, given that it's the home of the civil rights movement, the home of the historically black colleges? Will that continue with the demographic shifts? And my answer is yes.''
 Already, the change has had unpredictable effects. Kwanza Hall is a young black politician from the rapidly gentrifying Old Fourth Ward, a neighborhood that is part of a mostly white City Council district that includes affluent areas like Inman Park. But in the last election, Mr. Hall, who ran his campaign from a year-old coffee shop next to a soon-to-open men's spa, defeated two whites for an open seat. 
 To Joe Stewardson, who owns the coffee shop building and was the first white president of the ward's community development corporation, the question was not Mr. Hall's race but his ability to forge relationships outside a neighborhood whose boundary was, not too long ago, what Mr. Stewardson called ''an iron curtain.'' 
 ''You would not have seen that,'' Mr. Stewardson said, ''if this neighborhood had not changed so much.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lena Jones, left, a longtime Atlanta resident, with new neighbors Andrew Davies and Miyong Julie Pak in the changing Old Fourth Ward.
Crews work on the demolition of the Grady Homes housing project in Atlanta to make way for a new development near downtown. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Chart/Map: ''A Shrinking Black Majority''Census tracts with large black majorities* in 1990 where the percentage dropped in 2000These tracts in Midtown went from 85 percent black to 67 percent black.Percentage of black residents in Atlanta1990: 67%2000: 61%2004: 54%*At least 75 percent of residents are black.Map of Atlanta highlighting drop in the percent of blacks from 1990 to 2000.(Sources by Map data from Queens College Sociology Department
 chart data from William H. Frey, Brookings Institution)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); CITY LIFE (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); TRENDS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SUBURBS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); CENSUS (70%) Demographics; Blacks; Population; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%)

PERSON: Shaila Dewan; Shirley Clarke (Mayor) Franklin

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlanta (Ga); Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



213 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Chile's Socialist President Exits Enjoying Wide Respect

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, March 10 

 BODY:
Ricardo Lagos Escobar barely squeaked into office six years ago, winning just a hair over half of the vote in a hard-fought runoff. On Saturday, though, he will step down as president of Chile with three-quarters of the population saying they approve of his performance, according to recent opinion surveys.
 As the first Socialist to govern Chile since Gen. Augusto Pinochet overthrew Salvador Allende in 1973, Mr. Lagos took office carrying a historic burden. But by combining cautious economic policies with advances in social equality and human rights, he has built a level of respect that cuts across class and generational lines, from conservative businessmen to the rock fans who gave him an ovation when his presence was announced at a U2 concert here two weeks ago. 
 In a survey of 20 prominent Chilean historians, political scientists and other academics published last weekend in the conservative newspaper El Mercurio, one of his most incessant critics, Mr. Lagos's presidency was ranked the best of the 30 the country has had since 1900. 
 Mr. Allende, who died in the American-supported military coup against him, was next to last on the list, while General Pinochet was in a tie for 10th place.
 ''This country is much better off now than when Lagos first came in, both in terms of economic growth and poverty reduction,'' said Patricio Navia, a professor at the Diego Portales University here and at New York University who took part in the survey. 
 Successful, stable governments are hardly the rule in this part of the world, and for a president to leave office more popular than when he entered is even more unusual. During Mr. Lagos's tenure, for example, two neighboring countries, Argentina and Bolivia, have each had six different presidents, at least two of whom were toppled by popular uprisings.
 During an interview, Mr. Lagos, 68, an economist who earned a doctorate at Duke University, said that when he came to power after a decade in which the country was led by Christian Democrats, both the business class and ''the military sectors were quite suspicious.'' He viewed his task, he said, as one of ''dispersing ghosts'' from the past and gaining the confidence of skeptics.
 Though still not popular with the far right or his own left flank, which considers him too timid, Mr. Lagos calmed the powerful business elite by continuing the main economic policies of his predecessors: pursuing budget surpluses and programs to stimulate exports. But with copper prices at a record high and the economy growing faster than any other in South America, he could also afford to let the military acquire new weapons while investing in health, education and housing programs for the poor.
 In the foreword to a recently published collection of Mr. Lagos's essays, speeches and interviews, called ''The 21st Century: A View from the South,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain praises Mr. Lagos for demonstrating ''how the values inherited from socialism can be applied in a 21st-century society.'' 
 The most concrete indicator of Mr. Lagos's success in soothing the initial fears that he might be a replay of Mr. Allende is that he will transfer power on Saturday to another Socialist, Michelle Bachelet. She is the first woman to be elected president of a Latin American country who was not the widow of a political leader, and Mr. Lagos says he promoted her ascent in part as a way of showing the rest of the world that its perception of Chile was out of date.
 ''In 2002 it was still thought, especially abroad, that Pinochet was running things,'' he explained. ''I was tired of explaining that Pinochet wasn't in charge.'' When he moved Ms. Bachelet from health minister to defense minister, he said, ''nobody complained -- nobody said anything.''
 Mr. Lagos also addressed Chile's painful past by creating a commission to investigate and report on torture during the Pinochet years and by persuading the military to acknowledge its responsibility for those abuses. He has also allowed the judicial system to prosecute General Pinochet, giving specially appointed investigative judges the money and the independence they need to do so.
 ''We have had many differences with him, but in retrospect, during the Lagos administration Chile has made the most impressive progress on human rights issues as well as justice reform and freedom of expression,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, a Chilean lawyer who is director of Human Rights Watch Americas. 
 Mr. Lagos's term has also been marked by major social changes like the legalization of divorce and the end of film censorship. ''In general, the transition agenda is coming to an end,'' the president said in the interview. ''A few elements of healing wounds still remain, yes, but those will close with time.''
 Despite Mr. Lagos's Socialist origins, his government struck trade agreements with the United States and the European Union, among others. Since the accord with Washington went into effect in 2004, Chilean exports to the United States have increased nearly 80 percent and American exports to Chile have climbed 90 percent.
 Politically, though, there have been a few rocky moments in relations with the United States, most notably when Chile was a member of the United Nations Security Council in 2003 and opposed the Bush administration's plan to invade Iraq. 
 But he won Washington's gratitude the following year by taking on, with Brazil, the leadership of a Latin American peacekeeping mission in Haiti, sparing the Bush administration the political and military cost of direct involvement there while its forces have their hands full in Iraq.
 ''We have had an outstanding relationship with President Lagos,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told Latin American reporters in Washington on Thursday, just before flying here for Ms. Bachelet's inauguration. ''I think he has been not just a great president for Chile, but he's been really a wise and strong force for democracy and for free economies throughout the region.'' 
 On a continent where President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela gets most of the attention, Mr. Lagos is valuable to the United States because he ''embodies the other left, the successful left,'' said Arturo Valenzuela, who was director of Latin American affairs at the National Security Council during the Clinton administration. ''It's not like he is a Socialist in sheep's clothing; he has actually done a lot in the way of social programs.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Lagos has combined economic growth with human rights. (Photo by Martin Bernetti/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RELIGION (85%); HISTORY (78%); COUPS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RANKINGS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUDGETS (70%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%) St Joseph's Day; Public Opinion; Politics and Government

COMPANY: EL MERCURIO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: Larry Rohter; Ricardo (Pres) Lagos

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%) Valencia (Spain); Chile

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



214 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Authority Faces Budget Crisis, Official Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 10 

 BODY:
In the last two weeks, the Palestinian Authority has been given about $70 million -- more than $40 million released by the World Bank, nearly $21 million from the European Union and $10 million from Norway. But even when all that money arrives, the Palestinian Authority will have only 95 percent of the money needed to pay February's overdue salaries, according to the Palestinian economic minister.
 How it will cover salaries for March, said the minister, Mazen Sinokrot, ''remains a mystery.'' And once Hamas, the militant Islamic party that swept January's legislative elections, names a new government, significant amounts of international aid will dry up. 
''We're bankrupt,'' Mr. Sinokrot said bluntly in an interview on Thursday in his Ramallah office. ''The world can't abandon us. It's in no one's interest, not for Israel or anyone, to have the P.A. public sector collapse. To increase unemployment this way would be a message of violence, not of peace.''
 Mr. Sinokrot needs $115 million a month just to pay the salaries of 145,000 public sector employees, about half of whom, he said, shaking his head, are listed as security forces. Most of them have weapons. The Palestinians raise about $35 million a month from internal taxes. But Israel is withholding about $55 million a month in customs and duties it collects for the Palestinians, arguing that a Hamas majority in Parliament means that Hamas, which Israel and the West consider a terrorist group, controls the Palestinian Authority, the Palestinians' governing body. The major donors -- the European Union, the World Bank, the United States and a few Arab nations -- do not agree with the Israeli position because Hamas has not yet formed a government.
 Even if Israel were handing over the revenue, the Palestinian Authority would still be in a significant hole, since it needs about $165 million a month to operate.
 Mr. Sinokrot, who is not a member of Hamas, is a potential finance minister in the new government. But he said no one from Hamas, including the prime minister-designate, Ismail Haniya, had talked to him since the elections.
 Mr. Sinokrot calls Israel's decision to withhold the money a ''collective punishment'' of Palestinians for voting for Hamas, and urged the world to see the Hamas victory ''as a real window of opportunity'' created by democracy.
 But Israel and the so-called quartet for Middle East peace -- the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -- have warned that a new Hamas government will face isolation and further cuts in financing unless it recognizes Israel, rejects violence and accepts the validity of previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 Those are major hurdles that Hamas leaders are unlikely to clear soon, if ever. If they do not, the United States intends ''to make their ability to function as a government enormously difficult,'' David Welch, the State Department official in charge of Middle East affairs, has warned. European Union foreign ministers meeting in Salzburg, Austria, warned Hamas on Friday that ''money will not flow to the new authority unless it seeks peace by peaceful means,'' in the words of one commissioner, Benita Ferrero-Waldner of Austria. ''We want to remain a reliable partner for the Palestinian people, but we will not go soft on our principles,'' she said.
 At the same time, Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, said Europe ''must find ways to support the Palestinian people,'' adding, ''We want to maintain what has taken us so many years to build up -- a Palestinian Authority that is the embryo of a state we must complete, and which one day will exist.''
 Mr. Solana, Mr. Welch and the quartet's envoy, James Wolfensohn, are exploring how to create a new structure to funnel money to the Palestinians through Mahmoud Abbas, the leader of the rival Fatah faction and the president of the Palestinian Authority. 
 Mr. Sinokrot said he thought that was a bad idea. ''We shouldn't have a shadow government here,'' he said. ''It's not our way.''
 Jibril Rajoub, a senior Fatah official and Mr. Abbas's national security adviser, warned in a separate interview on Thursday that in light of the Palestinian Authority's financial problems, the world must help ensure ''that we keep the security apparatus out of this situation'' by continuing to pay armed members of the security forces.
 Nearly all the security services in the larger West Bank are affiliated with the defeated Fatah movement. Hamas has a trained force of at least 5,000 in Gaza, where they operate freely. But in the West Bank, where Israeli troops patrol regularly, the Hamas military wing is small, badly armed and underground.
 Asked if forces loyal to Fatah might rise up against a Hamas government on the West Bank, Mr. Rajoub angrily dismissed the notion. ''We'll never use violence,'' he said. ''But the situation is very sensitive and critical -- the way to do business is according to the law, and the president is commander in chief.'' Fatah will cooperate with Hamas only if it accedes to the authority of the Fatah-dominated Palestine Liberation Organization and accepts the agreements the P.L.O. has legally negotiated in the name of the Palestinians -- like the Oslo accords and the idea of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel, he said.
 ''Hamas has no right to dictate its ideas onto the Palestinian people,'' Mr. Rajoub said gruffly. ''Hamas is not leading the Palestinian people. It only has a majority in the Parliament, and the P.A. should implement the policies of the P.L.O. whether it likes it or not.'' ''Fatah will fight against any violations of the laws and traditions of the Palestinian people,'' he continued, then smiled. ''Our fighting will be 100 percent within the rules of democracy.''
 Asked what lessons he and Fatah had learned from their defeat, Mr. Rajoub talked about the need to reassert the unity of Fatah. But first, he said, gesturing above his desk to a portrait of Yasir Arafat, the late Palestinian leader, who never allowed Hamas to run in elections, ''the people of Fatah should weep for the days of Arafat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); HAMAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); RELIGION (55%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); HAMAS (85%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Palestinian Authority; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Union; Hamas

PERSON: Steven Erlanger; Mazen (Min) Sinokrot

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); NORWAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel; Norway; Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



215 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Open Doors Don't Invite Criminals

BYLINE: By Robert J. Sampson. 
Robert J. Sampson is a professor of sociology at Harvard.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
LAW enforcement officials, politicians and social scientists have put forward many explanations for the astonishing drop in crime rates in America over the last decade or so, and yet we remain mystified. Studies have shown that while each of the usual suspects -- a decline in crack use, aggressive policing, increased prison populations, a relatively strong economy, increased availability of abortion -- has probably played some role, none has proved to be as dominant a factor as initially suggested. 
 Perhaps we have been overlooking something obvious -- something that our implicit biases caused us not to notice. My unusual suspect is foreigners: evidence points to increased immigration as a major factor associated with the lower crime rate of the 1990's (and its recent leveling off). 
Consider what sociologists call the ''Latino paradox'': Hispanic Americans do better on a range of various social indicators -- including propensity to violence -- than one would expect given their socioeconomic disadvantages. My colleagues and I have completed a study in which we examined violent acts by almost 3,000 males and females, ranging in age from 8 to 25, from 1995 to 2003. The study selected whites, blacks and Hispanics (primarily Mexican-Americans) from 180 Chicago neighborhoods ranging from highly segregated to very integrated. We also analyzed data from police records, the Census and a separate survey of more than 8,000 Chicago residents who were asked about the characteristics of their neighborhoods.
 Surprisingly, we found a significantly lower rate of violence among Mexican-Americans than among blacks and whites. A major reason is that more than a quarter of all those of Mexican descent were born abroad and more than half lived in neighborhoods where the majority of residents were also Mexican. Indeed, the first-generation immigrants (those born outside the United States) in our study were 45 percent less likely to commit violence than were third-generation Americans, adjusting for family and neighborhood background. Second-generation immigrants were 22 percent less likely to commit violence than the third generation. 
 This ''protective'' pattern among immigrants holds true for non-Hispanic whites and blacks as well. Our study further showed that living in a neighborhood of concentrated immigration is directly associated with lower violence (again, after taking into account a host of factors, including poverty and an individual's immigrant status).
 Now consider that immigration to the United States rose sharply in the 1990's, especially from Mexico and especially to immigrant enclaves in large cities. Overall, the foreign-born population increased by more than 50 percent in 10 years, to 31 million people in 2000. A report by the Pew Hispanic Center found that immigration grew most significantly in the middle of the 90's and hit its peak at the end of the decade, when the national homicide rate plunged to levels not seen since the 1960's. Immigrant flows have receded since 2001, while the national homicide rate leveled off and seems now to be creeping up. 
 The emerging story goes against the grain of popular stereotypes. Among the public, policymakers and even academics, a common expectation is that a concentration of immigrants and an influx of foreigners drive up crime rates, because of the assumed propensities of these groups to commit crimes and settle in poor, presumably disorganized communities. This belief is so pervasive, studies show, that the concentration of Latinos in a neighborhood strongly predicts perceptions of disorder no matter what the actual amount of crime and disorder. 
 Yet our study found that immigrants appear in general to be less violent than people born in America, particularly when they live in neighborhoods with high numbers of other immigrants. We are thus witnessing a different pattern from early 20th-century America, when growth in immigration from Europe was linked with increasing crime and formed a building block for what became known as ''social disorganization'' theory. 
 In today's world, then, it is no longer tenable to assume that immigration automatically leads to chaos and crime. New York is a magnet for immigration, yet it has for a decade ranked as one of America's safest cities. Border cities like El Paso and San Diego have made similar gains against crime. Perhaps the lesson is that if we want to continue to crack down on crime, closing the nation's doors is not the answer.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Immigration Flows and Homicide Trends''Chart tracks immigration flows and homicide trends from 1990 to 2004.(Sources by Pew Hispanic Center
 United States Department of Justice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); REFUGEES (70%); COCAINE (57%); PRISONS (57%) Crime and Criminals; Mexican-Americans; Blacks; Immigration and Refugees; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

PERSON: Robert J (Prof) Sampson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



216 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of Polygamy?

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
If gay marriage becomes legal, its opponents have been warning, the next step in America's moral deterioration will be legalized polygamy. These conservatives won't be happy with ''Big Love,'' the HBO series starting tomorrow night.
 This story of a husband with three wives in Utah will not terrify Americans. Polygamy doesn't come off as a barbaric threat to the country's moral fabric. It looks more like what it really is: an arrangement that can make sense for some people in some circumstances, but not one that could ever be a dangerous trend in America. 
 After watching the husband on the show struggle to pay for three households and watching his three wives struggle for his attention, the question that comes to mind is not how to keep polygamy illegal. The question is why we bother to ban something that takes so much work these days. 
 When polygamy was outlawed in the 19th century, the Supreme Court upheld the ban by citing the ''evil consequences'' of a practice that ''has always been odious among the northern and western nations of Europe.'' It dismissed polygamy as ''a feature of the life of Asiatic and of African people,'' as if that were reason enough to damn it.
 Yet an institution that has been around for so long must have had something going for it. Humans aren't as inclined to polygamy as some apes are -- we probably evolved as hunter-gatherers who mostly had one mate at a time -- but some form of polygamy has existed in the vast majority of cultures. 
 Some opponents of polygamy call it the exploitation of women by rich men, and that's true if the wives are coerced into the marriages. But many wives have willingly chosen it, like the three women on ''Big Love,'' who have married a successful businessman.
 These three wives, who live in adjacent houses, sound much like the women in polygamous marriages I've talked to in rural Africa. The African wives told me they had mixed feelings about the arrangement -- and their fellow wives -- but over all, they figured it was better to share one prosperous husband than to marry someone else without land, cows or a job.
 That's the way social scientists figure it, too. Polygamy isn't the cause of women's low status in traditional societies, but rather a consequence of their trying to move up. The biggest losers from polygamy are the poorer men who end up with no wives. Women benefit because polygamy increases their number of marriage prospects -- and in traditional societies, marriage is often the only way for a woman to improve her status.
 Even in those societies, polygamy is practiced by just a small minority because few men have enough resources to entice more than one wife. As a society modernizes and women become educated, they gain other economic options and become less and less willing to share a husband. Eventually polygamy is out of question for practically everyone, men and women. At that point, the monogamous majority can safely proclaim its moral superiority and outlaw the practice for everyone else.
 Critics say children would be better off growing up in a home with a full-time father, but a part-time one is better than what's in many homes today. The father in ''Big Love'' is more like Ward Cleaver than today's alpha males who've dumped a series of wives and families.
 Polygamy isn't necessarily worse than the current American alternative: serial monogamy.
 Elizabeth Joseph, a lawyer and journalist who was married to a polygamist in Utah, says her experience handling divorce cases made her appreciate the stability of her marriage. She also appreciated other perks, like the round-the-clock day care that enabled her to keep an unpredictable schedule at work and to relax when she came home.
 ''If I'm dog-tired and stressed out, I can be alone and guilt-free,'' she explained in a speech to the National Organization for Women. ''It's a rare day when all eight of my husband's wives are tired and stressed at the same time.'' She told the NOW audience that polygamy ''offers an independent women a real chance to have it all'' and represented ''the ultimate feminist lifestyle.'' 
 She won't persuade many American women, feminists or otherwise. But if a few consenting adults like her still want to practice polygamy, there's no reason to stop them. And if the specter of legalized polygamy is the best argument against gay marriage, let the wedding bells ring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); ANNULMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLYGAMY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WOMEN (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (50%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Marriages; Polygamy; Homosexuality; Divorce, Separations and Annulments 

PERSON: John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



217 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Employers Sharply Criticize Shift in Unionizing Method to Cards From Elections

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Above the photographs of Fidel Castro, Kim Jong Il of North Korea and an American union president, the full-page advertisement contains a provocative quotation: ''There is no reason to subject the workers to an election.''
 Below the photographs, the advertisement asks, ''Who said it?''
For the answer, readers are directed to a Web site, which explains that those words were uttered by Bruce S. Raynor, the union president and the leader of Unite Here, which represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers.
 In seeking to equate Mr. Raynor with foreign dictators, the business-backed group that ran the advertisement was trying to discredit the most successful strategy that unions have used to try to reverse a decades-long slide in membership. 
 That strategy is known as card checks, a process in which companies grant union recognition once a majority of workers sign cards saying they favor a union. Unions increasingly want to use this procedure to replace the traditional organizing method: secret-ballot elections overseen by the National Labor Relations Board.
 Many businesses oppose card checks because they say the procedure makes it much easier for unions to secure majority support, often giving management little chance to present its case against unionization. But unions say companies often prevent fair elections by firing and intimidating union supporters.
 And, labor leaders complain, elections often become so contentious that nearly half the time unions win, companies fail to sign collective bargaining agreements. Card checks lead much more easily to contracts, union leaders say.
 Card checks were used to sign up roughly 70 percent of the private-sector workers who joined unions last year, according to A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials. That compares with less than 5 percent two decades ago.
 Through card checks, 150,000 private-sector workers joined unions in 2005. Over the past year, the procedure has been used to unionize 4,600 workers at the Wynn Las Vegas hotel-casino, 5,000 janitors in Houston and 16,500 workers at Cingular, the cellphone company.
 In an interview this week, Mr. Raynor again maintained that it was better to use card checks than ''to subject workers to an election.''
 ''Under the National Labor Relations Act, the election process in the United States has turned into a meat grinder for workers,'' he said. ''Each year 20,000 workers are fired or retaliated against for supporting a union.'' With unions pushing ever harder for card checks, Richard Berman, executive director of the Center for Union Facts, the group that ran the advertisement, said the time was right for business to mount an offensive against them. 
 ''The fact is unions now say that as a general rule they don't want N.L.R.B. elections,'' Mr. Berman said.
 Mr. Raynor's union is one of five that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. over the past year. Though the two camps disagree on many issues, the labor federation's leaders have called for using card checks instead of elections.
 ''Elections just don't work,'' said Stewart Acuff, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing director. ''The process is too broken.''
 A study last year by professors at the University of Illinois at Chicago found that during unionization elections, 30 percent of employers fire pro-union workers and 49 percent threaten to close work sites if workers unionize.
 Critics of card checks say heavy-handed tactics are used in that process, too. Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia, who is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, is sponsoring legislation that would outlaw card checks. His bill has 81 co-sponsors.
 ''Union thugs are allowed to confront individual workers on the job and at their homes, and demand the worker sign a card giving the union exclusive rights to representation,'' Mr. Norwood wrote in an op-ed article in The Washington Times.
 Union leaders say that coercion is rare.
 The National Labor Relations Act gives private-sector workers the right to unionize through card checks or secret-ballot elections. But the act also gives employers the right to insist on elections. The act does not cover government employees.
 Labor unions are backing a bill that would give unions the right to use card checks while taking away the right of companies to insist on secret-ballot elections.
 The bill has 210 co-sponsors in the House and 42 in the Senate. But even supporters say it will probably not pass in this Congress because President Bush is likely to veto it.
 Meanwhile, unions are using various tactics to persuade companies to accept card checks and are also increasingly pressing employers to pledge not to fight unionization efforts.
 Sometimes unions use contract negotiations at one operation -- perhaps agreeing to productivity measures -- to get a company to agree to card checks at its other sites. More often, unions undertake confrontational campaigns to squeeze employers to agree to card checks. 
 To pressure Cintas, the giant uniform and laundry company, Unite Here has encouraged workers to bring lawsuits alleging pay violations and racial and sexual discrimination. Cintas has not given in, insisting that secret-ballot elections are fairer.
 At the Consolidated Biscuit bakery in McComb, Ohio, Bill Lawhorn said more than 70 percent of the workers had signed cards in favor of joining the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers Union when he led efforts to form a union in 2002. 
 Nonetheless, the union lost a secret-ballot election, 485 to 286, after Consolidated Biscuit conducted a vigorous anti-union campaign. Two years later a National Labor Relations Board judge found that managers had illegally spied on union supporters and had warned them that the bakery would go bankrupt if a union was voted in.
 Mr. Lawhorn was fired the day after the unionization vote. The labor board judge ordered him and six other workers reinstated, ruling that they were illegally fired for supporting a union. 
 The bakery has appealed. Mr. Lawhorn remains unemployed, hoping the appeal process will uphold his reinstatement.
 ''What they did here was un-American,'' he said. ''If we had card check, we'd have a union right now.''
 To support the fight against card checks, the United States Chamber of Commerce has established a Web site, secretballotprotection.com, that criticizes the process and praises elections as more democratic.
 Randel Johnson, the chamber's vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits, said card checks usually did not give workers a chance to hear about the downside of unions.
 ''If the unions think the law gives employers too much free rein to fight unions, that's a separate issue and a separate debate,'' he said. ''That's not a reason to replace the fairest process, secret-ballot elections.''
 Mr. Raynor sees it differently.
 ''A worker can join a church or synagogue or the Republican Party by signing a card,'' Mr. Raynor said. ''That's how people join organizations in the United States. The idea that workers can't join a union by signing their name is ludicrous.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Lawhorn was fired from a bakery in McComb, Ohio, after leading a unionization campaign there
 the union lost a secret-ballot election. (Photo by J.D. Pooley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CASINOS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Labor; Organized Labor; Elections; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (82%); UNITE HERE (57%) National Labor Relations Board

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (73%); KIM JONG IL (73%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



218 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Congressional Memo; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Setback to Bush on Ports Deal Casts a Shadow Over His Agenda

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David D. Kirkpatrick and Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
President Bush's inability to hold sway over his party on the ports deal involving Dubai suggests that he faces trouble keeping Republicans together on his major policy initiatives this year, including overhauling immigration laws, approving new trade pacts and locking in his tax cuts, lawmakers and aides said on Friday.
 They said Republicans who had tried to never send Mr. Bush a bill he would veto now saw themselves more as equal partners with the White House and would not shy from shaping legislation more to their liking, particularly with a difficult midterm election ahead. 
At the same time, Congressional Republicans are divided on many of the major issues. With Mr. Bush weakened, it is not clear whether he can unify his party sufficiently to win the string of substantial legislative victories that lawmakers on the ballot would like to take home in the fall.
 In the Senate, Republicans are distancing themselves from some of Mr. Bush's proposed spending and tax cuts. In both the House and the Senate, there are significant intraparty divisions over how to deal with illegal immigration, with lawmakers focused more on border controls than the administration is. Mr. Bush's call for new trade agreements could be endangered by the strong protectionist sentiment exposed by the controversy over the ports deal. And some Republicans are leery of Mr. Bush's push for nuclear cooperation with India.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, described the new stance toward the White House as ''issue specific.'' 
 ''What you see here is people within the president's party pushing back against the administration's view of executive power,'' Mr. Graham said. ''The political moment for the president is not good, but when it comes to sustaining the tax cuts in a permanent fashion, he will get the support he needs.''
 The White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, minimized such a rift, saying: ''Sometimes there may be disagreement, but there's much more that unites us. We have a proven record of working together to get things done.''
 Senior Congressional aides, asking not to be quoted by name so they could speak more candidly about the months ahead, were blunt, saying the decision to buck Mr. Bush on the port deal was a sign that the days of the White House's calling most of the policy shots were over.
 ''It is a signal given to the White House that no longer will Congressional Republicans stand idle if the administration wants some policy that will affect them in an election year,'' a senior Republican official said.
 Referring to the past promise to spare Mr. Bush from legislation he might not approve, another aide said, ''That declaration is now a dead letter.'' 
 Speaker J. Dennis Hastert sought on Friday to play down the break with Mr. Bush, saying the president and Congressional Republicans were largely in sync. 
 ''Now, we have had a difference of opinion with some second- or third-level people in the administration, especially over the port security thing,'' Mr. Hastert told reporters in a conference call to laud economic gains. ''We've had a difference of opinion, but we also got a good result out of it. And we'll join together with the administration to continue to pass both the budget and our agenda.'' 
 After being pushed off track by the port furor, the House and Senate will return to budget and spending issues, immigration policy, pension legislation and perhaps some effort on health care in the 100 days remaining in the session. 
 In the Senate, Republicans also intend to hold votes on the politically charged topics of same-sex marriage and flag burning as the leadership reaches out to its conservative base. And Congress is likely to rewrite the rules for reviewing foreign acquisitions of facilities that are significant to national security, citing major flaws in the process that came to light because of the scrutiny of the Dubai transaction.
 Members of both parties say they expect Republican leaders to do what they can to prevent their lawmakers from having to cast tough votes.
 ''What the Dubai proposal demonstrated is that the Republican leadership is going to go to great lengths from having any votes on controversial issues in the remaining months of the session,'' said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader.
 Mr. Manley said Democrats had ideas of their own and would try to force Republicans to vote on Democratic priorities, like the rising costs of health care, college tuition and energy. And they are planning to press for more spending on port security when the Senate takes up its proposed federal budget next week.
 The budget is one example of the Republican election-year approach. After struggling to wring nearly $40 billion in savings out of social programs last year, Senate Republicans are steering clear of additional Medicare cuts sought by President Bush, and some House Republicans are pressing their leadership to do the same.
 And while there is strong Republican backing for tax cuts, some lawmakers are resisting extensions of lower rates on investment income, worried about the image of approving tax breaks that would benefit the more affluent while holding down spending on most government programs.
 Lawmakers and aides say the level of Mr. Bush's strength on Capitol Hill is tied to his standing in public opinion polls, which in turn is related to the public perception of conditions in Iraq. Any progress there could strengthen Mr. Bush and give him greater influence over the House and Senate. 
 In the end, many Republicans say, Mr. Bush's power on Capitol Hill will rest on what he is proposing and whether they agree. ''When he is right on the issues,'' said Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, ''we will be with him.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The political moment for the president is not good,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, who says Republicans are challenging the administration on specific issues. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WEATHER (85%); VETO (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); APPROVALS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; United States International Relations; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; International Trade and World Market; Ships and Shipping ; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Dp World; Dp World

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (89%) David S Cloud; George W (Pres) Bush; Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush; Lindsey (Sen) Graham

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Dubai; Middle East; United Arab Emirates; Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006



219 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 5156 words

HEADLINE: Twelve Easy Pieces

BYLINE: By Jon Mooallem. 
Jon Mooallem is a writer living in San Francisco. He has written for Harper's, The New Yorker and The Believer.

 BODY:
Apples to Apples
 For years, suspicion has been growing in the orchards of the Wenatchee Valley in Washington State and in the food industry at large that fruit, nature's original hand-held convenience food, is simply too poorly designed for today's busy eater. The apple, for instance: whatever it has meant to Americans over the years -- from mom's pie to the little red schoolhouse -- getting our mouths around one has also apparently meant some unspoken aggravation. Next to a banana or a grape, it's a daunting strongbox of a fruit, prohibitively so for anyone with braces or dentures; and even if you can break in, there's no guarantee a given apple will eat as sweet as it looks. 
Nearly half of Americans now consume most of their meals away from home or on the go, utilizing an expedient fleet of Go-Gurts, drinkable soups and cereal bars, while bags of prewashed salad and baby carrots await us at home. Given how many foods we've been able to tweak or outright reinvent to fit into our harried lives, who could take seriously the Granny Smith -- which, not unlike the bayonet or the daguerreotype, is by contemporary standards a cumbersome and unreliable technology? What appeal could an apple have left but nostalgia, the kind of thing you'd find at Restoration Hardware beside a galvanized watering can? 
 ''A bowl of apples is like a piece of art,'' says Tony Freytag, marketing director at Crunch Pak, an apple-processing company. ''It's display. People won't touch it. But you put out a tray of cut-up apples -- that's food.'' 
 Since helping found Crunch Pak in 2000, Freytag has become one pioneer in a rapidly growing industry: packaging bags of ordinary-looking, fresh slices of apples that, bathed in an all-natural flavorless sealant, won't turn brown or lose their crisp for up to three weeks. Last year, McDonald's stocked 54 million pounds of presliced apples, to sell with caramel dip or in salads, and this increased visibility boosted enthusiasm for them in school cafeterias and among time-strapped, health-conscious parents nationwide. Crunch Pak now slices and packs apples under its own name for Wal-Mart and nearly a dozen other chains, under the in-house brand at Whole Foods and for the organic bagged-salad giant Earthbound Farm. In loose one-pound bags (about $2.99), eight-packs of two-ounce snack pouches (about $3.99) or six-ounce cupholder-ready canisters (about $1.99), they have slipped onto refrigerated shelves among packages of herbs and cantaloupe cubes.
 What's astounding is how little these apples ask of us, particularly the nearly two-thirds of us who claim we'd eat more fruit if it didn't go bad ''too soon'' -- meaning, presumably, before we wished it would. Now open your fridge after 17, 18, 21 days of neglect, and you will find the pre-sliced modern apple abiding: a bag of pristine white crescents, still smiling. In short, these are the most utilitarian apples mankind has ever built.
 Not since the canneries of the early 20th century have food processors sought merely to preserve perishables. Processing foods now means redesigning them, making them easier to eat for a population that is steadily less willing to go to any trouble at all. Given the childhood obesity epidemic and the longstanding economic troubles of America's apple growers, boosting the apple's performance so that it could, as an industry observer explained, ''stand up to ordinary use,'' was a doubly urgent project. By making a healthful, fresh fruit that looks and acts more like a bag of chips, a handful of companies like Crunch Pak may have finally figured out a way to compete with the hassle-free junk foods that blazed into this era of hyperconvenience. Some marketers say that the reformation of our venerable apple -- and the sense that this improvement was necessary -- suggest that we may soon buy most of our produce this way. Presliced plums, celery, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, mangoes and star fruits are all in production.
 Crunch Pak was one of the first companies that labored to bring the new apple on line. Each found early on that what can be done casually at home -- slicing an apple and squeezing lemon juice on it -- is maddeningly difficult to pull off in a factory. The anti-browning bath is only one movement in a grand symphony of technologies at work. For nearly two decades, teams of food scientists, engineers and can-do businessmen struggled to pin down the apple, while the apple skirted and ducked them at every turn. They zigged, the apple zagged. Clearing one hurdle only brought more into view, and even now the particulars of production must be reassessed and rejiggered daily. The apple, Freytag told me when we first met, ''is a moving target.''
 Freytag, a 54-year-old, broad-shouldered Texan, stepped out into the central Washington heat last August from Crunch Pak's refrigerated packing facility, an expressionless gray concrete hangar just off the town of Cashmere's American-flag-lined thoroughfare. He had made an unlikely transition into fruit after years of product-development work for retailers like Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue. He likes to build things, to solve things, and he often talks about slicing apples as an ''equation'' -- a matrix of ''variables'' and ''commonalities'' that may never be fully controlled but, with enough persistence, can be made adequately algorithmic. 
 Throughout the Wenatchee Valley behind us, the first apples, Galas, were rioting into ripeness. Soon they'd arrive at Crunch Pak, and immediately, their vital signs would be taken: sugars, starches, internal pressure in pounds per square inch. The company must understand each crop's singular specifications in the same way a prizefighter studies the height, weight and reach of his opponent. The apple's wildness, so to speak, must be thoroughly assessed before the faintly Rube Goldbergian machinery goes about transforming it into something more sophisticated -- an apple in 12 slices, with a compelling, albeit elusive, advantage. 
 But what precisely makes cutting up a piece of fruit worth the tremendous saga that preceded it? Why, after thousands of years of eating apples, are we losing our patience for them, and where, if not at the apple, will it stop? Strangely, this is one puzzle that the characteristically industrious Freytag seemed uninterested or unable to solve. 
 ''I had a real problem in the beginning, as a consumer, paying $3 for a bag of lettuce when I knew that lettuce cost 89 cents a head,'' he told me, seeming to venture an explanation. ''And yet we all did it,'' he said, and left it at that.

Snackability
 As soon as you slice into an apple, the apple mobilizes against you, swiftly and on many fronts. Chemical signals are broadcast, ramping up its production of the hormone ethylene, which encourages ripening, and increasing the rate at which the apple absorbs oxygen and gives off carbon dioxide -- just as a human's breath will quicken when a person is injured. 
 The knife edge has meanwhile ruptured the architecture of countless cells. Substances normally compartmentalized within the fruit suddenly spill out and intermingle. Freed enzymes seep into cell walls, softening them. Little by little, like moisture in the walls of a house, this enfeebles the entire apple. Phytochemicals called phenols, the wealth of which make apples so good for us, are also loosed. So is an enzyme called polyphenol oxidase. Inevitably the two meet. Their reaction begets others, producing a chain of acids that clump together and coagulate into other acids called polyphenols. The polyphenols are brown and unappetizing. Rapidly, they occupy more and more of the flesh. The apple, left absent-mindedly on the counter when the phone rang or the baby started crying, has now efficiently disfigured itself. It is spectacularly good at this. 
 With no way to tame this mayhem -- to stop a wounded apple from ''turning its artillery on itself,'' as James Gorny, a food scientist, put it recently -- the apple industry was unable to get in on the baby-carrot and bagged-lettuce booms of the mid-90's. Most anti-browning treatments left sliced apples with a sour taste or had names like ''4-hexyl resorcinol,'' which would muddy the fruit's biggest selling point, its wholesome image. 
 ''We studied this at the Apple Commission in the 80's,'' says Steve Lutz, a second-generation apple man who headed the Washington Apple Commission until 2000. ''At the time, it was sort of like the Holy Grail: if we could just figure out how to slice these goddarn things.'' 
 Throughout the last century, food makers have used convenience, or at least its appearance, to add value to small-margin commodities like apples. In the 1960's, new processing plants in Washington State made frozen juice concentrate from the boxcars of unmarketable fruits that growers had dumped in the Columbia River each year. Such ''value-added products'' were right in line with the postwar bounty of timesaving foodstuffs emblematized by the TV dinner. 
 But with the fracturing of the family meal, innovations now center on ease of use, not ease of preparation. True convenience now means being eaten with one hand, no utensils, outside the home and alone. Glass jars of applesauce gave way to single-serving snack packs; more recently, as with Mott's ''Fruit Blasters'' and Birds Eye ''Squeezle-Sauz,'' to applesauce pressed like epoxy from tubes.
 Industry insiders now talk about elevating a food's ''snackability,'' which, in short, means engineering it with enough convenience that picking up a piece and putting it in your mouth becomes an almost perfunctory transaction. A snackable food is crumbless and fussless. It is most likely broken into bite-size pieces, encouraging us to eat more. If the food's form itself doesn't imply a portion size -- the way, say, one apple or one cupcake does -- there's no obvious signal to stop. This triggers what one marketer, Barb Stuckey, calls ''mindless munching'' -- the hand's almost hypnotic back and forth between bag and mouth. Stuckey also explains that plucking at individualized little pieces of something is just ''more fun'' than dealing with a chunkier whole. So pretzels are cut down into stumpy pretzel bits, doughnuts broken into doughnut holes and regular-size carrots scrubbed and lathed into several ''baby'' ones. Even the Kit Kat -- a candy bar designed to be easily handled in the first place -- is now available as a bag of smaller Kit Kat Bites. 
 Still, in light of the incident in Eden, the proposition that a whole apple isn't a particularly tempting item to reach for and bite into may sound absurd. It is not. Research done by the Washington Apple Commission and Mantrose-Haueser, the company that eventually solved the browning issue, sought to establish, empirically, just this. One study showed Florida school students eating slices twice as often as whole apples. In Nevada, elementary-school kids ate nearly triple the fruit when offered apple slices over whole -- and this study even measured how much of each ended up in the garbage, since a whole apple might be tossed after a few bites. 
 ''This all started with children,'' Freytag says. ''I think what parents saw is, here's some piece of fruit my child will actually eat.'' Every parent seems to understand his or her small-mouthed, small-handed child won't get very far with a craggy Red Delicious, and Lutz says that everyone knew that ''if it came down to the consumer standing there, cutting it up themselves, putting some lemon juice on it and putting it in a Ziploc bag, they're just not going to do it.'' More troubling still, research suggests that unless kids develop a taste for apples early, roughly between the ages of 2 and 11, they may never. But children with baby teeth may have trouble eating a whole apple. And with the American Association of Orthodontists recommending that kids get their first consultation by age 7, that all-important window in which to hook people for life was being truncated at both ends. 
 The dream of a presliced apple gained particular urgency during the economic free fall of the 1998-99 crop year. The crop from 1998 was the largest to date, up about 15 percent to 277 million bushels. Yet overall U.S. consumption of apples had been flat for a generation. (Americans eat less than half as many pounds of apples yearly as Europeans do.) Export markets were drying up, and cheaper Chinese apples were coming in to compete. Meanwhile, new exotic-seeming varieties like Braeburns and Galas were driving Red Delicious prices down. They were also refining tastes. A 1999 Associated Press article cited complaints that ''the Red Delicious apple -- the symbol of Washington's apple industry -- too often is about as delicious as a wad of cotton.'' 
 Even without a way to solve the browning issue, Lutz pitched the Subway sandwich chain on slices served with caramel dip, just like the Apple Dippers that McDonald's sells today. He called them Submersibles and proposed, naively, shipping Subway boxes of whole apples and installing a wall-mounted slicer in each franchise -- burdening the kid behind the counter with cutting them. ''We lost out to cookies,'' he says. 
 The commission also introduced a campaign featuring a scooter-riding superhero, Apple Guy, who in one TV commercial delivered energizing apples to a weary father and daughter at a zoo. Apple Guy struggled to convince a demographic that the commission dubbed ''Stressed Moms'' that the apple -- as is -- was in fact a convenient, snackable snack. He failed.
 Clearly all fruit was now competing with processed snacks that, over time, had swayed people's expectations. No matter how convenient the old apple was, it wasn't branded correctly or sending the right signals. No one had done anything to it, vouched for it or made it just for you.
 ''You're being outspent 100 to 1 by items that are prepackaged, easy to eat and also totally consistent,'' Lutz says. (According to one study, in 2000, apples, bananas and oranges together accounted for less than 6 percent of the $80 billion snack-food market.) ''I mean, with apples, you're growing them on a tree. You can only put out what Mother Nature gives you.'' He adds that the path from orchard to eater is fraught with potential stresses. Washington growers have to pick all their apples in late summer and fall. They hold them in oxygen-depleted storage rooms and then trickle them, via various distribution centers, into supermarkets throughout the rest of the year. There's no way for anyone to know how a particular apple has weathered all of this without biting into it. And a bright red apple that greets the teeth like a sponge amounts to a kind of betrayal. 
 ''People were quite discriminating and quite punitive,'' says Desmond O'Rourke, an economist who has studied apple marketing for four decades, describing consumer studies done at the time. ''If they got an apple they didn't like, they wouldn't buy apples again'' for some time. It seemed one bad apple really could spoil the whole bunch. No one, after all, walks down the chip-and-cracker aisle squeezing bags of Fritos to see which one is best.

Making the Cut
 A few mornings after Christmas, Freytag and I looked up at the hulking assemblage of chutes, belts, flumes and fast-moving parts that take up a fourth of Crunch Pak's slicing room. Men and women in purple coats, hard hats and masks were positioned at the opposite end, sorting apple pieces. 
 It wasn't until we climbed a ladder onto a little platform that I could see them: a slow, thick traffic of apples entering the room through a stainless-steel canal of frigid water, 10 feet off the ground. They were hefty and red-speckled, their tops bobbing in a tight phalanx. The odd one sported a few leaves. 
 These were Galas, which, along with Pink Ladies, Crunch Pak sells simply as ''Sweet.'' (Granny Smiths are labeled ''Tart.'') They'd been picked around the time of my last visit in August and sealed in storage ever since. This had slowed, but not completely halted, their ripening. 
 The apple spends its entire life ripening, slowly converting its starches into sugars and making its solids soluble. The exact chemistry inside even apples of the same variety will be different on every day of the season. And once picked, Freytag explained, ''that apple is still a living, breathing thing. Everything from the cellular structure, to the sugars, the starches -- when you store it, nothing in that apple will stay the same.'' 
 All this variability makes it extremely tough to convert those thousands of idiosyncratic fruits into baggies of uniform, ultrareliable snacks. Over the years, Crunch Pak has been building a sweeping apple database. As the company constantly monitors and tweaks everything in the slicing room -- the anti-browning treatments, water temperature, air temperature -- it correlates those variables to the condition of the slices churned out. Entering any bag's 11-digit code gives a snapshot of how the processing floor was configured at the time it was sealed. The company is laboring, like a cryptographer, to decode the apple and predict with greater and greater confidence how any given one will react. 
 ''It's all part of the equation,'' Freytag told me, shouting over the din of rushing water and the machinery's thwacks. ''We look at the apples and have to figure out, what are the physiological issues inside that apple? And what are we going to have to do to sustain and accommodate them?'' Among other things, an apple's specific chemistry dictates the optimal concentration of NatureSeal, the blend of vitamin C and calcium that finally made the nonbrowning apple slice a practicable proposition. 
 Though it may sound like glorified lemon juice, NatureSeal is the product of a decade of U.S.D.A. and private research. It's a flavorless white powder that, mixed with water, penetrates a few millimeters beneath the surface of a cut apple. (According to Crunch Pak, the sliced apples don't lose any nutritional value and in fact NatureSeal ends up fortifying each apple with 200 percent of the daily requirement of Vitamin C.) The ascorbic acid in NatureSeal searches out and bonds to the loose phenols, blocking them off from the polyphenol oxidase enzyme and interrupting the browning reaction. The calcium salts work like cement to stiffen the fruit's softening cell walls. All of this happens inside the apple, so the solution leaves no perceptible layer or shell on the surface -- unlike, say, the high-sheen shellac on Goobers, or the substrate on time-released pain relievers, both of which NatureSeal's producer, Mantrose-Haueser, also makes. Freytag first heard about NatureSeal while trying to figure out a way to slice pears for a packer in Oregon. When he received a sample at his house, the first thing he did was stick his finger in the powder and lick it. Surprisingly, there was no taste. Eventually, he sliced and treated some apples in his kitchen, then stuck them in the refrigerator in his garage to see how long they'd last. 
 ''My son was 20-something, and he wasn't living with us,'' he remembered. ''He'd just come over to eat. And I found that the apples were disappearing. He ate some at one point that were, like, 30 days old. So I said, 'How were the apples?''' Here Freytag affected a slightly stoned-sounding obliviousness: '''Great, Dad. No problem.''' 
 Soon enough, with the brown stuff out of the way, would-be processors could peer inside the split-open apple and see other problems awaiting them. Crunch Pak initially set up shop in a plant also used to slice onions, not realizing a cut apple soaks up odor like a sponge. The facility Freytag and I were now standing in was the company's third successively larger one since going into production in 2001. 
 The only precedent for nearly everything being done to the apples in the busy room was slicing apples for pie filling. Ugliness is of no consequence inside a pie, and the existing machinery wasn't averse to browbeating apples to cheaply and quickly dispatch them into the world's ovens. 
 Gradually each fresh-cut company had to retrofit or build from scratch a kinder network of apparatuses to coddle the apple: water flumes replaced conveyor belts, for example, and the drop height on the bagging equipment -- originally used to bag lettuce -- was reduced. Because competitors often work independently with equipment makers to address problems, the whole industry is now rife with stubbornly guarded secrets. It took four months and a nondisclosure agreement before Freytag would even let me see Crunch Pak cut some fruit. 
 He now reached to a bulky furnacelike compartment of the slicing machine and forcefully pulled its two panels apart. Inside, pistons fired and, centered in this confusion, six shining apples atop six separate cylinders spun furiously on their axes while the entire mechanism supporting them rotated. The whole thing resembled some science-fiction rib cage, as if the small, whirling apples inside were the organic parts powering the entire machine. 
 We were watching Galas be cored, but it was happening so rapidly that I had to take Freytag's word for it. Slices and stray seed-cell divots fell from a chute on our left in quick batches. Each was an apple, sliced in 12 segments, the optimum width to sustain crispness longer. Each of the six machines sheers roughly 90 fruits per minute, 16 hours a day, six days a week, and feeds them to tanks of NatureSeal at the end of the line. 
 A lot is at stake in the split second the apple is sliced. A ragged cut rips open more cells and leads to more browning. Few producers slice Red Delicious, since the irregular humps on its blossom end prevent the machine from clutching it snugly. ''A nice Granny Smith, or a Gala or Fuji,'' Ben Zamore, a sales manager at Atlas Pacific, the company that manufactures the slicing machines, says, ''those are beautiful, well-shaped fruits.'' Meanwhile, much has been done, clandestinely, to hone the blade edges. Atlas regularly tests the efficiency of its blades at a lab at Colorado State University. Freytag wouldn't tell me anything about Crunch Pak's blades.
 Cleaving an apple open obliterates its natural safeguard against contamination -- its skin -- and exposes the moist, absorptive surfaces inside. Since a cut apple browns to kill a layer of itself and shield the rest, NatureSeal similarly weakens its natural defenses.
 ''Once you've cut that apple open, you are challenging the integrity of the fruit,'' explains Richard Olsen of Tree Top, the nation's largest apple processor and the company supplying McDonald's with its slices. (Crunch Pak early on turned down a contract with McDonald's, wary in part of growing too fast. The company now dices apples for Arby's.) Anyone who slices the apple must therefore take responsibility for it -- become the apple's immune system. Air in Crunch Pak's slicing room must be purified and pressurized. Everyone wears latex and plastic, and even I had to walk across a funny platform of spinning yellow shoe brushes before entering. With apples skating through a production line and intermixing, an infectious agent like listeria in one could put an entire day's output at risk. 
 Freytag likes to say: ''When we first got into this business, what we were told is: 'O.K., an apple is an apple is an apple. And you take this solution, and you put an apple in it, and -- Bingo! You've got sliced applesthat don't turn brown.' If we knew then what we know now, we might not be in this business.'' Clearly this is more a boast than a confession. 

Disgust
 Freytag conducted Crunch Pak's first market research at Little League games. After dispensing samples, he would ask parents why they would pay extra for what effectively boils down to an apple-chopping service. He claims that the answer he heard most often was ''Because I'd rather be here at the game watching my son play baseball than at home slicing apples.'' 
 Oddly, apple slicing was being denigrated as an unthinkably oppressive undertaking, a kind of punitive kitchen duty, evoking the G.I. obscured behind mounds of to-be-peeled potatoes. 
 ''You look at the number of meals being eaten in automobiles,'' Steve Lutz says (research by John Nihoff, a Culinary Institute of America food historian, estimates that 19 percent of all meals or snacks in this country are eaten there), ''and you'd think the apple is convenient already. But when you finish it, you have a core to deal with. You have waste. Plus, once you've started an apple, you're sort of committed to eating the whole thing.'' 
 ''I don't think consumers are very comfortable leaving a half-eaten apple lying around their car or their house,'' Lutz adds. ''I don't know of a single instance, and I can't imagine a single instance where a mother has said to her child, 'I know you can't eat this whole apple, but take two bites and we'll take the rest home and put it in your lunch for tomorrow.''' 
 This is a peculiar phenomenon of the food industry's escalating arms race of snackability: that once the minor hassles of a given food are eliminated, its original version can feel positively insufferable. ''I call it the Starbucks effect,'' Lutz says. ''Once you get used to Starbucks, you can't go back to Folgers. Even though you might have fond memories of Folgers.''
 Stranger still, I found, if we've become less willing to put up with the old apple, we may also be slightly less willing to stomach it. 
 Paul Rozin is a cultural psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania and, though he may not introduce himself this way at parties, an authority on disgust. In even our brief phone conversation not long ago, Rozin assured me repeatedly that he personally enjoys biting into a big apple. He enjoys it very much, in fact. But he immediately intuited why others wouldn't and why, after snacking, we're increasingly more comfortable holding a spent plastic bag than an apple core.
 ''Because the bag doesn't have any of you in it!'' he shot out, as though it were obvious. ''The core is an extension of your tongue and your mouth, and the bag is not.'' We, it turns out, are the thing we find most disgusting. 
 ''As the world gets more and more cleaned up of these things, and as you get highly sensitive to disgust, a bitten piece of food in your hand is not too nice,'' he posited. An eater of the whole apple must, with each bite, readdress his mouth to ''the unsavoriness of the bitten edge in front of you.'' But eating apple slices means treating yourself to a clean, unspoiled, appealingly geometric shape every few seconds.
 Apples do not feature prominently in the literature of disgust -- not yet, at least. Meat is generally considered the most potentially disgusting food, since turning a dead carcass into an unthreatening, appetizing meal involves a nuanced psychological maneuver. (''No one who went into a supermarket would know that beef is from a cow,'' Rozin elaborated. ''We've completely sanitized it.'')
 Analyzing a group of studies in the 1940's, the seminal disgust-psychologist Andras Angyal noted that, with the exception of a few slimy things, ''no plant product was reported as disgusting.'' But given the metropolis of slickly packaged, processed foods we've built up around the apple, perhaps even a fruit might now seem crude in the same way as a raw pork tenderloin. Might the idyllic apple, too, need sanitizing, civilizing?
 ''That would be the next step,'' Rozin assented, later adding, ''We all breathe each other's air. But if there were a way not to, I'm sure people would avoid doing it.''

Savage Tastes
 ''It takes a savage or wild taste to appreciate a wild fruit,'' Henry David Thoreau wrote. In ''Wild Apples,'' he went so far as to claim that a crabby, uncultivated apple can be enjoyed only if it's eaten outdoors. It will actually taste different indoors. ''What is sour in the house,'' he wrote, ''a bracing walk makes sweet.'' 
 We, like Thoreau, are used to eating while walking, though getting up and changing locations to accommodate a piece of fruit is laughably antithetical to the way we snack now. We process our food so we don't have to adapt to its eccentricities. We wedge foods into our lifestyles, and as they get crowded out or accelerated past, we give them the tools to catch us on the fly. But while a cookie or a Cheez Doodle can be reined in without much argument, an apple -- like most healthful alternatives -- has a will of its own.
 ''An apple is like us,'' Crunch Pak's general manager, Craig Carson, explained after my tour. ''It's alive. If we don't handle it correctly, we can kill it.''
 Carson is a slim and serious-looking man who has been growing apples in the Wenatchee Valley for 25 years. He doesn't expect sliced apples to dominate in nearly the same way bagged salad has overtaken the lettuce business, he said. Cutting apples is simply one way to help growers, to make a healthy food more versatile, more likely to be eaten. Talking with him, I began to wonder if processing apples is not so unlike growing them. After all, Thoreau was offended that orchardists cultivated only a few varieties from nature's virtually infinite stock. And growers have long thinned out their boughs to promote fewer, bigger apples rather than the many, smaller ones more advantageous to the plant species. 
 This is to say that our integrity and the apple's have always been at odds, and historically, we haven't been the ones to budge. As our tastes skew in more unexpected directions, we expect more from our apples and must retrofit them accordingly or transform them. As a man named Welcome Sauer, who ran the Apple Commission's consumer research, remembers realizing: ''What we were selling with the fresh-cut apple slice was not an apple anymore. What we were selling was a guilt-free snack food.'' It may be that companies like Crunch Pak are simply furthering the domestication of the apple, just more assertively and invasively than anyone has before. 
 Around the time of my visit in December, a new Nielsen report showed Crunch Pak controlling more than half of the presliced-apple market and the whole category vaulting up 300 percent from the previous year. 
 ''When you see numbers like that,'' Freytag had told me, ''I think back to when people would look at me like I was from Mars and say: 'Why would I want a sliced apple? I've got a whole apple' -- and those were their exact words.'' 
 It was clear they'd come around as bagged apple slices smoothly exited the cutting room on a conveyor belt through the wall. There, more purple-clad employees stood waiting to box them up. Sufficiently enhanced, the apples were now bound for places like Costco and Albertsons and out into what -- standing in the contraption-filled clean room on the opposite side of that wall -- Freytag had maybe generously called ''the normal world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Apple Reinventors: Tony Freytag with some of his team at a Crunch Pak plant. Their mission: to make sliced apples avoid the tempation to brown and spoil.
 Bobbing Gently: Water flumes replaced conveyor belts so that apples could be coddled into their presliced state. (Photographs by Phillip Toledano for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONVENIENCE FOODS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MFG (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



220 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: One Eye on the Fed, and the Other on Your Portfolio

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
LIKE a crazed doomsayer who keeps changing the date on his poster foretelling the end of the world, economists have been saying since last summer that the Federal Reserve is about to stop raising interest rates. They will be correct eventually, so how should investors in the stock market prepare for the event?
 When interest rates top out, the stock market typically rallies in gratitude that credit conditions will become no worse, investment advisers note. But uncertainty about when the current tightening cycle will end, and concern that a rate peak will also herald slower growth in the economy and corporate earnings, leave much difference of opinion about what portfolio adjustments to make -- and when to make them.
In times when there is less growth to go around, investors look for businesses that can sustain earnings momentum. The most common places to find them are in stable-growth sectors like health care and consumer staples, or in industries (like some in technology) that are experiencing long-term upward trends that should leave them largely immune from economic swings. 
 Whatever investors decide to buy, they must also decide when to pull the trigger. Before taking significant steps, some fund managers say that they are waiting for confirmation that the Fed has raised rates for the last time in this cycle. Others have already started their moves, including Walter T. McCormick, head of the value equity management group at Evergreen Investments.
 ''We're not perfectly clear on when they're going to stop,'' Mr. McCormick said. ''What makes me hesitate in terms of saying the Fed is about to finish is there are signs that the economy is strong. As long as growth is strong, the Fed will have to be vigilant.''
 Nevertheless, he said, ''we know we're getting near the end,'' and he is already in the midst of his portfolio rearrangement.
 By contrast, Henry J. Herrmann, chief executive of Waddell & Reed, the asset management firm, is prepared to wait for concrete indications that the rate cycle has peaked. He said he was putting off making significant adjustments to his holdings.
 ''We're not, because I don't know when the Fed's going to stop tightening,'' he said. He agreed, though, with Mr. McCormick that ''the economy is stronger than many people think.''
 The central bank, he said, ''is likely to pause, not stop,'' thereby faking out the markets. ''Maybe nine months from now it will be a different story,'' he said, ''but making big portfolio bets on the idea that the Fed's stopping is misplaced.''
 Fund managers of a more sporting disposition must wager first on whether the Fed will be shown to have raised interest rates by just the right amount or by too much. In the first case, the end of tightening ''is potentially a catalyst for the market to start to move considerably higher,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors.
 The right bet, then, is ''to position yourself to take on a little more risk with a rotation back into higher-beta names,'' or stocks that move in the same direction as the market but with more volatility, he said.
 Mr. Koesterich says that such stocks tend to be found in technology industries, especially those like communication equipment that depend on strong corporate buying, and in sectors involved in building industrial machinery and infrastructure. Financial stocks should also benefit, he said, noting that they have been resilient in recent months as investors try to anticipate the final rate increase.
 He stressed that the selection of these sectors is based on the assumptions that ''we get a soft landing, with core inflation under control and a continuation of the economic expansion,'' and that the Fed has not made one rate increase too many.
 Those are assumptions he is willing to make. ''So far,'' he said, ''there aren't really any signs of an imminent collapse of the economy that would suggest that the expansion won't continue in the intermediate term.'' 
 Mr. McCormick, at Evergreen, likes several sectors that Mr. Koesterich mentioned, and he is concentrating on larger companies within them. A downshift in economic growth will have a comparatively sharp impact on smaller companies, he said.
 ''Large-capitalization growth stocks would appear to be relatively attractive,'' he said. ''They will only begin to outperform significantly when the slowdown in growth in the below-large-cap sectors begins to pinch, but then the market will pay more attention to large caps.''
 Mr. McCormick is paying particular attention to large technology stocks. That is where he has been focusing his post-tightening investments. Two recent additions to Evergreen's portfolios are Cisco Systems and Qualcomm.
 Cisco, the big supplier of technology infrastructure, is ''beginning to click on an increasing number of cylinders,'' he said, and Qualcomm offers a chance to benefit from growth in the mobile phone industry, a business in the ''sweet spot'' of its cycle.
 Qualcomm makes a component used in many handsets that eases the signal transfer from one tower to the next when a caller is on the move. The 4 percent royalty that Qualcomm receives on each handset sold with the device makes the stock especially appealing, Mr. McCormick said.
 Qualcomm is one of many tech stocks held by Robert E. Turner, manager of the Turner Core Growth fund. He views the semiconductor and telecom equipment industries as particularly good vehicles for profiting from an end to Fed rate increases.
 His selections in the first group include Marvell Technology and Broadcom, which he described as his ''two biggest overweights,'' as well as Advanced Micro Devices and Micron Technology. Two that he says he does not hold are Intel and Texas Instruments.
 ''Semiconductor demand is extremely strong,'' he said, because of the proliferation of iPods, BlackBerries and other high-tech consumer gear; meanwhile, he said, ''tech capacity has not really ramped up much.''
 The appeal of telecom equipment makers lies in the prospect of more spending by businesses. His holdings in this area include Alcatel, Tellabs, JDS Uniphase and PMC-Sierra.
 A THIRD sector he favors is biotechnology. He called Genentech and Genzyme ''quintessential growth companies whose earnings should grow, even if the economy slows down.''
 Rick Drake, co-manager of the ABN Amro Growth fund, likes one biotech stock, Amgen, for its ''tremendous product pipeline,'' but other post-tightening picks are concentrated in financial services and such stable-growth sectors as retailing and health care.
 ''In the economic environment we're in,'' Mr. Drake said, ''we think investors will look more at consistent-type growth companies'' when the Fed stops. He added that ''they benefit from a good economy, but they do not need a real strong economy to do well.''
 Mr. Drake's picks include Fifth Third Bancorp, the Kohl's chain of department stores and St. Jude Medical and Medtronic, makers of medical equipment. 
 He said he would avoid businesses that depend on continued increases in commodity prices. These have been ''driving the economy for the last couple of years,'' he said. ''There's not much money left to be made in the commodity or energy sector.''
 Mr. Hermann, at Waddell & Reed, would appreciate Mr. Drake's wariness. The conventional view is that the sooner the Fed stops tightening, the better, but Mr. Hermann warned that there was such a thing as too soon. ''If the Fed stopped now, people would be surprised and the reaction might be, 'Oh, my goodness, things are weaker than we thought,' '' he said. ''Probably in that case defensive stocks -- high-dividend payers, stable, large-cap companies -- would outperform.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Evergreen Investments has added large technology stocks like Cisco Systems to some of its portfolios. Above, two Cisco engineers worked on a router in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); WADDELL & REED INC (52%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%); WDR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



221 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2858 words

HEADLINE: The New Sao Paulo

 BODY:
IT'S a sultry January day in Sao Paulo, and dozens of people are dining beneath a gargantuan fig tree with dramatic horizontal limbs reminiscent of ''Jurassic Park.'' An entire restaurant has been built around this 130-year-old tree, and the expansive glass-ceilinged patio is so ingeniously constructed that it's hard to tell whether they are sitting inside or out. 
 Families and couples can sit for hours in Figueira Rubaiyat, a popular gathering spot for the traditional Brazilian Sunday lunch. They'll snack on hot, puffy cheese rolls and drink caipirinhas, an icy national cocktail made with limes and a sugar cane liquor called cachaca. They will devour thick, charred steaks and bountiful seafood casseroles, enjoying the pleasures of summer in the city and the feel of the warm sun on their bare arms.
Sao Paulo's sane and sensual side is not always so easy to find. At first glance, this sprawling city of 10 million -- the cultural and economic capital of Brazil -- appears to be a hard-edged urban jungle a place whose seemingly haphazard design, a bit like Los Angeles, can make it hard for the outsider to negotiate. Sao Paulo is no Paris, Rio or Buenos Aires -- cities where you can just show up and fall in love on a first pass-through. 
 Even on Rua Oscar Freire, the narrow boulevard that is often compared to Rodeo Drive, a visitor would not immediately be seduced by the fashion boutiques with unfamiliar names. One of the most original and enchanting stores on the street, Clube Chocolate, is so chic that it has no display windows and is so exclusive that security guards flank the heavy wooden door that hides the glorious, airy interior. How would you know that inside there's a bright, three-story atrium with floor-to-ceiling palm trees and a sandy beach that you reach by descending a polished steel circular staircase?
 Sao Paulo does not go out of its way to cater to foreign tourists, and this can be a blessing. At restaurants, you will not find yourself surrounded by Germans, Australians and other Americans. At the flea markets, you will not see couples wearing fanny packs and taking photographs. At museums and churches, you will not find crowds. You get to experience life undiluted and witness a South American city in transition.
 One gets a sense of the city's determination to become a player on the international hipster circuit at three boutique hotels: the Emiliano, the Unique and the Fasano. When I arrived at the Emiliano on a Friday at noon, after a 45-minute cab ride from the airport, my room was not ready. Before I could settle into the bright, minimalist lobby, with its avant-garde armchairs wrapped in hundreds of yards of golden rope by the Campana brothers -- the Brazilian duo whose work has been shown at the Museum of Modern Art in New York-- I was escorted by one of the good-looking desk clerks to the glass-enclosed rooftop spa. He handed me a fluffy white bathrobe and white Havaianas, Brazil's famous rubber flip-flops, encouraging me to soak in the wooden hot tubs, cool off in the marble plunge pool or take a shower. I did all three.
 I had decided to come to Sao Paulo for a long weekend because it may be one of the easiest overnight flights around. I took a nonstop nine-hour American Airlines flight out of New York at around 10 p.m. and arrived in Sao Paulo in the late morning. (In January, when I went, Sao was three hours ahead of New York; the difference can vary from one to three hours depending on shifting Daylight Savings times.) Dinner and breakfast were served close to take off and landing, so I could sleep for nearly seven solid hours and wake up ready for a full day. 
 My room at the Emiliano was soothing and sybaritic: white Egyptian cotton sheets and six pillows of different firmness; an Eames lounge chair upholstered in an oatmeal fabric; a wall of honey-colored wood that hid closets and two Sub-Zero drawer refrigerators stocked with drinks; and a large bathroom with a view of neighboring penthouses. As the guest services manager tried to teach me how to work all the lighting controls (which I never mastered), she told me she could send a butler to unpack my bags. (I declined.)
 From the posh to the prosaic, Sao Paulo can sometimes seem like a European capital. There's the Metropolitan Cathedral, a building with Gothic and Byzantine elements said to hold 8,000 worshipers, the 1911 Municipal Theater inspired by the Paris Opera, art museums whose buildings are as noteworthy as their exhibitions and a downtown public food hall where everything from baby pigs to hot peppers are displayed in their stalls like art installations. 
 The Pinacoteca do Estado is an outstanding example of how a historic structure can be preserved and turned into a 21st-century museum. Stripped down to the bricks as if it were an ancient ruin, the 1897 building now has a series of interior skylit courtyards with sculptures by Rodin and Niki de Saint-Phalle and an impressive collection ranging from 19th-century landscapes to 20th-century abstracts by pioneering modernists such as Waldemar Cordeiro and Willys de Castro. 
 Paulistas are very proud of their modernist architecture, especially the Copan, a 1950 apartment building designed by Oscar Niemeyer, who worked with Le Corbusier on the United Nations and created Brasilia, the capital city. Elsewhere, a repurposed 1930 train station, Sala Sao Paulo, has been turned into a strikingly contemporary symphonic hall. The Museum of Art of Sao Paulo (MASP), a landmark 1968 building by Lina Bo Bardi that is suspended above a plaza by colonnades at either end without any interior supports, has a collection that includes works by Renoir, Cezanne, Manet, Degas and Modigliani.
 While traveling around town by car is essential, it is easy to stroll for hours in the Jardins district, a pedestrian-friendly village that would have appealed to the urban ecologist Jane Jacobs, who wrote that a ''good city street neighborhood achieves a marvel of balance between its people's determination to have essential privacy and their simultaneous wishes for differing degrees of contact, enjoyment or help from the people around.'' Set on a sloping grid of narrow streets, the Jardins has scores of restaurants, sidewalk cafes and luxury high-rise apartment buildings separated from the sidewalks by gates and lush foliage.
 ''When you are in the Jardins, it's very easy to think you are in the richest country in the world,'' said Lauer Alves Nunes dos Santos, a semiotics professor I met while having lunch at Pret Cafe, a small Jardins restaurant tucked away in a restored house. As an American dining in a neighborhood hangout -- where a buffet set out in pretty glass bowls and iron pans makes you feel as though you've stumbled upon a private lunch party -- I was a novelty. The owner, Beatriz Ticcoulat Alves de Araujo, came out to meet me and asked if I enjoyed the gnocchi, fish stew in shrimp sauce, stuffed zucchini, rice and beans, green salad and coconut pudding. ''This is the type of food I would serve you if you came to my house for lunch,'' she said.
 There is nothing homey about the sexy and ominous Unique Hotel. Designed by Ruy Ohtake, the ark-shaped hotel seems like a set for a James Bond movie, with its darkened windows, secret doors and suited security guards. To get there, my taxi passed through Jardim Europa, a neighborhood of shady streets with baroque and modernist houses hidden behind tall walls -- the Brazilian equivalent of Beverly Hills. This L.A. moment continued at the Unique's rooftop Skye bar, where cocktails are served outdoors next to a lap pool with panoramic city views. Even on a cloudy night, there is a sunset glow, with the terrace artfully illuminated by pink floodlights. 
 Summer weekends tend to be quiet in Sao Paulo as residents head for the beaches or mountains, but many of the style-conscious families and young professionals who do stay in town end up dining at Spot, a bustling glass-box brasserie. The menu features multi-ingredient green salads, inventive pastas and small steaks with luscious sauces and crackling fried potatoes. It was hard for me to concentrate on the excellent food, though, as a steady parade of tanned women in miniskirted halter dresses kept joining a table where two movie-star-handsome men continue buying rounds of drinks for all. It seemed like an episode of ''Sex in the City'' dubbed into Portuguese.
 After dinner, I went to Bar Balcao, where a two-sided serpentine bar winds around the restaurant. ''This bar is popular with artists, poets and academics,'' said Ana Amelia Genioli, an architect who was having a late supper. ''But Sao Paulo is not Brazil. You need to see the countryside.'' I explained that I was more fascinated by cities, and told her what a Brazilian artist, Ronaldo Bregola, had said to me: ''Of course Sao Paulo is not Brazil, but Paris is not France and London is not England.''
 Sao Paulo is certainly a world-class city when it comes to shopping, no matter your taste or budget. Bargain-hunting in Sunday's Liberdade flea market, I bought inexpensive handmade crafts: children's puppets, wooden spoons and hand-dyed silk scarves in tropical hues. I loaded up on flip-flops at Page Calcados, which looks like every off-price shoe store I avoid back home. It is in a downtown wholesale district and carries Havaianas in dozens of styles and colors that are rarely imported to the United States at just 10.99 to 13.99 reais a pair ($4.95 to $6.35, at 2.2 reais to the dollar).
 But the high-end shopping is even more engaging -- even if you are only browsing. I wasn't sure whether to visit Daslu, the department store that had been profiled as a citadel of conspicuous consumption in The New Yorker three years ago. But then I met Walkiria Vaney, a Brazilian who used to live in New York and described Daslu as much bigger and grander than Bergdorf Goodman. I had to see for myself.
 You can't walk into Daslu off the street; you must arrive by car (or helicopter) and pass through a security checkpoint. The store looks like a five-star resort hotel and has the ambience of an exclusive country club where everyone is shopping instead of playing golf or tennis. In the store are 10 coffee and Champagne bars, and boutiques selling everything from Frette sheets and Prada bags to Aspen ski vacations and Harley-Davidsons. Daslu's staffing provides insight into Brazilian class structure. Sexy, animated women with good haircuts are ringing up sales while a battalion of stoic housekeepers in French maid's uniforms silently straighten shelves in the background.
 That Paulistas know how to spend lavishly is also apparent at D.O.M., a restaurant run by the celebrity chef Alex Atala, considered the country's Jean-Georges Vongerichten for his reinterpretation of Brazilian ingredients -- black beans, codfish, ferofa -- with a French twist. The dining room is hushed and corporate-looking but attracts a diverse clientele: Brazilian pop stars like Clara Moreno and her entourage, couples splurging for a special occasion, and rich families so blase about fine dining that they talk on their cellphones while they eat. 
 They should pay more attention, because the food is superb. A friend and I had the four-course tasting menu for 160 reais a person: shrimp with a papaya mango salsa; codfish brandade in a reduction of black beans; a fish called filhote in a crust of manioc, a root vegetable; duck confit with peppercorns. The unconventional cheese course was served by a waiter who twirled a mixture of potato puree and Gruyere with two spoons in the air as if it were taffy, before divvying it up onto each plate.
 After such a refined meal, the idea of a loud nightclub was out of the question, so I ended up having a nightcap at another of the boutique hotels, the Fasano, where the sumptuous masculine decor suggests that it attracts more hedge-fund managers than models, and whose Baretto bar is a contemporary riff on a 1930's cocktail lounge. 
 On my last day, I headed back to the Jardins, and its world-class shops, curious to see the interior of Galeria Melissa. Designed by Karim Rashid of New York, the store's signature all-rubber high heels -- by designers such as Alexandre Herchcovitch (whose rock star fashions are sold at his boutique around the corner) and the Campana Brothers -- are displayed in plastic bubbles that hang from the ceiling, creating a trippy ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' effect. 
 During a typical summer torrential rainstorm, I took cover at Cavalera, one of many stores that sell skintight Brazilian-made jeans and silky-soft cotton T-shirts. The salesclerks spoke little English, but they all looked like models and were eager to please, producing stack after stack of jeans, some embellished with Portuguese graffiti.
 After an hour, it was still raining hard, so I ran across the street to Z Deli, an idiosyncratic place on Alameda Lorena, another street of fashionable shops. There, the buffet lunch includes brisket, pierogi, cole slaw and, improbably, gefilte fish. Run by two Jewish women, Zenaide Raw, who once lived in New York and speaks good English, and her sister Rosa, Z Deli made me feel like an insider. When Zenaide heard I was from the United States, she brought me a piece of rich poppy seed cake and sat down at the table. When I told her I was staying only three days, she scolded me: ''How can you see everything in such a short time? Next time you have to see me first, and I will tell you what you should do.'' I assured her that I would.

SUNDAY IN THE CAFE WITH JORGE

HOW TO GET THERE
 Several airlines offer nonstop flights from New York. If you take American Airlines flight 951, which leaves New York at 10:20 p.m., you arrive in Sao Paulo at 9:40 a.m. The return flight leaves Sao Paulo at 10:35 p.m. and arrives at Kennedy at 6:06 a.m. My January coach ticket cost $928 with taxes.

HOW TO GET AROUND
 Taxis are plentiful, but don't expect your driver to speak English. The trip from the airport to my hotel was 75 reais ($34, at 2.2 reais to the dollar). A friend negotiated with a cabbie to stay with us all day for a flat fee of 150 reais.

WHERE TO STAY
 The city now has three equally luxurious boutique hotels. All quote their rates in U.S. dollars. The country-city code is 55-11.
 Emiliano, Rua Oscar Freire, 384; telephone 3069-4369; www.emiliano.com.br. Rooms begin at $299 a night. 
 Fasano, Rua Vittorio Fasano, 88; 3896-4000; www.fasano.com.br. Rates on weekends from $260; $295 on weekdays. 
 Unique, Avenida Brigadeiro Luis Antonio, 4700; 3055-4700; www.hotelunique.com.br. Rooms begin at $285.

WHERE TO EAT
 Bar Balcao, Rua Dr. Melo Alves, 150; 3063-6091.
 Canto Madalena, Rua Medeiros de Albuquerque, 471; 3813-6814. Set in the Vila Madalena neighborhood, this open-air bar is known for typical Brazilian dishes like carne secca (salted air-dried beef), best served with a cold draft beer. Meals, all served for two, about 45 reais.
 D.O.M., Rua Barao de Capanema, 549; 3088-0761. Dinner for two, with wine and drinks, about 600 reais.
 Figueira Rubaiyat, Haddock Lobo, 1738, 3063-3888. Lunch for two, without wine, about 250 reais. 
 Pret Cafe, Rua Bela Cintra, 2375; 3085-8544. Buffet lunch for two, without wine, about 80 reais. 
 Pitanga, Rua Original, 162; 3816-2914. Lunch for two, without wine, about 100 reais. Feijoada, the traditional Saturday lunch of black beans and meat, is part of a buffet served in a homey setting.
 Spot, Al. Ministro Rocha Azevedo, 72; 3283-0946. Dinner for two with drinks about 200 reais.
 Z Deli, Alameda Lorena, 1689; 3088-5644. Buffet lunch, without dessert or wine, about 74 reais.

WHERE TO SHOP
 Alexandre Herchcovitch, Rua Haddock Lobo, 1151; 3063-2888, extension 111.
 Cavalera, Alameda Lorena, 1682; 3083-5187.
 Clube Chocolate, Rua Oscar Freire, 913; 3084-1500. 
 Daslu, Avenida Chedid Jafet, 131; 3841-4000.
 Liberdade flea market, Liberdade Square. Sundays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Native crafts sold under tents in a mostly Japanese neighborhood.
 Galeria Melissa, Rua Oscar Freire, 827; 3084-3612. 
 Huis Clos, Rua Oscar Freire, 1105; 3088-7370. Exquisitely cut dresses and blouses by the Jil Sander of Brazil. 
 Page Calcados, Rua Comendador Alfonso Kherlakian, 102, 3326-6060. 

WHAT TO SEE
 Copan building, Avenida Ipiranga, 200.
 Fundacao Maria Luisa e Oscar Americano, Avenida Morumbi, 4077; 3742-0077; www.fundacaooscaramericano.org.br. A 1950 house museum surrounded by a lush tropical garden with 25,000 trees.
 Galeria Fortes Vilaca, Rua Fradique Coutinho, 1500; 3032-7066. Gallery that shows contemporary work by Brazilians as well as Americans.
 Millan Antonio, Rua Fradique Coutinho, 1360; 3031-6007; www.millanantonio.com.br. Gallery devoted to established and up-and-coming artists from Brazil.
 Museum of Art of Sao Paulo, Avenida Paulista, 1578; 3251-5644; www.masp.art.br.
 Metropolitan Cathedral Praca da Se; 3107-6832.
 Municipal Market, Rua Cantareira, 306; s228-0339. A public food hall that resembles a United Nations bazaar.
 Pinacoteca do Estado, Praca da Luz, 2; 3229-9844.
 Sala Sao Paulo, Praca Julio Prestes; 3337-5414; www.salasaopaulo.com. DAN SHAW


CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 12 about Sao Paulo misspelled the name of a Brazilian ingredient used at D.O.M., a restaurant that uses ingredients in creative ways. The food, a toasted flour, is farofa, not ferofa.
An article on March 12 about new attractions in Sao Paulo, Brazil, misattributed the design of a store, Galeria Melissa. The designer was Muti Randolph, not Karim Rashid.
An article on March 12 about Sao Paulo misspelled the name of a Brazilian ingredient used at D.O.M., a restaurant that uses ingredients in creative ways. The food, a toasted flour, is farofa, not ferofa.
An article on March 12 about new attractions in Sao Paulo, Brazil, misattributed the design of a store, Galeria Melissa. The designer was Muti Randolph, not Karim Rashid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dish of salted air-dried beef at Canto Madelena. Galeria Melissa shoe store. (Photographs by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Figueira Rubaiyat restaurant, built around a 130-year-old tree. Along Avendia Paulista, the Museum of Art of Sao Paulo in a low-slung 1968 building.
 The rooftop spa at the Emiliano, one of Sao Paulo's boutique hotels, where the author's room had six pillows of varying firmness and two Sub-Zero drawer refrigerators stocked with drinks. Teatro Municipal. (Photographs by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)(pgs. 10,11)Map of Sao Paulo, Brazil. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); BEACHES (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RELIGION (60%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Dan Shaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%) Sao Paulo (Brazil); Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



222 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; GOING TO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Reykjavik

BYLINE: By BARBARA IRELAND

 BODY:

WHY GO NOW -- In 2006 the United States population will reach 300 million, and Iceland's will hit 300,000. In national pride, the two countries will remain about equal, which goes a long way toward explaining why Reykjavik, Iceland's capital, refuses to feel like a small town. About two-thirds of Icelanders live in the city and its suburbs, and if the concentration of museums and galleries, bookstores, excellent restaurants and lively night spots per capita isn't the highest in any city in the world, it has to be close.
 The charm of the place alone assures steady visitors. Icelanders are well traveled and multilingual, yet enjoy claiming they believe in elves. They speak the language of the Vikings largely unaltered and eke out livings on an Ohio-size island with 20 active volcanoes, and then strut out on weekends for hyperactive partying. But with the midnight sun still a couple of months away, crowds are sparse at this time of year, and the city center of stone-paved streets and brightly painted peaked-roof buildings can feel almost free of tourists. 
 Forget frostbite. Although the Arctic Circle is less than 200 miles away, the Gulf Stream so moderates temperatures that in winter Reykjavik is often warmer than New York. And off-season rates and packages mitigate the shock of paying your hotel bill at what is among the most expensive cities in Europe.

WHERE TO STAY -- Book a hotel in the city center, called 101 after both its postal code and its national primacy in all things cultural, historical, governmental and sophisticated. Nearly everything is within walking distance. Winter rates prevail until April 30. The coolly stylish Radisson SAS 1919 Hotel, Posthusstraeti 2; (354) 599-1000; www.radissonsas.com, opened last May, has green marble staircases and bright rooms with dark wood furnishings in a spare Nordic design. Doubles in March start at 13,000 kronur ($203 at 66.78 kronur to the dollar).
 Also new, the Hotel Reykjavik Centrum, Adulterate 16; (354) 514-6000; www.hotelcentrum.is, opened last April in three cleverly renovated historical buildings, large versions of Reykjavik houses, with brightly painted corrugated siding and white shutters. Standard rooms for 11,000 kronur are compact and attractive, with sleekly modern furnishings and baths, shining wood floors and flat-screen televisions. An archaeological site dating to the late 800's was discovered during construction and preserved to become a basement display opening later this year.
 For seeing and being seen, there's the boutique-style Hotel 101, Hverfisgata 10; (354) 580-0101; www.101hotel.is, doubles from 28,900 kronur. The Borg, Posthusstraeti 11; (354) 551-1440; www.hotelborg.is, an Art Deco classic and probably the city's most famous hotel, has been doing a messy renovation this winter; completion is expected in mid-April. 
 The Leifur Eiriksson, Skolavordustigur 45; (354) 562-0800; www.hotelleifur.is, is a well-regarded, economically priced hotel with rooms for 10,400 kronur.

WHERE TO EAT -- Sixty percent of Iceland's national income comes from fish, and tasting it explains why. Almost any restaurant will serve a creature that was swimming a few hours earlier in cool, clean waters, and cosmopolitan chefs do much of the cooking. The perennially praised Siggi Hall, Thorsgata 1, in the Hotel Odinsve; (354) 511-6677; www.siggihall.is, with menu items like bacalao (salted cod) served three ways on one plate for 3,400 kronur, has been followed into the favors of Conde Nast Traveler by a newer challenger, the Seafood Cellar, Adalstraeti 2, (354) 511-1212; www.sjavarkjallarinn.is. A recent choice there was halibut and sea bream with capers, shiso leaves and bacon for 3,500 kronur; a land-based alternative was Cuban-spiced reindeer for 5,900 kronur.
 A two-minute walk across Ingolfstorg square, Einar Ben, Veltusundi 1; (354) 511-5090; www.einarben.is, exudes the warm feeling of a cozy 19th-century house; it was the residence and law office more than 100 years ago of Einar Benediktsson, a poet and patriot. One night this winter the complimentary appetizer was scallops with vinaigrette and chocolate. The menu included not only salted cod with Jerusalem artichokes and tomato lobster jus, for 2,820 kronur, but foal; if you're of a mind to try horsemeat, this might be the place.
 There's an escape from high prices at vegetarian restaurants, including the tiny and serene Cafe Gardurinn, with soups, hearty vegan entrees and cakes that are anything but austere. Klapparstigur 37; (354) 561-2345, lunch with dessert, about 1,500 kronur. Or fill up on the favorite local fast food, a hot dog with everything at the tiny harborfront stand called Baejarins Beztu at Tryggvagata and Posthusstraeti.

WHAT TO DO DURING THE DAY -- Orient at Perlan, five enormous hot-water storage tanks topped by a circular building with a cafe where you can gaze down on the city from a commanding high point. (A much fancier revolving restaurant is open for dinner.) The tanks are part of the system that Reykjavik uses to heat its buildings with naturally hot water from deep underground.
 Inside Perlan is the Saga Museum, (354) 511-1517; www.sagamuseum.is, which proves that dioramas don't have to be hokey as it explains how Iceland's first settlers got things going. Visitors are often convinced that its synthetic Snorri Sturluson, a 13th-century parliamentarian and an author of the Icelandic sagas, is a live model, thanks to an interior motor that pushes his abdomen rhythmically in and out in a convincing imitation of breathing. Admission, 900 kronur. The National Museum of Iceland, Sudurgata 41; (354) 530-2200, reopened in 2004 after extensive renovation and skillfully tells more of the country's story. Admission, 600 kronur.
 Harbor House, Tryggvagata 17; (354) 590-1200, one of several art galleries, is worth a visit for its bold industrial architecture and its paintings by Iceland's most famous living artist, Erro, a k a Gudmundur Gudmundsson. Admission, 500 kronur.
 Though tour companies run only limited trips into the countryside this time of year, you can take one for about 5,000 kronur to the three justly famed sites of the Golden Circle: Gullfoss, a huge and majestic waterfall roaring into a canyon; Geysir, for which all geysers are named; and Thingvellir, where Iceland's first parliament met in 930, innocently choosing a geologically monumental spot where the European and North American tectonic plates are pulling apart. (They've separated by about four yards since that first session.) 
 Back in town, ask your guide to point out Hofdi House, where Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev agreed in 1986 that pointing nuclear-armed missiles at each other might not be such a good idea after all.

WHAT TO DO AT NIGHT -- Reykjavik's all-night club and music scene doesn't wait for summer's 20-hour daylight. Every Friday and Saturday night all year, lighthearted crowds stroll in and out of bars, dance clubs and beer-soaked coffeehouses till 7 the next morning. Find a copy of The Grapevine, an English-language weekly with entertainment listings, and start around midnight, concentrating on Laugavegur and blocks close by.
 Live rock booms at Gaukur a Stong, Tryggvagata 22, or Grand Rokk at Smidjustigur 6; a happy crowd moves to mellower music at Cafe Rosenberg, Laekjargata 2. Hip throngs inhale a smoky coffeehouse atmosphere at places like Kafibarinn, Bergstadastraeti 1, and Prikid, Bankastraeti 12. At Oliver, Laugavegur 10, slim blondes in slinky cocktail dresses wait with their dates behind a long rope line. There's dancing at Rex and Pravda, Austurstraeti 9 and 22, and a well-heeled crowd of older hedonists at Thorvaldssen, Austurstraeti 8. That's barely a beginning, but exploring is half the fun.
 For an earlier night out, take in ''The Volcano Show,'' the filmmaker Villi Knudsen's regular evening screenings from his life's work filming rivers of lava as they melt glaciers and swallow up houses in Icelandic eruptions. Red Rock Cinema; Hellusund 6A; (354) 845-9548, 900 kronur.

WHERE TO SHOP -- By day, Laugavegur emerges as a street of fashionable shops purveying designer clothes, luxury goods and the famous Icelandic wool sweaters. Mals & Menningar, at No. 18, serves Iceland's love of literature with a wide selection of books in both Icelandic and English; clever cards and souvenirs are up front. Hattabud, at No. 8, spills over with women's hats; Nalin, next door, caters to serious knitters. At Tiger (No. 13), a slightly more upscale version of an American dollar store, children shopped for trinkets on a rainy day in January while a young woman with artful makeup and a perfectly shaved head was stationed at the counter. 66 Degrees North, the Icelandic winter outerwear maker, has a flagship store on Bankastraeti.
 Find Skyr, the dairy treat that's somewhere between yogurt and pudding, at grocery stores, sold in cups with built-in spoons and in flavors from pear to cappuccino. 

YES, FREE -- Watch Reykjavik families hunt bargains at the indoor harborfront flea market on Geirsgata on Saturdays and Sundays. Don't miss the food stalls at the back, with heaps of dried fish and a busy hot-dog stand.

YOUR FIRST VISIT OR YOUR 10TH -- Soak away an afternoon in the eerily exhilarating Blue Lagoon, a 1.2-acre geothermally warmed pool in a jagged landscape of hardened lava about a 40-minute bus ride out of town. It touts the exfoliating and invigorating effect of its waters, as well as its spa services and restaurant and the expansion under way. But the best part is jumping into steaming waters after running barefoot through the cold from the bathhouse. Admission and bus fare on Iceland Excursions in February were 3000 kronur, booked at the tourist office.

HOW TO GET THERE -- Icelandair flies to Keflavik, the international airport about 30 miles outside Reykjavik, daily to and from New York, Boston, Baltimore, Orlando, Minneapolis and San Francisco. In late March, a round trip from Kennedy Airport can be bought for as low as $423 on Icelandair. The comfortable Flybus takes you through a surrealistic lava field directly to your hotel for 1,100 kronur.

GETTING AROUND -- Stop first at an A.T.M., for Icelandic kronur (dollars and euros won't work) and second at the Tourist Information Center at Adalstraeti 2, (354) 590-1550, for maps and tour reservations.
 The city is eminently walkable, but taxis can be called when you need them. The drivers may be the only Icelanders you encounter who don't speak English.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Aaron Meshon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (87%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); CITIES (77%); ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); BOOKSTORES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); HISTORIC SITES (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Barbara Ireland

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (97%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) ICELAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ARCTIC (79%) Reykjavik (Iceland); Iceland

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



223 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP: MERIDA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Home (Cheerios Included) in Mexico 

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
WITH its narrow sidewalks, cobblestone streets and chalky colonial buildings painted the color of Easter eggs, Merida is home to a growing number of expatriates. Sitting on the breezy veranda of a hotel that was once a 19th-century hacienda, one expatriate, Ellen Fields, said, ''Even though Merida is a city of almost a million people, it seems like a small town if you're an expat because we all know each other.'' 
 In 2001, Ms. Fields and her husband, Jim, moved to Merida, the quaint capital of Yucatan state in Mexico. The couple, self-described dot-com refugees, left California when the tech bubble burst, hoping to find a more peaceful and less expensive existence.
Many of the expatriates gather for cocktails on the first Friday of every month, at the Merida English Library or at a local hotel. They are mostly North Americans, but a contingent of Europeans and Middle Easterners are usually there, too, mingling in front of the periodicals rack and chatting in the courtyard. 
 ''We gossip and talk about things like where you can find Cheerios,'' said Lorna-Gail Dallin, a librarian who moved to Merida eight years ago from Vancouver, British Columbia, because ''I woke up one day and I was 55 and wondered what I was doing with my life, and I wanted more light.''
 Merida has plenty of light, enough to create an average high temperature of 91 degrees. Even during the summer rainy season of June through August, it clouds over and showers for only an hour or two in the late afternoon. 
 ''You just learn to be where you want to be at 4 o'clock,'' said Dev Stern, who divides her time between Austin, Tex., and Merida, where she and her husband, Chuck, have restored a hacienda (www.haciendapetac.com), which they rent out by the week.
 Merida was founded in 1542 by Spanish conquistadors. Francisco de Montejo and his army dismantled the Mayan structures that were there and used the stone to build a cathedral and other buildings that still surround the Plaza Grande. This central square and the streets or calles around it, known as El Centro, are where many expatriates have chosen to live. 
 Except for the early afternoon -- when most people go home to take a siesta -- this roughly two-square-mile area hums with activity. People crisscross the main plaza carrying shopping bags or making their way to one of the many government offices or the Universidad de Yucatan.
 Shady pocket parks offer relief from the heat and everything seems softened by a pervasive, though not unpleasant, halo of dust. The air has the faint, warm smell of roasted corn, probably because of the many restaurants and outdoor cafes in the area serving thick, saucer-sized homemade corn tortillas. 
 Most of the plaster buildings in the historic district are from the early 19th century and have high ceilings, Moorish ironwork and colorful, patterned floor tiles called mosaico. They are also bargains, at around $40,000 for a four-bedroom, two-bathroom colonial home.
 ''A lot of the places are wrecks with trees growing out of the center,'' Ms. Dallin said. ''And labor is cheap so it doesn't take a lot to fix them up.'' 
 Foreigners have done much to preserve and transform Merida's historic architecture. ''It's kind of an expat hobby,'' said Werner Gross, who is restoring his second home in Merida after fixing up and reselling the first. 
 Local laws require that only the exterior of buildings retain their original look. ''Behind the facade, you can basically build a brand new house,'' Mr. Gross said. 
 Often hidden inside the nondescript plaster blocks that line Merida's streets are grand tile foyers, tropical central courtyards, marble bathrooms and sleek kitchens. The English Library sponsors walking tours of homes and gardens every Wednesday at 10 a.m. (Calle 53, No. 524; 52-999-924-8401; www.meridaenglishlibrary.com). 
 Foreigners are not only buying and rehabilitating real estate in Merida's central district, they are also snapping up decrepit haciendas in the surrounding countryside. From the 1880's to around 1945, many of these haciendas were the leading exporters of the fibrous material used to make rope and twine, which they extracted from henequen, a spiky plant similar to agave. But when synthetic fibers came along, the once-grand haciendas were abandoned and allowed to fall into ruin. 
 At least a dozen haciendas within a 30-mile radius of Merida have been restored. Some are private residences, and others have been transformed into resorts.
 Starwood Hotels and Resorts (www.starwoodhotels.com/luxury) operates three nearby luxury resorts that were originally renovated by a prominent Mexican banker, Roberto Hernandez. Rates range from $200 to $500 a night.
 Hotels in town are much less expensive, at $50 to $150 a night. Many are converted colonial homes that have kidney-shaped pools in their breezy courtyards planted with birds of paradise and banana trees.
 Hotels and resorts usually offer tours of the numerous Mayan ruins in the area for $40 to $100, including the most famous, Chichen Itza, which is 75 miles from Merida. Several less known -- though no less archaeologically significant -- sites are closer, like Dzibilchaltun. A 15-minute drive from Merida, it is famous for its stair-step temple situated so that the rising sun shines directly through the doorway on both the fall and spring equinoxes. 
 Another popular expatriate diversion is cooling off in the limestone sinkholes near Merida. Filled with stunning turquoise water, many of these cenotes are accessible for swimming and cave diving. And the Gulf of Mexico is just 30 minutes north of Merida, offering spicy ceviche and fish tacos at seaside restaurants. 
 But despite these kinds of outlying attractions, many expatriates say they rarely leave El Centro, where there are several museums, countless handicraft shops and cultural events like open-air symphony concerts and folk dancing performances every night of the week. 
 The streets around the central square are closed to traffic on Saturday nights, when several bands play lively Latin music, while residents do the rumba and merengue in the streets and on the steps of the cathedral. On Sundays, scores of vendors set up stalls to sell embroidered dresses, T-shirts, wood carvings, silver jewelry, and snacks like sausage, fried balls of cornmeal filled with beans, and cups of sliced mango, jicama and orange covered with lime juice and spiked with hot chili powder. 
 There are modern restaurants -- with white tablecloths and sophisticated wine lists -- as well as small cafes with seating at just a few rickety tables and food served on chipped pottery plates. The local cuisine has Mayan, Spanish, French and Caribbean influences. These hole-in-the-wall spots often have menus that change daily, featuring Yucatecan comfort food like frijol con puerco, a spicy pork and black bean stew, and pan de cazon, a shark and tortilla pie. 
 ''The flavors are amazing,'' said David Sterling, a transplant from New York City who started Los Dos (www.los-dos.com), a cooking school in Merida, four years ago. But he catches himself before getting too rhapsodic about dishes like cochinita pibil (pit-cooked suckling pig) and helado de chocolat (ice cream). He seems hesitant to betray too much enthusiasm for his new home -- and he's not alone. 
 ''We're scared too many people will find out about it,'' Ms. Fields said. ''We don't want it to get overrun.''

THE LURE OF TROPICAL COURTYARDS AND CUISINE

GETTING THERE
 Several airlines go to Merida, usually through Houston or Mexico City. A recent Web search for late-March trips found round-trip fares starting around $460.

WHERE TO STAY
 Hotel MedioMundo, Calle 55, No. 533, (52-999) 924-5472, www.hotelmediomundo.com, is comfortable, with 10 simple but colorful rooms overlooking a tropical courtyard. There are no televisions or telephones. Rates vary seasonally, from $55 to $75 a night.
 Hotel Marionetas, Calle 49, No. 416, (52-999) 928-3377, www.hotelmarionetas.com, was once a popular puppet theater but is now a nicely furnished hotel with mosaic tile floors and hooks for stringing hammocks in every room. Rooms have king-size or two queen-size beds and are $85 a night, including a Continental breakfast. 
 Hacienda Xcanatun, (52-999) 941-0213, www.xcanatun.com, is a restored hacienda in Xcanatun, five minutes outside Merida. It has 18 suites, meeting rooms and restaurant and spa services. Rates range from $230 to $325 a night.

WHERE TO EAT
 Trotters, Circuito Colonias at Calle 31, No. 134, (52-999) 927-2310, has a sleek modern interior that opens into a vast tropical courtyard. The emphasis is on seafood and steaks, with meals costing $14 to $25, at 10.7 pesos to $1. Lunch is served from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; dinner 6 p.m. to 1 a.m.
 Eladio's, Avenida Itzaes, Colonia Pensiones, (52-999) 925-0702, offers all the local snacks or botanas you can eat when you order a few beers ($1.50 each). Panuchos and salbutes (open-face tacos), longaniza (a regional smoked sausage), tzikil-pac (Mayan pumpkin seed and tomato dip) are typical. Open noon to 6 p.m.
 D'Al's, Corner of Calles 53 and 54, has casual and economical dining. Authentic Yucatecan fare with daily specials like frijol con puerco (black bean stew with chunks of pork) on Mondays and pan de cazon (shark and tortilla pie) on Fridays. Prices range from $2 to $5. Open 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
 Nectar, Avenida 1, No. 412, (52-999) 938-0838, is where local hipsters go to see and be seen. It has Yucatecan fusion cuisine like the classic sopa de lima (lime soup) but with crispy duck wontons instead of fried tortilla strips. Appetizers start at $6; entrees at $12. Open 7:30 p.m. to 2 a.m.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A performance by the Ballet Folklorico in Merida's Plaza Grande. The pool and courtyard of the house renovated by an expatriate, David Sterling. above right A cenote, or sinkhole, outside Merida. (Photographs by Adam Wiseman for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting Merida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); REFUGEES (70%); WEATHER (69%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (55%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (55%) Merida (Mex); Mexico; Yucatan Peninsula (Mex)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



224 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: March 12, 2006

 BODY:
 


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	2	1	THE 5TH HORSEMAN, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women's Murder Club investigate unexplained deaths at a San Francisco hospital.		 	 	 	2	2	5	CELL, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.95.) What remains of humanity fights to survive after a mysterious force scrambles cellphone users' brains.		 	 	 	3	3	153	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	4		1	THE TEMPLAR LEGACY, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A former Justice Department operative becomes involved in a desperate search for the long-lost treasure and secrets of the medieval Knights Templar.		 	 	 	5	4	6	THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.		 	 	 	6		1	THE TWO MINUTE RULE, by Robert Crais. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A robber just released from prison tracks down the killers of his son, a Los Angeles cop.		 	 	 	7	6	2	IN THE COMPANY OF THE COURTESAN, by Sarah Dunant. (Random House, $23.95.) A courtesan and her friend and pimp, a dwarf, make their way in Renaissance Venice.		 	 	 	8		1	THE OLD WINE SHADES, by Martha Grimes. (Viking, $25.95.) Richard Jury of New Scotland Yard investigates a disappearance that involves a murder.		 	 	 	9	8	3	LOVERS & PLAYERS, by Jackie Collins. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) After their father calls them together, Red Diamond's three sons (and their friends and relations) grapple with sex, secrets and murders on both coasts.		 	 	 	10	5	3	SEA CHANGE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., searches for the killer of a woman whose body washed ashore.		 	 	 	11	7	5	MEMORY IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas tracks the killer of a woman who was blackmailing her; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	12	11	4	OUTBOUND FLIGHT, by Timothy Zahn. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) In a new ''Star Wars'' novel, a Jedi mission to colonize worlds beyond the known galaxy becomes a fight for survival.		 	 	 	13	9	4	GONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) A former F.B.I. profiler searches for the kidnapper of his ex-wife.		 	 	 	14	10	15	MARY, MARY, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The F.B.I. agent Alex Cross tracks a Hollywood killer who announces the crimes via e-mail.		 	 	 	15	13	5	THE HUNT CLUB, by John Lescroart. (Dutton, $26.95.) A private investigator, a homicide detective and their friends search for the murderer of a local judge.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	19	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	2	47	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.		 	 	 	3	4	46	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4	3	5	YOU'RE WEARING THAT?, by Deborah Tannen. (Random House, $24.95.) How mothers and daughters communicate.		 	 	 	5	5	3	MANHUNT, by James L. Swanson. (Morrow, $26.95.) The 12-day pursuit of John Wilkes Booth after his assassination of Abraham Lincoln.		 	 	 	6	6	21	THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.		 	 	 	7	10	18	TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''		 	 	 	8	11	20	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	9	9	56	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	10		1	THE BROTHERS BULGER, by Howie Carr. (Warner, $25.95.) The story of two Massachusetts brothers, one a criminal, the other a politician.		 	 	 	11*	14	15	TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.		 	 	 	12	12	17	OUR ENDANGERED VALUES, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The former president warns against blurring politics and fundamentalist religion.		 	 	 	13	8	21	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this book contains numerous fabrications.		 	 	 	14	13	2	BEYOND BAND OF BROTHERS, by Dick Winters with Cole C. Kingseed. (Berkley Caliber, $24.95.) The war memoirs of the commander of Easy Company, made famous by Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers.''		 	 	 	15	15	2	LAST DANCE, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) Behind the scenes at the N.C.A.A. Final Four.		 	 	 	16*		2	MISQUOTING JESUS, by Bart D. Ehrman. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) How mistakes and changes by ancient scribes shaped the Bible we use today.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 25, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE BIG OYSTER: History on the Half Shell, by Mark Kurlansky. (Ballantine, $23.95.) An oyster's-eye view of New York City, genial and enthusiastic, offers historical insights into everything from prostitution to pollution. Recipes, too.
 THE CASE FOR GOLIATH, by Michael Mandelbaum. (PublicAffairs, $26.) A foreign policy expert argues that there is no credible alternative to America as the global system's guarantor.
 DON'T TELL ME THE TRUTH ABOUT LOVE: Stories, by Dan Rhodes. (Canongate, paper, $13.) Dark fairy tales of romantic obsession.
 THE ICE MUSEUM: In Search of the Lost Land of Thule, by Joanna Kavenna. (Viking, $24.95.) A legendary frozen land inspires an Arctic quest. 
 THE MAKING OF A WRITER: Journals, 1961-1963, by Gail Godwin. Edited by Rob Neufeld (Random House, $25.95.) The young Godwin chronicled the twin forces that drove her -- a fierce urge to be a writer and an irresistible attraction to men. The clef to the following roman:
 QUEEN OF THE UNDERWORLD, by Gail Godwin (Random House, $24.95.) The author's early memories transformed into fiction.
 INTUITION, by Allegra Goodman. (Dial, $25.) A cancer researcher's dubious finding sets off a tidal wave that carries many people away. 
 RIP IT UP AND START AGAIN: Postpunk 1978-1984, by Simon Reynolds. (Penguin, paper, $16.) Devo, Talking Heads: punk's chaotic aftermath. 
 PROSPERO'S DAUGHTER, by Elizabeth Nunez. (Ballantine, $24.95.) Cultures clash and commingle in this rich retelling of ''The Tempest,'' set in the 1960's off Trinidad. 
 A GODLY HERO: The Life of William Jennings Bryan, by Michael Kazin. (Knopf, $30.) A political historian sees the great orator as a pioneering advocate of enduring progressive ideas.
 COUNTING HEADS, by David Marusek. (Tor/ Tom Doherty, $24.95.) In the sinister 22nd century imagined in this debut science fiction novel, there's life after decapitation. The technological underpinnings are geek heaven.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (78%); STEPHEN KING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



225 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: March 12, 2006

 BODY:
 


	Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	4	THE CLOSERS, by Michael Connelly. (Warner, $7.99.) Detective Harry Bosch investigates the long-ago death of a 16-year-old girl.		 	 	2	4	CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: GABRIELLA & ALEXANDER, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances set on a Mediterranean isle.		 	 	3	4	IMPOSSIBLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.		 	 	4	14	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets. 		 	 	5	4	THE THIRD SECRET, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Present-day intrigue in the Vatican revolving around the Marian apparitions at Fatima in 1917.		 	 	6	8	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Warner, $13.95.) An F.B.I. agent investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	7	58	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.95; $7.99.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	8	4	CRAZY IN LOVE, by Luanne Rice. (Bantam, $7.50.) The story, first published in 1988, of a woman worried she is losing her husband to Wall Street.		 	 	9	4	SKELETON MAN, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperTorch, $7.99.) Sgt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police and Joe Leaphorn, a retired lieutenant, join forces on a case involving stolen diamonds and murder.		 	 	10	4	ORIGIN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.99.) In 2059, Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the killings of a father and son, both of whom were cosmetic surgeons; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	11	77	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	12	6	GILEAD, by Marilynne Robinson. (Picador/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.) A story of fathers and sons that reaches back to the abolitionist movement and into the 1950's, narrated by a 76-year-old Iowa pastor.		 	 	13	128	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) A Harvard scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	14	3	BREAKWATER, by Carla Neggers. (Mira, $7.99.) A former government analyst investigating a friend's death crosses paths with an undercover agent.		 	 	15	6	VANISHING ACTS, by Jodi Picoult. (Washington Square, $14.) A woman who undertakes search-and-rescue missions in New Hampshire discovers that she herself has been a missing person for nearly 30 years.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	6	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	23	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	3	54	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	4	81	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	5	20	FLYBOYS, by James Bradley. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95; $7.99.) Eight American airmen shot down and captured by the Japanese in World War II.		 	 	6*	8	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	7	9	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their trip around the world.		 	 	8	7	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	9	10	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	10	106	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of a great architect and a serial killer, who were linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	11	13	THE END OF FAITH, by Sam Harris. (Norton, $13.95.) The clash between reason and religion in the modern world.		 	 	12	5	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Bantam, $5.50.) The original English translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald.		 	 	13	7	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 	14	182	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	15	4	SMASHED, by Koren Zailckas. (Penguin, $14.) A young woman remembers her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	163	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	2	34	NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()		 	 	3	70	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	4	4	IF YOU COULD SEE WHAT I SEE, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $24.95.) A professed psychic offers 21 principles for living.		 	 	5	1	REAL MONEY, by James J. Cramer. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) Investment advice from the host of the CNBC show ''Mad Money.'' ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	17	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	254	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. ()		 	 	3	39	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.		 	 	4	267	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. () 		 	 	5	10	THE BIGGEST LOSER, by Maggie Greenwood-Robinson et al. (Rodale, $18.95.) A diet and exercise program adapted from the weight-loss reality TV show.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 25, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WOMEN (77%); RELIGION (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (64%); WORLD WAR II (51%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HOLY SEE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



226 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: End of the Runway: New Homes Are Rising

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
AS many cities continue to sprawl, especially in the West, airports that once seemed far-flung and isolated are suddenly in the middle of the action. The suburbs and exurbs have simply grown out to meet them, making airport land especially appealing to developers who are always on the lookout for new places to build.
 Over the last decade, in fact, developers have been buying up more and more airport properties around the country and putting up homes and, in some cases, commercial buildings in their place. The airport owners have been more than willing to accommodate them, finding it far more profitable to sell their land than to lease it to pilots.
Data provided by the Federal Aviation Administration seems to illustrate this trend: In 2004, the most recent year for which information is available, there were 5,280 public-use airports, down from 5,474 in 1994. Most of the property was privately owned and served smaller general aviation planes and not commercial jets. (The F.A.A. doesn't keep track, however, of what happens to an airport after it is closes.) 
 ''There are so few large unbuilt parcels left out there that developers now have to look at redevelopment opportunities,'' said Debra Bassert, assistant staff vice president of land use policy with the National Association of Home Builders. ''This means taking a piece of land that's sitting idle, that has something on it already, and doing something different with it.'' 
 Airport land is about as raw as developed land can be, which generally makes it good for building. It is almost always board flat and cleared of trees, and it is usually well-drained. The average airport is typically a few hundred acres, but some airports are much bigger, and they are always near major highways.
 Redeveloping airport land, while lucrative for developers and owners, can also benefit local communities.
 The property taxes generated by the homes and businesses planned on the site of the former Evergreen Airport in Vancouver, Wash., will allow the city to put up new roads and pay for other municipal services, said Gerald Baugh, Vancouver's manager of business development. ''If it does what we think it's going to do, I think it will be a positive thing for the town,'' he said.
 The $160 million project, which was approved by the City Council last month, calls for Opus Northwest of Minneapolis to build 135 houses and town homes, priced at $250,000 to $350,000, which is higher than the city's average home price of $203,000. In addition, there will be retail, office, and hotel space on the 50-acre site, which was ''in the middle of nowhere'' 20 years ago, according to Mr. Baugh. The owners of the airport had said they could no longer afford to keep it open.
 Also last month, Burlington, Conn., gave its approval for a local developer, Brycorp, to build 11 houses on a 19-acre parcel located at the end of the former runway at Mountain Meadows Airport. The homes, which will sell for around $400,000, will be restricted to those age 55 and over, meaning residents are unlikely to be adding children to the school system. 
 ''It's all taxes and no kids, so it was good for the town,'' said Richard Miller, the former owner, who ran into opposition from a group of pilots that wanted the airport to stay open. The 20 or so pilots have since relocated to three other airports.
 In Madison, Conn., meanwhile, LeylandAlliance of Tuxedo, N.Y., is one state permit away from building 127 units of detached houses, town houses and condominiums on the site of the 41-acre Griswold Airport, which was founded next to Long Island Sound in the 1930's. The homes, ranging from 1,000 to 3,500 square feet, will also be restricted to those 55 and over.
 Though single-engine planes and ultralight aircraft still fly out of Griswold, the airport may have outlived its usefulness, said Steve Maun, president of LeylandAlliance. ''It's not equipped for the next generation of fliers,'' he said, ''and it's been very economically difficult to sustain.'' The private airport, owned by MaryAnn Griswold, has two runways -- one paved and one grass. 
 Developing on a public-owned airport, though, can be more difficult. The F.A.A. needs to approve such sales, because these airports receive government funds, and it typically likes them to stay open to keep traffic flowing smoothly.
 Yet there have been exceptions. In August, the F.A.A. agreed to close Rialto Airport, a two-landing-strip facility near San Bernardino, Calif., so it could be sold to developers. Although it is still in use, the airport, situated next to Interstate 210, a new freeway, will eventually have 2,500 units of detached houses and town houses on its 450 acres, according to Greg Lantz, Rialto's economic development manager. Prices for the houses have not yet been set.
 Mr. Lantz said the decision to close the airport was largely an economic one; it had been losing $500,000 a year as fewer flights -- half of them by hobbyist pilots in small planes, and the other half by law-enforcement officers in helicopters -- took off and landed. Fewer new pilots and a surplus of nearby airports contributed to the airport's demise. Most pilots will now use San Bernardino International Airport, five miles to the east, Mr. Lantz said.
 ''It's not that our airport was subpar, but it didn't have all the amenities that people expect in a modern airport,'' he said. ''And people in our community said, 'We would rather have you spending money to fix potholes.' ''
 The former Robert Mueller Municipal Airport in Austin, Tex., another publicly owned facility, will also soon trade its runways for homes. 
 Because Mueller was too small for the air traffic it was getting, and runway expansion would have been difficult in the densely settled area, the city closed the 711-acre site in May 1999, when commercial jets and private planes were rerouted to Austin-Bergstrom International Airport, a larger facility built on the site of a former Air Force base seven miles away. 
 Beginning in mid-2007, the Catellus Development Corporation, the project's developer, will build 4,600 homes, including single-family and multifamily units, half for owners and half for renters, priced at $130,000 to $550,000.
 Already, medical facilities grace the property, which will eventually include four million square feet of office space, 550,000 square feet of retail space and 140 acres of parks. 
 The control tower and a hangar, saved from demolition, will end up in two of the parks, as a way to acknowledge the site's previous tenant, according to Greg Weaver, a senior vice president at Catellus. ''You get a piece of land on which you get to create a new community from scratch, that's usually located in the heart of the city,'' he said. ''It's like filling the hole in the doughnut.''
 Yet filling that hole may not always be popular with general aviation pilots, who are displaced when airports close. In fact, the number of private planes is increasing, while the number of airports is decreasing. That can create congestion by pushing general aviation planes into public airports, which have to accept them by law, said Bill Dunn, vice president of airports for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. The group represents two-thirds of all licensed pilots.
 The association, which fights to keep airports open, has had some recent successes: Albert Whitted Municipal Airport in St. Petersburg, Fla.; Reid-Hillview Airport in San Jose, Calif., and Buchanan Field Airport in Concord, Calif., where Shappell Industries, a developer, wanted to build 6,000 homes.
 One of the first airport redevelopments, in 2001, is the former Stapleton International Airport in Denver -- replaced by the Denver International Airport -- where a huge mixed-use project will add 12,000 housing units, including detached houses, town houses and lofts, to a 4,700-acre site by 2020.
 Mike King, a lawyer who moved to Stapleton from Lynncroft, N.J., in 2004, now lives in a 3,000-square-foot four-bedroom, three-bath house, one of the first to be built in the development. His commute to Denver's downtown is just 15 minutes. 
 As president of Stapleton United Neighbors, Mr. King says he gets to influence how future housing developments in Stapleton will look.
 Mr. King also says he is glad that blight did not claim the abandoned airport. ''That would have been a nasty greeting,'' he said, ''for people who are coming in from out of town.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AIR TRAFFIC REROUTED -- The former Robert Mueller Municipal Airport in Austin, Tex., above, will trade runways for homes, but the old hangar will remain. Mike King moved into a new development on the site of the former Stapleton International Airport in Denver. A housing development is also planned for the Mountain Meadows Airport in Burlington, Conn., below. (Photo by George Brainard for The New York Times)
(Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Steven Lee Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SUBURBS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); APPROVALS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (62%) Airlines and Airplanes; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Evergreen Airport (Vancouver, Wash) ; Rialto Airport (San Bernardino, Calif); Airports; Airlines and Airplanes

ORGANIZATION: Opus Northwest; Federal Aviation Administration

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (74%) San Bernardino (Calif); Vancouver (Wash); Austin (Tex); Madison (Conn); Denver (Colo); Burlington (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



227 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Sara Schildkraut, Scott Harris

 BODY:
Sara Jill Schildkraut and Scott Harris were married last night at Temple Beth El in Cedarhurst, N.Y. Rabbi Ronald L. Androphy performed the ceremony with Rabbi Leora Kaye participating. 
 Mrs. Harris, 28, is a senior trade attache at La Mission Economique, the French trade commission in New York, where she specializes in promoting the home decor industry. She graduated from Washington University in St. Louis.
The bride is the daughter of Cheryl Schildkraut of Morganville, N.J., and the late Alan Schildkraut, and the stepdaughter of Steven Jeruchimowitz. Her mother retired as a special education teacher at Freehold Township High School in Freehold, N.J. Her stepfather, also retired, was the director of software development for individual investors in the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Merrill Lynch.
 Mr. Harris, 32, is an associate real estate broker with the Corcoran Group in New York. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. 
 The bridegroom is a son of Lois Sutton and Steven Harris, both of Metairie, La., and a stepson of Joey M. Sutton and of Ann Pories Harris. The bridegroom's mother is the publisher of the New Orleans edition of Where, a monthly magazine for tourists. His father owns David Marx, a wholesale hardware company in New Orleans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); STEPPARENTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (54%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (54%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



228 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: New Homes Near a Planned Train Stop

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD 

 BODY:
ABOUT 20 years ago, Kerry O'Sullivan bought a 12,500-square-foot lot here on Brentwood Avenue, one of the many narrow lanes lined with multifamily housing that branch off the Kings Highway East corridor. Mr. O'Sullivan, then a corporate manager dabbling in real estate investment, figured that he would someday develop the site, but with no immediate opportunities, he rented the two existing houses on the lot and waited. 
 Only now is he bringing in the bulldozers. For the past decade, the gleam of reinvestment has gradually brightened a section of town once dominated by auto shops and abandoned factories. But the emergence of a gigantic commercial development on a former foundry site off Black Rock Turnpike is speeding the transformation and spurring people like Mr. O'Sullivan to action. 
That development, Fairfield Metro Center, will combine a new commuter rail station with nearly a million square feet of office, hotel and retail space on 35 acres off Exit 24 of Interstate 95. Though the groundbreaking will not take place until spring, developers are rushing in to upgrade the neighborhood's housing for a more professional clientele.
 Property values reflect the area's new appeal. ''Four years ago, my land was probably worth $150,000, and that's with the houses on it,'' said Mr. O'Sullivan, who is now a builder. ''Now, I'd say it's worth about $800,000 to a developer.''
 Residential developments under way in Fairfield and over the border in the Black Rock neighborhood in Bridgeport range from entry-level units -- like the four Brentwood Commons condominiums being built by Mr. O'Sullivan -- to a full-service upscale condominium community known as Stone Ridge. Strictly urban in flavor, the developments are neighbors to luxury auto dealerships, office buildings, restaurants and two multiplex movie theaters. 
 The first phase of Metro Center is scheduled to open in 2008. It will include the rail station (Fairfield's third) with 1,500 spaces for commuter parking, the first of four planned office buildings, a 190-room Hilton hotel and a 30,000-square-foot fitness center. 
 Blackrock Realty L.L.C., operated by Kurt Wittek and Aaron Stauber, is developing the commercial parts of the project, while Connecticut has agreed to build the station platforms and pedestrian and vehicle overpasses linking Kings Highway East with the site. The town will pay for construction of the commuter parking area. 
 ''The project has redefined the residential market for that area,'' said Mark S. Barnhart, Fairfield's director of community and economic development. The Stone Ridge condos are the clearest example, he added, because that construction ''probably wouldn't have occurred if the rail station wasn't within a half mile.'' 
 Situated behind a Lexus dealership on Kings Highway East, Stone Ridge seemed an unlikely addition to the area when it was proposed two years ago by a Manhattan development team. ''Local real estate pros were scratching their heads,'' Mr. Barnhart said. 
 A local developer had purchased the property for less than $3 million and obtained the approvals for a 70-unit residential development. The Manhattan developers, Robert S. Skolnick and David H. Small, bought the land for $9 million, then bolstered the development plan by adding private club facilities and hotel-quality personal services. 
 ''There were people who thought we overpaid for the land,'' Mr. Skolnick said. ''We thought we stole it.'' 
 So far, their hunches about the development's potential seem correct: in a year's time, more than half the units at Stone Ridge -- one-, two- and three-bedrooms -- have sold, at prices ranging from $550,000 to $950,000. Most buyers are professionals who want elegant surroundings, high security and the convenience of a concierge, but they are also ''buying with the knowledge that appreciation is just to begin,'' said Isabelle Varda, the sales director. ''Values in other areas in town have already topped out.'' 
 According to data compiled by Mark Markelz, vice president for sales of William Raveis Real Estate, in Southport, the average price of a single-family home in the neighborhoods around the Metro Center site -- from Exits 23 to 25 on Interstate 95 -- has risen 19.4 percent since 2004, to $519,838. Townwide, the average is up about 3 percent, to $765,519. 
 Condominium prices have risen 33.8 percent in the Metro Center area, to $386,713, compared with a townwide increase of 40 percent, to $513,219. 
 The Metro Center plan has also helped Black Rock, the neighborhood whose border is a stone's throw from the development site. A harbor community with sweeping views of Long Island Sound, Black Rock has lately developed some cachet as an artsy area, with a multitude of restaurants. Though it is still less expensive than other coastal communities in Fairfield County, prices there are also rising. 
 ''Metro Center has only added to the enthusiasm,'' said Ed Pinto, an agent with Century 21 Home Services Richter Real Estate and sales manager for the Village at Black Rock, a 105-unit condominium development on Fairfield Avenue. Though the development's sales model is not yet finished, 42 percent of the units are already sold, many to commuters who have been priced out of the Norwalk-Stamford market area, Mr. Pinto said. The two-bedroom units are priced at $269,999 to $339,900. 
 Yet another proposed condominium project, a high-rise development, has riled Black Rock neighborhood groups, which are worried about its impact on the community's village-like character. In the face of swelling opposition, the Greenwich-based Pearson Consulting Group and its development team recently withdrew plans for a 10-story condominium building on Black Rock's waterfront. 
 In community meetings, residents indicated they wanted a complex that did not cover the entire five-acre site, said Gregory J. Cava, a lawyer for the developers. That meant building a tower, but the proposed result -- a 10-story building -- struck some residents as ''too vertical,'' Mr. Cava said. The developers are not deterred: they plan to submit a revised application within a few weeks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: COMING TO LIFE -- Stone Ridge, above, with 70 condominiums, offers private club facilities and hotel-quality personal services
 Kerry O'Sullivan, left, is building four condominiums on Brentwood Avenue. (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Housing; Condominiums; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Railroads; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Housing

PERSON: Lisa Prevost

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Fairfield (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



229 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: New Uses for a Neglected Landmark

BYLINE: By DONNA KUTT NAHAS

DATELINE: MONTAUK 

 BODY:
GROWING up in Montauk at the tip of the South Fork, Larry Greenbaum wondered whether the crumbling old Montauk Playhouse on Edgemere Road was haunted. ''Kids would go in and explore and come out with horrible ghost stories and say there were bats in there,'' said Mr. Greenbaum, now a father of two and still a resident of the hamlet, part of the town of East Hampton.
 The playhouse was built in the 1920's as the Montauk Tennis Auditorium, a glass-roofed tennis arena with seating for 6,000. It was the centerpiece of several buildings built by the developer Carl Fisher, who dreamed of transforming Montauk into the ''Miami Beach of the North.'' 
After several incarnations -- as an assembly hall for the Navy during World War II, a theater, conference center, boxing ring and movie house -- the structure was left to molder in the 1970's. Now, however, after a 16-month restoration, the Montauk Playhouse is about to start a new life as a community center. 
 The 50,000-square-foot structure on 4.4 acres, which opens next month, will house child and adult day-care programs, which can accommodate up to 60 children and 15 adults; a gym and a fitness area; and a senior nutrition program, which can serve nearly 60. The plan also includes a playground and a flower garden that will be maintained by retirees. 
 The Tudor revival-style playhouse, listed on the National Register of Historic Places and the Preservation League of New York State's ''seven to save'' list of the most endangered historic places, is one of several previously threatened historic properties on Long Island that have found new public uses. These include the old Main Street School in Port Washington; the historic Hewlett House, a colonial-era Dutch structure on Nassau County's South Shore; and Coindre Hall, a landmark based on a French chateau design, in Huntington, Suffolk County.
 ''It's great to see a historic building come back to life,'' said Suffolk County Legislator Jay Schneiderman, of Montauk. ''Montauk has recreational centers, but they are outdoors, and this would give seniors a town-owned building in which to congregate. This will be centralized and multigenerational.'' 
 Long-term plans for Phase 2 of the construction within the building, which is to include a pool and a 300-seat theater, would be financed privately. Joan Lycke, president of the nonprofit Montauk Playhouse Community Center Foundation, estimated that project would cost an additional $6 million or $7 million.
 Preservationists say that new uses for historic properties can be a hard sell. ''Sometimes the most feasible use, both economically and physically, is not a use that the community supports,'' said Charla Bolton of the Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities. 
 She said the odds are in favor of the Montauk playhouse because it is an ''important building and a worthy project, a realizable plan with strong local backing.''
 Nevertheless, the playhouse's future got off to a rocky start. In the mid-1990's, the community opposed a plan by a developer to convert the structure into low-income housing and then senior housing. 
 In 1999, developers donated the property to the Town of East Hampton and an advisory committee recommended that the building be restored and used as a community center. The town and the playhouse foundation jointly commissioned an engineering study, which favored restoration. A second study authorized by the town raised the possibility of razing the playhouse and rebuilding. A third study recommended restoration and settled the debate. 
 William Schlumpf, president of Island Structures in West Islip, whose company is handling the restoration, said parts of the playhouse's foundation, steel skeleton and stone walls were salvageable.
 After the town decided to preserve the building, East Hampton officials and residents worried how they would finance the estimated $7.5 million restoration. In 2003, the town approved a $6.4 million bond issue, to be repaid over 30 years. After a $350,000 grant awarded by the New York State Office of Parks and Historic Preservation and other private donations streamed in, the ''scales were tipped in favor of restoration,'' said Pete Hammerle, an East Hampton town councilman.
 The cost of the project for the typical homeowner is about $15 a year in taxes, he said.
 One day in February, Mr. Schlumpf of Island Structures pointed out that the red porcelain tiles in the building's entrance, corridors and lobby were the identical color, size and shape of the original red concrete that Mr. Fisher had stamped to resemble tile. He said the ebony-stained trim in the interior echoed the decorative half-timbering on the exterior of the building.
 Ms. Lycke said: ''We are taking what the outside looks like, in the beautiful Tudor style, and carrying it through the inside. It will not be industrial looking.'' 
 Since the structure is a historic landmark, the New York State Historic Preservation Office had to approve the exterior restoration plans, Mr. Schlumpf said. He added that he had been required to maintain the original size, shape and design of the casement windows that faced two public areas to the south and west. 
 Mr. Fisher left behind more than a dozen Tudor-revival style buildings in the hamlet, including Montauk Manor, once a hotel and now a hotel-style condominium complex, and Shepherd's Neck Village, a cluster of cottages for workers at his beach resort, now individually owned. 
 Along with a handful of the oldest houses in the hamlet, ''Carl Fisher's buildings are Montauk's identity,'' said Robert Hefner, a historic preservation consultant in East Hampton. ''The playhouse was the biggest tennis auditorium in the country at the time and the glass roof was unusual.'' He noted, ''It was architecturally important for its engineering.'' 
 ''True, his plan did not come to fruition, but there's enough there that it gives a chapter in the history of Montauk,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PART OF MONTAUK'S IDENTITY -- The Montauk Community Center is to be completed next month
 the space below will be used as a dining room for a nutrition program. (Photographs by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); CHILDREN (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); HISTORY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); ADULT DAY CARE (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%); NUTRITION (50%) Theater; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Theaters (Buildings); Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation (NYS)

PERSON: Donna Kutt Nahas

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%) East Hampton (NY); New York State; Montauk (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



230 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITY LORE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Sailing Away

BYLINE: By JOHN MAXTONE-GRAHAM. 
John Maxtone-Graham is a maritime historian whose latest book, ''Normandie,'' will be published next year by Norton.

 BODY:
ON its maiden arrival in New York in June 1911, White Star's giant liner Olympic berthed at the Chelsea piers, at 700 feet the longest in Manhattan. But the vessel's stern still jutted 180 feet out into the Hudson River. Clearly, Europe's naval architects had surpassed New York's harbor engineers.
 Not until 1935 would the city catch up. The Normandie, the first of the 1,000-foot vessels, was due that June. To accommodate the French liner, New York's Department of Docks decided to create a series of 1,100-foot piers in Midtown by lengthening three existing 800-footers -- Nos. 88, 90 and 92 -- which stretched from West 48th Street to West 52nd Street.
The plan promptly ran aground when the federal government ruled that no Manhattan pier could be extended farther into the water, so as not to obstruct the shipping channel. But the Department of Docks was not deterred; it devised an ingenious if labor-intensive response. Rather than extend the three chosen piers into the river, the agency decided to extend them inland, the equivalent of lengthening trousers by raising the crotch rather than letting down the hems. 
 That decision would help usher in the age of Manhattan's super piers, as the news media quickly called the big new berths, an era that helped define the city at midcentury. But the super piers will lose much of their remaining luster next month as several star players abandon Manhattan, among them the Queen Mary 2, which will sweep into Red Hook on April 15.
 The mammoth stretching project required to accommodate the Normandie and its equally enormous rivals began in 1933. Hundreds of thousands of tons of stubborn Manhattan schist were blasted, clawed and excavated from the head of each intervening slip. After more than a year's toil, three 300-foot indentations had been gouged out of the West Side.
 The construction project did not include refurbishment. New York's piers had always fallen woefully short of their more civilized European counterparts, which included bars, restaurants, waiting rooms, even post offices. By contrast, Manhattan terminals were dreary, cavernous warehouses, broiling in summer, frigid in winter, and utterly devoid of decoration. Passengers embarking onto the world's most luxurious conveyances did so through indifferent, almost squalid anterooms. But now, at least, the piers would be long enough.
 The newly stretched Pier 88, the southernmost of the three, was completed just in time. On the morning of June 3, 1935, as the Normandie steamed triumphantly upriver, bunting was being draped atop wet paint. 
 Enormous crowds packed 12th Avenue to watch as the ship, assisted by a dozen tugs, struggled to make its way into its new digs. Only after two abortive attempts did the liner manage to execute the tricky 90-degree turn east required to ease its huge bow into the slip. Even as the Normandie was tying up on the north side of Pier 88, across the way, work was continuing on Pier 90, where Cunard White Star's 1,000-foot Queen Mary was scheduled to arrive a year later.
 For more than seven decades, Manhattan's super piers served generations of ships and their passengers. During World War II, they played host to troop ships, a flotilla of gray-painted, ghostlike vessels that included the Queen Mary, the Queen Elizabeth, the Aquitania, the Nieuw Amsterdam and the Ile de France, which had all been dragooned for the urgent business of war. Packed with troops, they slipped their moorings on secret nocturnal sailings that were furtive rather than festive, bound for high-risk passage across a hostile North Atlantic. After V-E Day, the same vessels completed happier crossings, spilling millions of khaki-clad soldiers and sailors onto the super piers along with many of their wounded comrades and thousands of wartime brides and their children. 
 The three piers, christened ''luxury liner row,'' resumed their role as Manhattan's only working passenger docks, accommodating fleets of restored and repainted ocean liners that were cashing in on America's postwar wanderlust and leading countless East Siders to admit, without a trace of self-consciousness, ''We only travel to the West Side to sail to Europe.'' 
 But a threat was looming, courtesy of aircraft that could cross the ocean in hours rather than days. In 1956, more Americans booked airline seats than they did shipboard cabins; for ocean liners, that statistic represented the beginning of the end as one by one, liners were either laid up or retooled as cruise ships.
 There is great irony in the fact that just a year before both Queens departed from New York for good in the late 1960's, the super piers were renovated, air-conditioned, topped with parking lots and christened the North River Passenger Ship Terminal. By then, nearly all the vessels they were intended to accommodate had disappeared.
 BUT the role of the super pier continued. Superannuated ocean liners were supplanted by cruise ships offering warm-weather voyages to Bermuda and the Caribbean, although many of these ships forsook New York for bases in Florida or Puerto Rico, so as to more quickly provide the turquoise waters that America's new sun-worshiping passengers craved. 
 Today, it is not the length of the new ships but their huge passenger loads that overwhelm the super piers, especially since cruise ships turn around in one day, arriving at dawn and departing by dusk.
 When several of these monsters tie up at the same time, the result can be chaos, especially since economy dictates that cruise ships turn around in one day, arriving at dawn and departing by dusk; like aircraft they make money only under way. More than 12,000 passengers debark into fleets of waiting buses, and, by lunchtime, equivalent thousands descend from buses to take their place. Because ship storerooms must be replenished on the same day, dozens of 18-wheelers jostle for entry into the lower levels of the pier sheds.
 The congestion is so acute that Micky Arison, Carnival's chief executive and the owner of Cunard, began searching New York Harbor for an alternative berth for his Miami and Fort Lauderdale fleets. He settled on an abandoned coffee pier in Red Hook, Brooklyn. Renovation and construction is under way, and when the Queen Mary 2 arrives from the Pacific on April 15, it will turn east toward Red Hook rather than continue upriver to its customary super pier berth.
 Other owners have directed their vessels to the harbor's opposite shore. Royal Caribbean ships, including Celebrity Cruises, tie up in Bayonne, a New Jersey slip that is barren but blessed with infinite parking space. 
 At the same time that these relocations may be helping write the epitaph for Manhattan's super piers, they are also laying waste to hallowed tradition.
 For more than a century, sailing near the Statue of Liberty was a rite of passage for vessels sailing into and out of the city. But as they approach New York Harbor, vessels headed for Red Hook will veer to starboard, and those destined for Bayonne will turn to port. Both detours will mean that as they sweep into a storied harbor, passengers will get only a distant glimpse of the Lady with the Lamp.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SUPER, ONCE UPON A TIME -- The Normandie, easing itself into port in New York in 1935.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); RIVERS (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



231 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Aftershocks, Deep and Hypnotic 

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
AT the beginning of ''After the Quake,'' a man tells a little girl a bedtime story about a bear. The bear had no friends, but sold lots of honey. He was ''the all-time No. 1 honey bear.'' Then the man begins another story, this one about a meek bank employee who went home to his apartment one night to find a six-foot-tall frog waiting for him. The frog had made tea.
 The connection between these two Haruki Murakami short stories, adapted by Frank Galati, is earthquakes. They are told in the Steppenwolf Theater's production, now visiting the Long Wharf Theater after its world premiere in Chicago last fall. Directed by Mr. Galati, it is an elegant, economic, gently hypnotic piece of theater. 
The little girl, Sala (played alternately by Olivia DiMarco and Bing Klein), has to be soothed. Ever since the Kobe earthquake in January 1995, she has been having nightmares about the Earthquake Man. 
 In the second story, Frog (Keong Sim) has come to warn Mr. Katagiri (Andrew Pang) about a quake even worse than the one in Kobe. The epicenter will be in Tokyo, directly under the bank where Mr. Katagiri works. It will happen, as all earthquakes do, Frog explains, when a giant worm ''as big as a commuter train'' becomes angry. His and Katagiri's assignment is to calm down the worm. 
 The storyteller is not Sala's father. He is Junpei (Hanson Tse), a longtime friend of her mother's. In fact, back in college, Junpei was in love with the mother, Sayoko (Aiko Nakasone), but she married another friend, a strutting jock type, Takatsuki (Mr. Pang). That romantic triangle is the play's third narrative.
 Mr. Pang makes an impressive transformation between his two characters, the milquetoasty, often puzzled Katagiri and the supremely self-assured young Takatsuki. Mr. Sim, who is also the play's narrator, turns into Frog simply by adding bright green gloves and eyeglasses with green frames. 
 Sayoko changes only by seeming a little tired as a mature woman compared with her college-age self. Whenever Sayoko enters, the cello-and-koto orchestra (Jason McDermott and Jeff Wichmann) plays a few bars of ''Norwegian Wood'' (the Lennon-McCartney lyrics begin, ''I once had a girl, or should I say, she once had me'').
 This is an unexpected touch of familiarity for many theatergoers. Others may know that Mr. Murakami, a Japanese novelist in his late 50's, has a taste for Western and global cultural references. (Frog quotes Joseph Conrad and sympathizes with a character for never having read ''Anna Karenina.'') In fact, ''Norwegian Wood'' is also the name of a best-selling novel Mr. Murakami wrote about the women in the life of a young student in the 1970's. 
 The stories in ''After the Quake'' (except the college flashbacks) are set a month after the Kobe disaster. Maybe that's why all the elements -- a little girl's nightmares, a plan to prevent a natural disaster, a romantic relationship that should have begun long ago -- reflect and satisfy a yearning for solace and safety. 
 ''After the Quake'' is at the Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive, New Haven, through March 19. Information: (203) 787-4282 or at www.longwharf.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hanson Tse, seated, as Junpei, who loved Sayoko (Aiko Nakasone).
 Andrew Pang, left, as a meek bank employee and Keong Sim as a prescient frog in ''After the Quake'' at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven. The play is an adaptation of short stories by Haruki Murakami. (Photographs by Michael Brosilow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (64%); TRAINS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



232 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Less for Medicaid, More for Museums

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHARFENBERG

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
STARTING six years ago, the Hudson River Museum laid off 10 percent of its staff, trimmed its music and lecture series and shrunk its exhibition schedule.
 But today the museum is showing signs of renewal. It is mounting three major exhibitions each season instead of two. And the current show, ''Westchester: The American Suburb,'' a meditation on the county's iconic place in the popular imagination, is creating substantial buzz.
After years of struggle, said Michael Botwinick, the museum's director, ''it's nice to climb out of that with something that I think is meaningful and important to the county.'' 
 The exhibition, which cost more to produce than a typical three-show season at the Hudson, is in part a sign of the museum's recovery from the Sept. 11 attacks, which channeled philanthropic dollars toward more pressing needs and kept families at home on the weekends. 
 But the rebirth of the museum, which relies heavily on county government financing, also underscores Westchester's tentative emergence from another financial hardship: the runaway cost of Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor.Many states are dealing with exploding Medicaid costs. But New York, which operates the largest program in the country, is the only state that passes a substantial portion of the burden on to local government. Last year, New York City and the 57 counties outside the city put up $6.93 billion, or roughly 15 percent, of the bill for the state's program.
 In Westchester, the rising cost of Medicaid contributed to double-digit increases in local property taxes in the early part of the decade, a 10 percent reduction in the county work force and painful cuts for libraries, youth programs and cultural institutions like the Hudson River Museum.
 But now, after years of agitation in Albany, the counties have finally won a measure of relief. And the institutions they finance, like the museum, are breathing easier. Under a state law that took effect in January, each county's Medicaid contribution will grow by just 3.5 percent this year. The figure will drop to 3.25 percent next year and 3 percent in 2008 and every year thereafter.
 Andrew J. Spano, the county executive, called the cap on local costs a partial victory for counties like Westchester, which have been accustomed to 10- to 15-percent annual increases in Medicaid bills. He said he would prefer that the state pick up the entire cost of the program. But the cap on increases -- along with the revenue flowing from local tax increases originally spurred by the hefty Medicaid payments to the state -- has helped county officials stabilize the budget and restore financing to many programs, Mr. Spano said.
 Now the Westchester County Historical Society can send out old books for rebinding again. The Westchester Library System is planning to improve its lackluster services for young adults and offer downloadable books on each library's Web site. And the Hudson River Museum has been able to mount the long-planned ''American Suburb'' exhibition.
 Neighboring counties are seeing similar gains. In Nassau, officials are hiring 100 new police officers. And in Orange County, Edward A. Diana, the county executive, says officials are moving forward on stalled plans for a new emergency management building and county administrative complex.
 But the cap, county officials say, has had its greatest impact on property taxes. Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, revealed in a report in late January that county property taxes increased by half as much statewide this year as they have in the previous five years, in large part because the cap saved counties an estimated $190 million.
 Westchester property owners, already weary of tax increases, will have to pay 4.5 percent more this year. But that is less than half the 9.9 percent annual growth the county has averaged over the last five years.
 A dozen counties, including Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Dutchess, Nassau and Suffolk, hope to realize additional savings through ademonstration project that allows counties, for the first time, to pore over billing records looking for patterns of fraud, waste and abuse by doctors, pharmacists and other providers.
 Until now, the state has been solely responsible for investigating provider abuse and has come under intense scrutiny for failing to root out what experts say could amount to billions in improper billing.
 Counties have contracted with I.B.M. and Salient Technologies to mine their Medicaid data. Initial results from Rockland County, released in January, suggested up to $13 million in suspicious billing among a small sampling of pharmacists and internists alone. Westchester and the other remaining counties expect to get results in the coming weeks, officials say.
 Ferreting out fraud and waste has emerged as a favorite goal of politicians, eager to cut costs without cutting services. But Paula Wilson, vice president for policy with United Hospital Fund, a bipartisan health-care research group, says New York needs a much bigger fix.
 ''Even after we get a good fraud program up and under way,'' she said, ''we still have the largest Medicaid program in the country.''
 State officials are ultimately responsible for reform, she said, and nothing but a systematic overhaul will do. United Hospital Fund is pushing for new, centralized approaches to care for costly patients who have multiple disorders. 
 Other organizations, like the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, have urged New York to follow the lead of states like South Carolina and Florida and inject free-market concepts of competition and choice into their Medicaid programs.
 In the meantime, counties are just beginning to recover from years of crushing costs. The impact has been greatest upstate, where officials see growth in the Medicaid rolls but not in the local economy. In Washington County, officials raised property taxes about 52 percent over the last three years. And in Albany County, taxes went up 70 percent. Both counties have reduced property taxes since the cap was instituted this year. 
 The wealthier downstate suburbs have a smaller proportion of poor people qualifying for Medicaid and have benefited from local economic growth of late. But they face hurdles of their own, including the high cost of nursing homes and other medical care in the New York metropolitan region.
 Westchester has been among the hardest hit. Last year, Medicaid accounted for a larger share of the county's budget -- 16 percent -- than it did for any of the other downstate suburbs. The county also spent more per patient than any of its neighbors other than Putnam County, according to a New York Times analysis.
 State data suggest that the high cost per patient in Putnam and Westchester may be attributable to the relatively large numbers of needier elderly and disabled people in each county. These populations, in need of intensive services, have long driven Medicaid costs. In New York, they account for roughly one-quarter of the program's patients, but three-quarters of its cost.
 With Medicaid exerting growing pressure on the county budget over the last couple of years, Mr. Spano, the Democratic county executive, has done his best to deflect the blame onto Albany for property tax increases and program cuts.
 In 2004, officials posted signs in White Plains on the county administrative building on Martine Avenue and the County Center on Central Park Avenue charting Westchester's growing Medicaid contribution. There were also cable television advertisements, notes on the bottom of county e-mail messages and a ticker on the county Web site reminding voters of Albany's imposition on local taxpayers.
 George Oros, the Republican county legislator who serves as minority leader, described the publicity campaign as little more than a political stunt. The administration, he said, should have been lobbying for fundamental Medicaid reform and not just a break for county government. And when it came to budgeting, he said, the county executive should have pushed for more program cuts and fewer tax increases.
 But the administration, whatever the wisdom of its strategy, has been able to achieve some level of stability. In January, with the cap taking effect, Mr. Spano took down the signs, eliminated the ticker and removed the e-mail notes. Now, it seems, the county has the time to reflect on other concerns.
 At the Hudson River Museum, an anonymous painting of Washington Irving's Sunnyside, a 19th-century estate nestled alongside the railroad tracks in Tarrytown, suggests that Westchester's commuter culture began earlier than one might imagine.
 Downstairs, dueling kitchen scenes from the 1870's and 1920's signal the county's shift from an upper-crust domain of masters and servants to a middle-class playground for the appliance-happy consumer. And at the gift shop, visitors can pick up a 468-page exhibition catalog filled with scholarly articles on Westchester's diversity and the impact of ''Edward Scissorhands'' and other films on the popular conception of suburbia.
 Mr. Botwinick, in a series of telephone interviews, emphasized that the exhibition had inspired a new sense of optimism in the museum's halls. ''We would not have been able to do this in the lean times,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Westchester County's increased support for cultural institutions as a result of reductions in Medicaid expenses misstated the name of a company hired by counties to search for fraudulent claims. It is the Salient Corporation, not Salient Technologies.
An article last Sunday about Westchester County's increased support for cultural institutions as a result of reductions in Medicaid expenses misstated the name of a company hired by counties to search for fraudulent claims. It is the Salient Corporation, not Salient Technologies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hudson River Museum, which relies heavily on county funds, is one of various organizations benefiting from limits recently imposed on county-to-state Medicaid payments. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A youth study group at the New Rochelle Library. With the county's Medicaid payments to the state easing up, the Westchester Library System is planning to improve its services for young adults. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); MEDICAID (91%); LAYOFFS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LIBRARIES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); HEALTH CARE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



233 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Mortgaging New York's Future

BYLINE: By David M. Muchnick. 
David M. Muchnick is a consultant on affordable housing and community economic development.

 BODY:
CONFRONTED by the state's meteoric housing boom and Washington's constant narrowing of its federal responsibilities, New York's next governor must face up to downstate's twin challenges of a worsening shortage of affordable housing and a corrosive exodus of young adults.
 Because housing prices and rents have increased more than wages and incomes for over a decade, more than two million New York homeowners and tenants were forced to pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing in 2003. Among them were 180,000 in Suffolk, 147,000 in Nassau, 98,000 in Westchester, 37,000 in Orange, 32,000 in Rockland, 30,000 in Dutchess, and 893,000 in the four boroughs outside Manhattan. 
And they are among the lucky ones: they actually have a place of their own.
 They are in better shape than some 330,000 young adults downstate who, because of the shortage of affordable rental apartments, can't leave their parents' homes and form their own households in their old neighborhoods at a rate comparable to young adults elsewhere in the state. Presumably, tens of thousands of these 20- to 34-year-olds will be forced to move great distances to get a place of their own, as did some 235,000 during the last decade.
 Losing young adults mocks the investments in education made by the state and local governments. It deprives local businesses of sorely needed employees. It extends families by geography, not just generation, producing more travel, more gas guzzling and more pollution. It's a drain the next governor should, and can, begin to stop. Here's how.
 First, the new governor should amend the state's real estate transfer tax law so that it dedicates equal portions of these tax revenues -- expected to be $930 million in the 2006 fiscal year, $800 million in 2007, and more than $750 million annually in the next two fiscal years -- to affordable housing development and to environmental purposes. The current law and recently proposed amendments serve only environmental objectives.
 Such an amendment would provide $251 million in additional capital funds for affordable housing this year based on the financing levels proposed in the 2007 fiscal year executive budget ($147 million for the Environmental Improvement Fund plus $104 million in anticipated debt service payments from the Clean Water Clean Air Debt Service fund). This alone is more than double the $104 million in capital funds proposed for affordable housing in the 2007 fiscal year's executive budget, an amount that has remained virtually the same in every executive budget since 2001-02 despite the worsening housing crisis and the 200 percent increase in annual real estate transfer tax revenues.
 By designating money for affordable housing capital funds, the amendment would establish a true housing trust fund, not one dependent on an annual discretionary appropriation. Real estate transfer tax revenues are generated by the real estate and housing industries. It is only fair to invest part of the state's windfall in those revenues in affordable housing. 
 By giving parity to environmental and affordable housing objectives, the amendment would lay the financial keystone of a balanced, smart-growth policy. Such a policy recognizes that the goals of affordable housing and environmental conservation should, and can, be complementary. 
 Second, the new administration should empower the state's Housing Finance Agency and Mortgage Agency to be more aggressive and creative in developing and preserving affordable housing. Both agencies have laudable records, immense portfolios with thousands of housing units, billions in assets, millions in reserves and AA credit ratings. Since the 2003 fiscal year, they have generated $463 million in surplus reserves and excess earnings that were transferred to the state's general fund. Just last week, members of the Legislature reached a key agreement on the state's new 2007 budget by tapping $125 million in excess reserves from one of these agencies. 
 The governor should put a stop to this practice of withdrawing the excess earnings and reserves from these agencies to balance the state's budget. These funds -- upwards of $100 million annually -- should be used by the agencies to finance and preserve affordable housing.
 Third, the new governor should propose legislation to establish a new program to build multifamily (rental, co-op and condominium) housing that would deal with the needs of hundreds of thousands of middle-income working families who are ''too rich'' for low-income developments, yet ''too poor'' to buy a new state-subsidized ''affordable'' home. 
 This program is likely to be especially helpful to downstate's young adults: suburbs with a larger proportion of rental apartments in multifamily buildings are likely to lose a lower percentage of their young adults and have a lower percentage of young adults living with parents or older adults. 
 Finally, the governor should seek legislation with inclusionary incentives and requirements that encourage communities to find sites for affordable development. 
 New York has the resources and creativity to combat the downstate region's loss of young adults while also meeting the housing needs of the residents with low and moderate incomes. What it will take is executive leadership pledged and committed to that goal. Every candidate for governor (and for any legislative office for that matter) should be asked to take that pledge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



234 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Cliff Collapse That Shut Shops Now Imperils a Downtown 

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

DATELINE: PELHAM 

 BODY:
BETWEEN Second and Third Streets on the east side of Fifth Avenue, the main commercial street in this village north of the Bronx, retail activity has all but ceased. The dozen or so shops and restaurants along that side are dark and empty; police tape blocks access to the storefronts -- even to the sidewalk. Shoppers have been forced to take their business elsewhere.
 Life along Fifth has been like this ever since one night in December, when a colossal chunk of a cliff that towers behind the row of shops suddenly gave way. No one was hurt in the collapse, but it sent car-sized boulders and tons of debris tumbling down onto the stores and street. One building housing a bank and two other businesses was destroyed and eventually demolished. Although a dozen stores in two additional buildings remain standing, officials were forced to evacuate them.
The owners of those stores have been told that they cannot return until engineers have found a way to stabilize the cliff, a process that village officials have said is likely to last several months. 
 But what started out three months ago as a bad situation for the village has in many ways worsened. Owners who say they have already lost tens of thousands of dollars while waiting for their shops to reopen have now become locked in a contractual battle with their insurance companies. 
 The threat posed by that battle looms beyond the 16 affected storefronts, casting its shadow on the entire downtown, officials and merchants say. With a significant number of shoppers no longer frequenting the area, they say, one of the few remaining traditional shopping districts in the county is suffering an overall decline in business.
 ''We can't allow these businesses to be shut down like this,'' said Congresswoman Nita Lowey, who has been working with the village to secure federal relief for the store owners. ''I feel very strongly that the small businesses in this area are absolutely critical. They're the backbone of the community.''
 Linda Collins, an optometrist and co-owner of the Village Optician, which had been in business only a year and a half when its quarters were obliterated, described the evolution of her feelings since December. ''The collapse was shocking and unbelievable at first,'' she said, ''and then the reality hit that the insurance companies don't want to pay. 
 ''This is obviously something that was out of our control. It's outrageous that they won't give us a dime.''
 Almost all the insurers of the 16 businesses have insisted that the collapse was an act of God -- or landslide-like event that falls into the category of ''earth movements,'' which their policies specifically do not cover. A team of engineers hired by one owner studied the collapse and issued their own report last month, concluding that the insurers' explanation was inaccurate. 
 Yet the study has neither swayed the insurers on the claims nor persuaded them to pay out related ones. 
 Several owners, for instance, filed separate claims on policies they had taken out covering business interruptions. They were told that their claims were being rejected because their stores were still standing. Yet at the same time two of the three businesses that operated out of the demolished building -- the Pelham Cafe and the Village Optician -- have also had their business-interruption claims denied.
 With no income from their stores and no insurance payments, owners are struggling to stave off debt. Some say they are trying to hold on until they are allowed to re-enter their shops; others say they fear they will have to move their businesses away from Pelham or simply shut down for good.
 ''I get up in the middle of the night wondering what I'm going to do,'' said Som Nagpal, who owns Rangoli Indian Cuisine, at 142 Fifth Avenue. ''Our credit has been ruined, we are unable to make payments on any of our bills, I've gone into overdraft and I have no money left.''
 ''I put my life savings into this restaurant,'' he added, ''and it's like a tsunami came and wiped it out. In three months I have lost eight pounds, and I'm already a skinny guy.''
 Ms. Lowey and the village have been pushing the state for two months to have the rockslide declared an economic disaster. But although that request was approved by Gov. George E. Pataki's office earlier this month, allowing the federal Small Business Administration to offer low-interest loans, owners say these would merely sink them further into debt. 
 Ms. Collins, the optometrist, said: ''It'd be like going out and buying a new car after I just lost my job. I don't want a loan, and I think most of us feel that way. How are we supposed to pay off loans with no income?'' Instead the owners are counting on another strategy: They have joined forces in hiring an insurance adjuster to appeal their claims.
 They are basing their argument at least in part on the report commissioned by the Pelham Medical Group and issued last month by Mueser Rutledge, the engineering firm hired by New York City to investigate the recent collapse of a retaining wall on the Henry Hudson Parkway in northern Manhattan. It determined that the rupture was a long-term result of water seepage into crevices along the cliff. After years of successive freezes and thaws, engineers concluded, the crevices eventually deepened and rocks began to give way. 
 That finding, along with evidence from the United States Geological Survey that there was no seismic activity in Pelham that day, suggests that the collapse was not a landslide or ''earth movement'' but an event known to geologists as a ''rock topple,'' according to the report. Village officials have supported the findings, said Lenny Russo, the village building inspector.
 ''We are fighting very hard for the merchants,'' Mr. Russo said.
 Steven Fauth, senior vice president for claims at the Tower Insurance Company of New York, which covers Rangoli Indian Cuisine and two other affected businesses, said the fact that there was no seismic activity on the day of the collapse was inconsequential.
 ''The exclusion isn't an earthquake exclusion, so seismic activity isn't exactly a defining factor,'' said Mr. Fauth, who is also the company's general counsel. ''The exclusion is much broader than that -- any earth movement at all is excluded.''
 That difference is crucial, Mr. Fauth said, because for any part of the owners' policies to take effect, there must first be a ''coverage trigger.'' 
 Without the trigger, Mr. Nagpal's secondary insurance policy with Tower, specifically covering food spoilage, was denied as well. Even though, he said, he threw away about 40 garbage bags filled with rotted food that had cost him about $20,000, the food spoiled as a result of the collapse -- which as an earth movement gets no coverage. 
 The other owners have had their claims denied for the same reason and, in some cases, because there is no actual damage to their buildings, which sit pressed against an unstable cliff.
 ''My understanding is that the village shut down the stores because of fears about safety,'' Mr. Fauth said. ''I think the issue is with the town and what's going on with the surrounding property.'' 
 While the owners appeal their claims and fight for compensation, the fate of the cliff remains far from clear. Two of the three affected buildings are owned by one company, Lordae Realty, which is expected this week to hand the village a proposal to stabilize its sections of the cliff. The company has been criticized by store owners and village officials who say it should have submitted that proposal weeks ago.
 The other property owner, Dr. Rajeev Sindhwani of Scarsdale, has acted more quickly, hiring an engineer who says he intends to build a 30-foot-high retaining wall behind the building. The village has already given the plan a tentative nod, because others would most likely involve blasting away rock, which could aggravate the instability. 
 The construction effort would last about five months, Dr. Sindhwani said, and he is eager to get it started because he shares his building, the Pelham Medical Group, with five other doctors.
 ''I have an interest in speeding up this process because this is not just a building for me, it's my practice,'' he said. ''We have no income and no insurance payments coming in, but the building mortgage still has to be paid, the taxes have to be paid.''
 ''I believe in my practice,'' he added, ''and I believe that the village needs us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A composite image, above, of the east side of Fifth Avenue in Pelham. Some shops have been razed
the others, roped off by police tape, were found unsafe and have remained vacant since December. Left, the collapsed cliff lodged against the Pelham Medical Group building on Fifth. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A building on this site adjacent to the Pelham Medical Group building on Fifth Avenue used to house an optician, a cafe and a bank. Across the street, stores are unaffected but business has fallen off. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); OPTOMETRY (85%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INSURANCE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



235 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: A Property Battle Pitting Two Giants 

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
NEITHER the Village of North Hills nor the Deepdale Golf Club is a stranger to exclusivity and privilege.
 North Hills, which is defined by multimillion-dollar homes in gated enclaves, is known as one of the 10 wealthiest communities in the nation.
Deepdale, just north of the Long Island Expressway at the western edge of the village, is ranked 36th in Golf Connoisseur magazine's latest list of America's ''100 Most Prestigious Golf Clubs.'' Over the years it has counted President Dwight D. Eisenhower and the Duke of Windsor as members, and more recently Michael R. Bloomberg, Tom Brokaw and Sean Connery.
 Now, the village and the club are entwined in a battle of Goliath against Goliath. 
 The village recently took some steps to prepare for condemning the club under eminent-domain laws, so that it can convert it into a public course. (Only a little bit public, though: it would probably be restricted to village residents.) 
 When it learned of the moves, the club and some of its members tried a pre-emptive strike, filing two lawsuits last Tuesday meant to block a condemnation. 
 ''The mayor of the village of North Hills is so intent on seizing Deepdale as a trophy golf course that he has perverted zoning law, and intends to abuse condemnation law, to try to get it,'' said Michael Mulholland, a lawyer for the club.
 Marvin Natiss, the mayor of North Hills, said the club and its members ''have unlimited funds, and they clearly have pulled out all the stops'' in an effort to ''intimidate us into stopping any course of action that would jeopardize their pristine, prestigious golf club.'' He added, ''If we're right on the law, I do not intend to be intimidated.''
 Mr. Natiss said that the village had not yet decided whether to pursue condemnation. All it had done, he said, was authorize the hiring of an appraiser and an environmental consultant to review the property. 
 But Deepdale representatives said that Mr. Natiss and his predecessor, John Lentini, had spoken for years about acquiring Deepdale, and that the hiring of consultants was concrete evidence of the village's intentions.
 Mr. Natiss has said that a village golf course would be a wonderful amenity for residents. Mr. Lentini once said that making Deepdale a village club would ''make North Hills that much more desirable, which would make the properties that much more valuable, which will bring in that many more affluent people.''
 North Hills is not a big place: 2.8 square miles in area, 1,800 households and roughly 4,500 residents. When it was first incorporated in 1929, it consisted of just a handful of huge Gold Coast estates, owned by families like the Whitneys, the Paleys and the Graces. Indeed, Deepdale's clubhouse is the former 40-room home of an heir to the W. R. Grace fortune. Average income per person in the village was $100,093 in 2002, the latest figure available.
 Each side accuses the other of spreading misinformation. 
 Deepdale representatives say that the club is worth at least $100 million and that the village would need to raise property taxes significantly and sell off part of the 175-acre club to developers to subsidize its purchase. 
 Mr. Natiss said he believed the property was worth less because zoning allows only one house on every five acres. He said that the club was merely trying to frighten residents with the specter of overdevelopment and skyrocketing property taxes.
 ''I have no intention of developing it -- I want to keep it open space,'' Mr. Natiss said. ''And if it came in at a substantial high appraisal, we would make the decision not to proceed, because we're not interested in imposing a financial burden on any village resident.''
 John Wilson, the only member of the Deepdale club who resides in the village, said: ''It would be one thing if they said they wanted to put up a children's hospital here, or something like that. But to take a private club just to make it someone else's private course is almost surreal.''
 Mr. Wilson said he did not see golf as a part of the village government's mission, particularly given that there are already two public courses close by: a 9-hole Nassau County course at Christopher Morley Park, which is within the village, and an 18-hole Town of North Hempstead course, Harbor Links.
 One of Deepdale's lawsuits points out that there are 51 golf courses within 15 miles of the village, 11 of them open to the public.
 The club filed one lawsuit in federal court in the Eastern District of New York, arguing that the village's eminent-domain proceedings would be unconstitutional and that a seizure of the club would not serve a legitimate public purpose. 
 ''Deepdale is not a blighted property,'' the complaint says. ''North Hills is not a blighted town. In fact, North Hills' publicly stated purpose for the condemnation -- to increase the value of private homes -- serves no public use whatsoever.''
 Theodore Mirvis, the club's lead lawyer in that case, said: ''If they are allowed to do this, then there's no limit to eminent domain at all. They could take my house or your house and turn it into a private dining club or a putting green, simply because the village board believed it would increase everybody else's housing values.''
 As it happens, Mr. Mirvis noted, Deepdale was displaced by eminent domain once already in its history. In 1955, the state took some of the land at its site at the time to build the Long Island Expressway. ''There was no dispute then, because that was a clear public use,'' he said. The club decided at that time to sell the rest of its old site, buy the Grace property and build a new course.
 Last June, the United States Supreme Court upheld the City of New London's right to condemn homes in an aging neighborhood to make way for a private development. That was seen as ''a high-water mark,'' Mr. Mirvis said, ''but this would go miles beyond that because there's no claim of distress.''
 But Mr. Natiss maintained that turning Deepdale into a village club would indeed be a public purpose. He said that two other nearby villages, Sands Point and Lake Success, had their own village clubs, though neither was acquired through condemnation. 
 Deepdale is so exclusive that ''my residents could not get in if they applied,'' the mayor said, even if they could afford the six-figure initiation fee and annual dues of about $10,000.
 One accusation in the lawsuit is that the village decided to go after Deepdale specifically because only one village resident belongs to the club. Mr. Wilson noted that the North Hills Country Club, 250 yards east of Deepdale, is also a private club in the village, but the village's deputy mayor is a member there.
 The second lawsuit was filed in State Supreme Court in Nassau County and accuses the village of misusing state incentive-zoning laws and cutting ''back-room deals with private developers'' to build up a war chest to pay for Deepdale.
 Such laws enable localities to give breaks to developers, like permission to build more homes than standard zoning would allow, in exchange for community benefits or amenities like open space, parks, low-cost housing or a cash payment if nothing like that is immediately feasible. 
 But the lawsuit claims that the village has essentially solicited cash payments from developers and failed to follow the law's review requirements.
 ''The Village Board has proven that it's willing to cut deals with the highest bidder to amass money for the golf course, without any regard to the environment, traffic congestion, or property taxes,'' said Mr. Mulholland, the club's lawyer.
 He was referring to one deal that landed the village in court last year. It had originally agreed to preserve an 18-acre triangle of wooded land in a special groundwater protection area, but then revoked the protective covenant to allow a developer to build 58 condominiums. In exchange, the developer gave the village $12 million, which officials said would go toward the purchase of Deepdale.
 Environmentalists sued unsuccessfully to stop the development and have now filed an appeal. The land, between the Expressway and the Northern State Parkway, was cleared late last year.
 Richard Amper, director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, said, ''If the village is willing to compromise drinking water for a golf course, then it doesn't surprise us that they would be willing to abuse condemnation law for the sake of a bunch of folks playing a game.''
 The lawsuit in state court also seeks to stop the village from completing another deal, allowing a developer to build 244 condominiums in exchange for a $21 million payment to the village. 
 Mayor Natiss said the village had done nothing illegal. The 244-unit complex is working its way through the approval process and is still subject to public hearings, he said.
 The mayor said that the club brings its own legal baggage to the battle, baggage that hints at the way the club does business. 
 Years ago, the club set up a private company to own the land and lease it to the club. A minority shareholder in the company has sued its board, claiming breach of fiduciary duty. That lawsuit argues that the company charges Deepdale an extremely low rent to help it keep annual dues down. 
 ''The shareholders who play golf get the economic benefit, but if you don't play golf, you get nothing,'' said John Halebian, a lawyer who represents Stuart Patrick, president of the securities firm Baird Patrick & Company and a shareholder of the real estate company, but not a club member. 
 Mr. Patrick's family owns 19 percent of the real estate company and wants a greater return on its investment.
 But Mr. Halebian said that the arrangement had also taken unfair advantage of smaller investors, like a former Deepdale groundskeeper who was urged to buy $2,000 in shares when the club faced hard times in the 1970's and never received a dividend. 
 A lawsuit that Mr. Halebian filed in state court on behalf of two small investors was dismissed, but Mr. Patrick's lawsuit is pending. Mr. Halebian said that his case would be helped if the village successfully acquired the club. ''We'd like to see the property sold, because then people would get some relief,'' he said.
 Mayor Natiss accused Deepdale of calling residents in recent weeks in a ''push poll,'' a tactic in which people are asked to participate in a survey that is actually designed to sway the opinion of the person being interviewed. He said residents were told that buying the club would raise property taxes by $6,000 a year, which he said was untrue. 
 But Deepdale officials said the polling was being done merely to read the pulse of the community and determine what people know about the issue. 
 Mr. Natiss nonetheless sent a letter to village residents last week, to ''tell residents that we will always do what's in the best interest of residents, regardless of any threats or attempts to intimidate us,'' he said.
 Mr. Wilson, the club member and village resident, said that the village's ''naked grab for private property'' was especially upsetting to him, because Deepdale has done a very good job in terms of developing a diverse membership and in terms of its employees.
 He mentioned that Sidney Poitier and Tiki Barber are members at Deepdale. ''We've done the right thing, while so many clubs haven't and are very prejudicial,'' he said. ''But nobody's trying to take their course.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Wilson is the only Deepdale member who lives in the Village of North Hills, which seeks to condemn the golf club by eminent domain. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Deepdale filed two lawsuits last week to block a condemnation. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Map of Long Island highlighting Deepdale Golf Club. (Satellite image by New York GIS via Google Earth)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); MAYORS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); PROPERTY LAW (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LAWYERS (70%); LITIGATION (66%); ZONING (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



236 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: Gas-Plant Foes Get Sympathy From Congress

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IT is one thing for environmental groups on Long Island and in Connecticut to say that the liquefied natural gas plant in Long Island Sound proposed by Broadwater Energy is not only a monstrously bad idea but also unnecessary. 
 It becomes something more when these grass-roots scrappers -- like Leah Lopez Schmalz of Save the Sound, in Norwalk; Donald S. Strait of the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, in New Haven; and Adrienne Esposito of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment, in Farmingdale -- say it with the backing of powerful politicians.
 The backing, in this case, has become quite literal. At a news conference in the Russell Senate Office Building in Washington last Thursday, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Joseph I. Lieberman and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrats of Connecticut, stood behind Ms. Esposito and Mr. Strait as they released a report by Synapse Energy Economics of Cambridge, Mass., that struck at Broadwater where it could hurt most. 
 The report, commissioned by the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, detailed why, in Synapse experts' view, the billion cubic feet a day of natural gas that Broadwater would provide is not needed and is hardly worth the industrialization of the Sound. Even if large volumes of new gas were ever required, the report said, two liquefied natural gas plants under construction in eastern Canada, each with capacity equal to Broadwater's, could deliver the gas through the regional pipeline system before Broadwater could be built.
 Broadwater disputed many of the assertions in the Synapse report, but the Washington moment was a high-water mark to date for environmentalists intent on stopping Broadwater. They said the deep-seated opposition to the project on both sides of the Sound increased their influence. 
 ''Up until now, it has been this wave of opposition based on the industrialization of the Sound and the environmental impacts,'' said Ms. Schmalz, who was in the wings at the news conference. ''Now for the first time we actually have concrete evidence that shows Broadwater is not necessary.''
 Broadwater, a partnership of Shell and the Trans-Canada Corporation, filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Jan. 30 to build the plant, which would be about the size of the Queen Mary 2, and float about 9 miles from Wading River in New York and 11 miles from New Haven. It is asking for a decision by next March.
 The Bush administration strongly supports liquefied natural gas projects, and recent changes in federal law increased the authority of the commission to approve projects, even when state and local governments object.
 Mr. Strait of the Connecticut Fund for the Environment said that Bush administration support for such projects and the diminished powers of states to oppose them made stopping Broadwater more challenging. But Mr. Strait said the Synapse report could help turn the tide. 
 ''Long Island Sound is a resource that we have to protect, and this report gives us a great tool to do that,'' he said.
 Mr. Strait, a lawyer from Stamford, grew up in Fairfield and said he has been involved in public-interest environmental work since graduating from Harvard Law School in 1985. He worked for the Natural Resources Defense Council in Manhattan before joining the Connecticut Fund for the Environment in 1990. He became its executive director, a paid position, in 1992.
 Ms. Schmalz is a lawyer in Guilford and a graduate of Pace University Law School. Because of her desire to practice environmental law, Ms. Schmalz, who grew up in Louisiana, answered an advertisement from Save the Sound seeking a lawyer and has worked there for the past four and a half years. She is now the group's director of legislative and legal affairs. 
 Ms. Schmalz said the two Connecticut groups believed that the Broadwater proposal had immense consequences for Long Island Sound and the region as soon as it was announced, in November 2004. ''It really did leap out as something that had to be dealt with. There was really no other option,'' she said. 
 Ms. Schmalz and Ms. Esposito of Citizens Campaign for the Environment, an early opponent of the project on Long Island, knew each other from serving on the citizens advisory council of the Long Island Sound Study, a program of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Early on, Ms. Schmalz said, they recognized the benefits of a combined Long Island-Connecticut campaign to stop the Broadwater project. The opponents are loosely organized as the Sound Alliance in Connecticut and as the Anti-Broadwater Coalition on Long Island.
 Ms. Esposito, of Patchogue, has a degree in geology from C. W. Post College, and she helped found Citizens Campaign for the Environment in 1985. She became executive director of the group two and a half years ago. 
 Citizens Campaign says it has about 80,000 members and contributors, most of them in New York but some in Connecticut.
 Save the Sound and the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, which merged last year, claim about 6,450 members in Connecticut and New York. 
 Ms. Esposito said the cooperation between the Connecticut and Long Island groups had surpassed expectations. ''I have never seen anything like this bistate, bipartisan collaboration on a single issue,'' she said.
 The groups are made up primarily of volunteers. One is Sid Bail, the president of the Wading River Civic Association, the first Long Island group to oppose the project. He keeps Ms. Esposito and others advised about new postings about Broadwater on the federal energy commission's Web site. 
 Ms. Schmalz, Ms. Esposito and other project opponents said that Washington was now the battlefield. They will meet with House and Senate staff members there next Friday at a session arranged by Mrs. Clinton's office to lay out strategy. 
 The environmental groups said they had found Senate and House staff members receptive to their efforts to line up political opposition to Broadwater. Mr. Strait said the groups' success was a clear sign that the elected officials knew public opinion was running against the project.
 The groups also said they would press for Congressional officials to go beyond statements of opposition. 
 ''With Broadwater, it's easy to say the right thing,'' said Richard Amper, the executive director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, in Riverhead. ''But the object of the game is to kill the project, not just be politically correct.''
 John Hritcko, the regional project director for Broadwater in Riverhead, said the company encourages debate about its project but believes the federal commission proceeding was the forum for it. 
 He also said the Synapse report erred in its assessment of need and overestimated the availability of gas supplies from eastern Canada. 
 ''The contention that there is no need for natural gas in this region flies in the face of energy providers and planners who recognize that need,'' Mr. Hritcko said, referring to the New York metropolitan area. 
 He said Broadwater's filing with the federal commission clearly established need and other benefits, including lower energy costs. 
 Michael Rieke, the managing editor of Platts LNG Daily, a trade publication based in Houston, said the opponents' argument that Broadwater was not needed would have little influence on the federal regulators. 
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission does not base its decisions about terminals on market conditions, Mr. Rieke said: ''They are leaving it up to the market to decide.'' 
 Still, the politicians are weighing in.
 Among the two states' senators, only Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, was absent from last Thursday's event. But Mr. Schumer, who said he had a scheduling conflict, was the first of the four senators to oppose Broadwater.
 Mr. Lieberman completed the senatorial sweep last month when he announced that the project ''represents a trade-off between environmental protection and economic health that we just do not have to make.'' 
 Mr. Dodd first expressed reservations about the project in July, saying he was concerned it would thwart cleanup activities in the Sound.
 Mrs. Clinton announced her opposition in August at a well-attended event next to the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant. 
 Four House members -- Democrats Timothy Bishop of Southampton and Steve Israel of Huntington on Long Island, Democrat Rosa L. DeLauro of New Britain and Republican Rob Simmons of Stonington in Connecticut -- also attended the news conference in Washington. Mr. Bishop, whose district includes parts of eastern Long Island nearest the site of the proposed floating plant, has been a leading critic of the project.
 Two other Connecticut representatives, Republican Christopher Shays of Bridgeport and Democrat John B. Larson of West Hartford, have also opposed the project, as have many local governments and civic and environmental groups in the two states.
 Representative Peter T. King of Seaford, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, has not taken a position on the project. He is arguably the most influential Republican in the Long Island and Connecticut delegations.
 ''I am closely monitoring the Broadwater proposal, and as chairman on the Committee on Homeland Security I will continue to examine security risks of any L.N.G. facility,'' Mr. King said in a statement released by his office on Tuesday.
 Philip Dodge, an energy analyst for the Stanford Group, in Boca Raton, Fla., said he doubted that Congressional opposition would alter the outcome of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission proceeding. 
 ''F.E.R.C. just looks at whether they have complied with all the rules and regulations,'' Mr. Dodge said. ''It generally believes there is a tremendous need for L.N.G., so they would err on the side of over-approval.''
 But he added that strong opposition could prolong the approval process and put Broadwater in the position of ''possibly eventually giving up.'' 
 Broadwater continues to rebut its opponents' contentions, however. 
 Mr. Hritcko cited published reports that one of the Canadian plants cited in the Synapse report, the Bear Head L.N.G. terminal that is under construction on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, was in jeopardy because its owner, the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, could not find gas suppliers on the international market. A company spokeswoman confirmed the difficulty. 
 Mr. Strait said that the existence of gas from the two Canadian plants was made public by the Synapse report and was never mentioned by Broadwater in its assessment of need. He said Anadarko's difficulties obtaining supplies of natural gas upheld findings in the Synapse report that liquefied natural gas was not abundant or inexpensive.
 But Mr. Dodge, the energy analyst, said supply for Broadwater was not very likely to be a problem because Shell had resources including ownership of a gas supply in Nigeria. Broadwater says gas would also be supplied from Norway, Russia and Trinidad and Tobago.
 Broadwater opponents, meanwhile, said that the power of public opinion should not be sold short. ''To do that is to lose our essential belief in democracy,'' Ms. Esposito said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two opponents of a Long Island Sound gas plant, Donald S. Strait, second from left, and Adrienne Esposito, getting support in Washington last week. (Photo by Andrew Cutraro for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A rendering of the proposed liquid natural gas plant in Long Island Sound. (Photo by Broadwater Energy)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



237 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12

China Debates Socialism, Again
China's National People's Congress, the Communist Party-run legislature now in its annual two-week session, is consumed with an ideological debate over socialism and capitalism that many assumed had been buried by China's fast economic growth. 1

Inside Hussein's War Room 

A classified United States military report and other documents demonstrate how Saddam Hussein was so preoccupied with concerns of a Shiite uprising that he crippled his military's ability to fight the threat from the United States. Fearful of revolt, Mr. Hussein was deeply distrustful of his own commanders and soldiers. 1

A day-by-day reconstruction of Mr. Hussein's whereabouts shows that his movements during the invasion were desperate and improvised and that American intelligence knew little about his location. 4

Signs of Torture on American
Tom Fox, the kidnapped American peace worker whose body was found this week, had apparently been tortured by his captors before being shot multiple times in the head and dumped on a trash heap next to a railway line in western Baghdad, an official at the Iraqi Interior Ministry said. 10

U.S. May Resume Assistance
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice indicated that the United States would look for ways to resume military assistance to Latin American nations cut off because of their refusal to shield Americans from the International Criminal Court. 6

New Leader for Chile
Michelle Bachelet, a Socialist and former political prisoner and exile, was sworn in as the first woman to be Chile's president, culminating the country's long journey from dictatorship to democracy. She won 53.5 percent of the vote in a runoff in January. 6

NATIONAL 14-33

Republicans Voice Concerns
Republicans gathering in Memphis were acutely concerned with the election ahead and distressed by the White House's performance since President Bush's re-election. Prospective presidential candidates wrestled with how much to associate their campaigns with an increasingly unpopular president. 1

Navy Tomcats Come Home
The Navy's last two F-14 squadrons came home, ending the final combat deployment of the cold-war-era, two-seater fighter jet with moveable, swept-back wings that was glamorized in the 1986 movie ''Top Gun.'' 26

Missouri in Stem Cell Debate
A ballot proposal promoting embryonic stem cell research is turning conservatives against one another and threatening to tear apart the Republican Party in Missouri at the height of its modern-day influence. 16

On Bush Adviser's Arrest
The arrest on theft charges of Claude A. Allen, a top Bush adviser and one of the highest ranking African-Americans on the White House staff, was an apparent fall from power that surprised and mystified his friends and former colleagues. 30

Ventilator Crisis for Bird Flu
Public health experts agree that if the avian flu virus leads to a human pandemic, the nation's hospitals will not have enough ventilators for patients. But hospitals say they cannot afford to buy machines that may never be used. 24

OBITUARIES 34-35

Slobodan Milosevic
Slobodan Milosevic, the Communist leader whose embrace of Serbian nationalism set off almost a decade of Balkan warfare, was found dead in his cell at the United Nations detention center in The Hague, where he had been since 2001. He was 64. 34

NEW YORK/REGION 37-43

Happy Birthday for the Savoy
Nearly 50 years after it closed, the Savoy Ballroom lives on in memories. People who danced or played music at the Savoy are gathering to celebrate the landmark's birthday. 37

Levine Out for the Season
James Levine, the music director of the Metropolitan Opera, needs shoulder surgery and has been forced to pull out of the rest of the season, the opera company said. 39

Chess 42
Weather 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TORTURE (88%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); LARCENY & THEFT (64%); REFERENDUMS (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); MICHELLE BACHELET (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHILE (92%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



238 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: The Golden Hour 

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
Gilding the lily may be fine for some, but a confluence of artists seem suddenly more interested in gilding ordinary objects. And a little leaf apparently goes a long way: applied to the most practical of items, it marks a cultural convergence, it sanctifies consumer electronics or does the one thing gold can be counted on to do in any setting: it gets itself stolen. ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

ARTIST -- Aaron Young 

WORK -- ''IPO (30 offerings)'' at the Whitney Biennial.
GOLDEN TALE -- The day after the show opened, Aaron Young got good news: one of the pieces he made for it had been stolen. ''IPO (30 offerings)'' was a fully functioning, tricked-out bicycle with gold-plated fenders, a gold and chrome kickstand and other flourishes that made it worth $1,200, Mr. Young estimated. All 30 bike parts were locked to a rack outside the Whitney Museum and stolen, piece by piece, over three days. ''I think of it as a collaboration with one thief or many thieves,'' said Mr. Young, who plans similar displays this month in Central Park and Berlin. ''On the street, things break down into their own economies, and the bike is a complete economy that breaks down into parts, so that the golden fender ends up on one bike and someone else gets the handlebars. That's the kind of thing I like to daydream about.''

ARTIST -- Jane Philbrick
WORK -- ''Voix/e'' in the ''Media Miniature'' group show, opening Friday at the Pratt Manhattan Gallery.
GOLDEN TALE -- IPods may be a prized possession, but they are not exactly sacred, at least not in the Old Testament sense, and that was a problem for Ms. Philbrick, a sound artist who recorded the parts of both the bride and the groom in the biblical poem cycle ''Song of Solomon.'' When it came to presenting the nine-minute piece on a small iPod Shuffle, Ms. Philbrick said, the device lacked a certain aesthetic something. ''I wanted to give the iPod this notion of a heightened ecclesiastical presence, and I thought of those gildings the church does to create the sacred.'' Thus her golden earbuds, 14-karat covers using $140 in gold. Though she has been urged to mass-produce them, she has no such plans.

ARTIST -- Sanford Biggers
WORK -- ''Nunchucks'' at the Mary Goldman Gallery in Los Angeles.
GOLDEN TALE -- Mr. Biggers made his first ''Nunchucks,'' which are gold-plated with plexiglass handles that light up, for the ''Black Belt'' show at the Studio Museum of Harlem in 2003. The piece, he said, embodies the convergence of black and Asian youth culture: think of the rap group Wu-Tang Clan. He said that making nunchucks, traditionally associated with Asian culture, out of gold was ''a direct hip-hop reference by glorifying the bling-bling.'' He made the same connection, but in reverse, with jewelry melted down and made into Shinto meditation bowls. The last of his three ''Nunchucks'' is at the Mary Goldman Gallery. The $5,000 price includes four AA batteries to power the handles.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (68%); RELIGION (67%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (62%) Art; Gold

PERSON: Andrew Adam Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



239 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Two Tiers, Two Futures?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Two Tiers, Slipping Into One'' (Feb. 26), about the wage structure that provides much lower pay for newly hired employees: 
 Where will two-tier wage policies like Caterpillar's, as well as cutbacks affecting rank-and-file workers at other companies, lead us in the future?
 As "a son of Caterpillar," I have enjoyed the benefits of the labors of my father and mother, who worked at Cat for a total of 70 years, mostly as members of U.A.W. Local 974. Our family has had no concerns about medical bills or losing our home because of Caterpillar's economic ups and downs. Today, however, the rank and file at many companies have had to accept such concerns as their subsidy of their employers' so-called new competitiveness.
 Only time will tell if this new social contract has been written in the best interests of those most affected by it.

John S. Patterson
Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., Feb. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: John S Patterson

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



240 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar May Tumble, but It's O.K. to Shrug 

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
INVESTORS have no shortage of economic and geopolitical issues to worry about. But a declining dollar may not deserve a high place on their list.
 Concern about the stock market fallout from a possible sharp fall in the dollar may trace back to memories of the 1987 stock market crash. Many people attributed that plunge -- the largest one-day percentage drop in United States stock market history -- to the Reagan administration's apparent willingness, and even eagerness, to let the dollar's foreign exchange value decline.
Traumatic as that experience was -- and even if investors were correct in blaming the Reagan administration's monetary policies for the crash -- it is dangerous to draw any generalizations from a sample size of just one. And from a purely statistical point of view, there has been a very weak historical correlation between fluctuations in the dollar and the stock market's ups and downs. 
 Recent research explains, at least in part, why this correlation is so weak. It was conducted by Mahesh Pritamani, a senior research analyst at the Frank Russell Company, and two finance professors at the Pamplin College of Business at Virginia Tech: Dilip K. Shome and Vijay Singal. They presented their findings in an article in the summer 2005 issue of the Journal of Applied Corporate Finance.
 According to the researchers, the domestic stock market has become increasingly dominated over the years by multinational companies whose costs of operations, as well as sales, are denominated in many currencies in addition to the dollar. That means these multinational companies are largely immune to the effects of currency fluctuations, the researchers say. When one part of such a company's operations is hurt by a change in the value of the dollar, other parts benefit, leaving relatively little net effect on the bottom line.
 If the dollar fell in value against other major currencies, for example, the domestic sales of multinational companies based in the United States would probably suffer. That is because a declining currency is often associated with a weakening domestic economy, the researchers said. But these companies would make up for at least part of that domestic weakness by reaping higher sales overseas, because their goods and services would now be cheaper when priced in foreign currencies.
 The greater immunity of multinationals to currency fluctuations helps to explain several curious features of the historical record. It turns out, for example, that the correlation between the dollar and the stock market has been declining over the years. Professor Singal says he believes that a big reason for this trend is the increase in international diversification among the largest companies.
 In the 1970's, he said, fewer American companies enjoyed the immunity that international diversification confers. As a result, they were more vulnerable to dollar declines like the one that occurred in that decade. He suspects that the largest multinationals would be much less affected if a similar decline occurred today.
 The increasing diversification of big companies also explains why small-capitalization stock indexes are more correlated with fluctuations in the dollar's value than are large-cap indexes. A greater proportion of smaller companies' operations and sales are conducted within the United States, according to the researchers. And because a falling dollar is associated with a weakening domestic economy, it makes sense that those small caps are more vulnerable to a decline in the dollar.
 Nevertheless, the researchers emphasize that the major stock market benchmarks will be relatively unaffected by what happens to these smaller companies. That is because those benchmarks give the greatest weight to the largest companies -- the ones that tend to be most diversified internationally and therefore most immune to currency fluctuations. The 50 largest publicly traded companies in the United States, all with significant international diversification, account for 41 percent of the combined market value of the entire domestic stock market, according to the Frank Russell Company.
 Professor Singal acknowledges that the largest multinationals may not be completely immune to a dollar decline. If a sharp slowdown in economic growth in the United States sets off a global recession, for example, those multinationals may not be able to make up in foreign sales what they lose domestically. But even then, it would not be clear to what extent the declining dollar caused the slowdown in the United States or instead was a result of it. 
 What, then, is the bottom line for investors? Those who try to anticipate the stock market's gyrations won't gain much insight by analyzing the dollar. And even if they know when and by how much the dollar will fall, it is unlikely that they will be significantly better at timing the stock market.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Full Circle''Compared with the currencies of its major trading partners, trade-weighted and adjusted for inflation, the dollar is more or less at the same level it was in the early 1970's.MARCH 30, 1973 = 100Graph tracks foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar, relative to its major trading partners since 1973.(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); HISTORY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MONETARY POLICY (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Research; Currency; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Frank Russell Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%)

PERSON: Mahesh Pritamani; Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



241 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: A Poverty Line That's Out of Date and Out of Favor

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
BEFORE every flight, pilots reset the altimeter of their aircraft to match the elevation of the local airport. If they didn't, the altimeter reading would gradually diverge from the true measure, endangering the safety of all aboard. 
 It's no different for economic statistics. When they are not updated, the subjects they once measured can become obscured.
A good example is the poverty line, the nation's official measure of need. Economists have long argued that the poverty line should be revised to provide an accurate picture of who is actually poor. Yet it has remained essentially untouched since 1963, when Mollie Orshansky, an economist at the Social Security Administration, first came up with it. 
 Today, there is a consensus among economists that it is no longer on the mark. ''Everyone agrees we need a better measure,'' said Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland. 
 To him and many others, the public lacks an accurate test of who is poor, making it far harder to justify actions, whether by government or by individuals, intended to alleviate poverty.
 No one blames Ms. Orshansky. She devised a simple and elegant measure of poverty based on the data available at the time. And she never expected that it would be used today as a trigger for billions of dollars in government spending. 
 Her method was to use the cost of a nutritionally adequate diet as the basis for a cost-of-living estimate and to adjust for families of various sizes and compositions. 
 Using data from the late 1950's, she estimated that families spent about one-third of their income on food, on average. To come up with a poverty threshold, she multiplied the cost of the nutritionally adequate diet by three. 
 Each year, the official threshold is adjusted for inflation. The poverty line for a single person under 65 is now $10,160 in annual income, before taxes; for a family of four, it's $19,806. According to the United States Census Bureau, the total number of Americans living in poverty in 2004 was 37 million.
 The thresholds have risen over the years to reflect broad price changes, but the assumptions made by Ms. Orshansky remain intact. 
 Still, much has changed since the 1950's. Today, families spend something close to 12 percent of income on food, for example, not one-third. And while some of the remaining 88 percent may go to nonessentials, items such as housing, transportation and health care are significant, and expensive, factors. 
 Much is at stake. The poverty line is widely viewed as an indicator of social progress. A decline in poverty is seen as a national achievement, and an increase in poverty as a sign of problems. 
 Day to day, the poverty measure directly affects the lives of millions of Americans. At least $60 billion in federal aid annually is linked to the poverty measure, and $260 billion or so in Medicaid spending takes it into account. At the state and local level, thousands of government programs use the poverty line to determine eligibility. 
 So why hasn't such an important statistic been updated to reflect modern conditions? The answer is politics. Thanks to a quirk of history, the poverty indicator, unlike many other economic statistics, is not under the jurisdiction of an authoritative statistical agency like the Bureau of Economic Analysis or the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Instead, it resides in perhaps the most political place of all: the office of the president. And during the last four decades, no president of either party has wanted to draw attention to a statistic that the nation has come to take for granted, especially if updating it might cause the number of people regarded as living in poverty to increase.
 Ideology, meanwhile, has muddied the debate about how to improve the poverty count. Some experts have tended to advocate adjustments that raise the poverty line, while others prefer ways that decrease it. 
 This kind of goal-seeking has led many experts to throw up their hands in defeat. ''I've come to the conclusion that the official measure is set in stone,'' Professor Besharov said. He suggests keeping the official measure in place while introducing additional ways of tracking poverty.
 But why not insist on an official yardstick that works -- especially when obvious improvements can readily be made?
 Rebecca M. Blank, dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan and a professor of economics, says she thinks that such a yardstick is possible. 
 She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences panel on poverty and family assistance, which in 1995 conducted the latest official comprehensive study on the topic. 
 She has found that while no single statistic perfectly captures all of those living in poverty, some straightforward steps could be taken to improve the official indicator. ''We really can have a measure today that conceptually makes sense,'' she said.
 Ms. Blank says three changes would provide much help. First, refine what's meant by income. The current gauge uses a family's pretax income. Instead, most economists agree that taxes should be subtracted and near-cash income, such as food stamps, should be added in. 
 A little less clear is how to deal with the effects of mandatory work expenses, like those for transportation and child care, on income. But Ms. Blank argues that the profession has good tools to come up with reasonable estimates for both. 
 Her second step would be to update existing thresholds to take into account not only food but also housing, clothing and out-of-pocket medical costs. 
 And finally, she said, the scales that are used to adjust for differences in family size and composition should be more precise. These steps are largely consistent with recommendations of the National Academy of Sciences report. 
 The Census Bureau has been tracking alternative measures derived from the academy's recommendations. The bureau found that if such measures had been used in 2003, the latest period for which alternative statistics are available, the poverty rate would have risen about two percentage points above the official rate of 12.5 percent. That's not a big adjustment in percentage terms, but it would add more than five million people to the current poverty count.
 Fortunately for a vast majority of Americans, the exact placement of the poverty line is not a matter of everyday concern. That's why it hasn't been a big priority for presidents. But for some Americans living under economic stress who are not now considered poor, updating the gauge could make a tangible difference. 
 Perhaps the first step in resetting the safety net's altimeter is to take the poverty measure out of the White House and put it in the hands of professional statisticians.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Revising the Poverty Measure''A method for calculating the poverty line proposed by the National Academy of Sciences in a 1995 study would classify more people as poor than the one currently used.PERCENT OF POPULATION BELOW THE POVERTY LINEGraph tracks percentage of population below the poverty line calculated by current method and by N.A.S.-proposed method from 1999 to 2003.(Source by United States Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CENSUS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); PRICE CHANGES (64%) United States Economy; Statistics; Income; United States Politics and Government; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Food; United States Economy

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%) University of Michigan

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Mollie Orshansky; Rebecca M Blank; George W (Pres) Bush; Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



242 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Strangers on a Trail

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio

 BODY:
IS this a romantic scene, or what? A lonely hiker, making his moody way along a scenic ridge on the border of England and Wales, comes across a strikingly handsome woman taking in the view. After they exchange a few pleasantries, she suddenly poses an existential question: ''Can any of us ever stop being what we are and become something else?'' Struck by her intensity, he assures her that new beginnings are, indeed, possible. But when this enigmatic stranger offers him a ride into town, the hiker refuses and pushes on alone -- never to forget the woman and to regret forever his chance to share in the new life she envisioned. 
Robert Goddard spins this fleeting encounter into a hypnotic tale of romantic obsession in BORROWED TIME (Delta, paper, $12) by drawing that fainthearted hiker, Robin Timariot, into a posthumous relationship with the woman, Louise Paxton, who within hours of their meeting up on the ridge was raped and murdered in the cottage of an artist known locally as a bounder. By withholding information about her state of mind, Timariot misdirects the police investigation, resulting in the conviction of a possibly innocent man. And by positioning himself as a friend to Lady Paxton's husband and the confidant of her two naive daughters, he is able to share in the secret life of a dead woman he comes to love. Although hardly healthy, the arrangement is sexy.
 Goddard is one of those cunning storytellers who can twist a bundle of narrative threads into a hangman's noose, which is essentially what he does here when these high-strung, sexually repressed characters begin to choke on their own romantic lies. While the murders, suicides and acts of vengeance that round out the story are surely excessive (and in at least one instance, psychologically unsound), his silken style can sweep aside even the strongest reader's resistance.
 With the author's new American publisher preparing a blitz of previously unavailable titles, it's worth examining the mainspring of his achingly romantic fictions -- a male narrator awakened to life by an encounter with an unattainable woman. These heroes tend to be knocked off their pins by beautiful women who dare to go where the men fear to tread. ''She was on the brink,'' Goddard says of Lady Paxton. ''She was about to step off. Into the void.'' In another novel, ''Into the Blue,'' an adventurous young Englishwoman coaxes an older man to climb a mountain in Greece and then disappears, confounding ''the orderly, house-trained, rational'' side of his mind and leaving him open to ''the chaotic realm of instinct and sensation.''
 This sort of thing is always happening to women in romantic-suspense fiction. It's just fun to see a man losing his wits for a change.
 As we know from the novels of Scandinavian authors like Henning Mankell and Karin Fossum, murder in a cold climate can chill you to the bone. The chill is on in THE PRINCESS OF BURUNDI (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's Minotaur, $23.95), which won Kjell Eriksson a best-crime-novel citation from the Swedish Crime Academy for its stunning depiction of the impact of murder on a working-class community in the old cathedral town of Uppsala. Neighbors are shocked and a family is devastated by the savage killing of John Jonsson, a skilled metalworker whose carved-up body is found in a county snow dump shortly before Christmas -- ''the time of darkness,'' in the haunting phrase of the translator, Ebba Segerberg. As the son of a construction worker, Ola Haver, a police detective, has a natural compassion for people who live a bit rough but perform their hard jobs with pride. He and his fellow officers couldn't be more sensitive as they probe these marginal lives for clues and reflect sadly on the breakdown of the strong cultural resistance to lawlessness that once made Swedes feel safe. The ''homespun theories'' of these working-class cops about ''the burden of guilt and the inadequacies of our society'' lend a melancholy chill to the holiday rituals Eriksson observes with such tender solemnity.
 Nothing is more irritating than a crime story that is shoved off the page by the private life of the detective. That doesn't apply, however, when the detective's life is itself the story, as happens to be the case with Rebecca Pawel's splendid historical series set in Spain in the aftermath of the civil war and featuring a Falangist police officer who is married to a former schoolteacher and ardent Socialist. The ideological tension between Lt. Carlos Tejada and his loving but outspoken wife, Elena, is very much the heart of this series, which takes an inspired turn in THE SUMMER SNOW (Soho, $23) when Tejada is summoned from his bleak mountain post to solve the murder of his dowager aunt back home in Granada. The family visit is fraught with pain for Tejada and social peril for Elena, dismissed as ''a penniless foreign Red'' by her aristocratic in-laws. After this ordeal, the couple can't wait to get back to the mountains, where all they have to contend with are bandits, smugglers and guerrillas.
 Fire-and-brimstone preachers are not welcome in Toussaint, the rusty-dusty cattle town in the high plains of Montana where Peter Bowen sets his idiosyncratic folk mysteries. But anyone can shoot off his mouth in the saloon where Gabriel Du Pre, a metis Indian who keeps the peace with saintly wisdom and earthy humor, hangs out with his friends. The talk is more politically pungent than usual in NAILS (St. Martin's Minotaur, $23.95), what with a native son back from Iraq missing important body parts, a fundamentalist Christian sect from Texas haranguing teachers and the local economy fraying at the seams. Even Toussaint's beloved atheist priest is unnerved by the hatred and anger swirling around town. ''They are terrified and humiliated,'' he says of ''all the little people'' who feel cut off and powerless. ''Makes them dangerous.'' Want to know what's going on in the heartland? Read a mystery.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Goddard (Photograph by Jane Bown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HIKING (90%); MURDER (87%); SUICIDE (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (71%); LITERATURE (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); WRITERS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); PUBLISHING (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Marilyn Stasio; Robert Goddard; Kjell Eriksson; Rebecca Pawel; Peter Bowen

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (91%); WALES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



243 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; YOUNG ADULT FICTION; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Wild Things

BYLINE: By Naomi Wolf. 
Naomi Wolf is the author, most recently, of ''The Treehouse: Eccentric Wisdom From My Father on How to Live, Love and See.''

 BODY:
These books look cute. They come in matched paperback sets with catchy titles, and stay for weeks on the children's books best-seller list. They carry no rating or recommended age range on the cover, but their intended audience -- teenage girls -- can't be in doubt. They feature sleek, conventionally beautiful girls lounging, getting in or out of limos, laughing and striking poses. Any parent -- including me -- might put them in the Barnes & Noble basket without a second glance.
Yet if that parent opened one, he or she might be in for a surprise. The ''Gossip Girl,'' ''A-List'' and ''Clique'' series -- the most successful in a crowded field of Au Pairs, It Girls and other copycat series -- represent a new kind of young adult fiction, and feature a different kind of heroine. In these novels, which have dominated the field of popular girls' fiction in recent years, Carol Gilligan's question about whether girls can have ''a different voice'' has been answered -- in a scary way. 
 In Lisi Harrison's ''Clique'' novels, set in suburban Westchester, the characters are 12 and 13 years old, but there are no girlish identity crises, no submissiveness to parents or anyone else. These girls are empowered. But they are empowered to hire party planners, humiliate the ''sluts'' in their classes ('' 'I'm sorry, I'm having a hard time understanding what you're saying,' Massie snapped. 'I don't speak Slut' '') and draw up a petition calling for the cafeteria ladies serving their lunch to get manicures. 
 The ''Clique'' novels are all about status. But sex saturates the ''Gossip Girl'' books, by Cecily von Ziegesar, which are about 17- and 18-year-old private school girls in Manhattan. This is not the frank sexual exploration found in a Judy Blume novel, but teenage sexuality via Juicy Couture, blase and entirely commodified. In ''Nothing Can Keep Us Together,'' Nate has sex with Serena in a Bergdorf's dressing room: ''Nate was practically bursting as he followed Serena. . . . He grabbed her camisole and yanked it away from her body, ripping it entirely in half. . . . 'Remember when we were in the tub at my house, the summer before 10th grade?' . . . 'Yes!' 'Oh, yes!' . . . Nate began to cry as soon as it was over. The Viagra had worn off just in time.'' 
 The ''A-List'' novels, by Zoey Dean (a pseudonym for a married writing team hired by the media packager 17th Street Productions, which created all three series and sold them to Little, Brown), are spinoffs of the ''Gossip Girl'' series. Now we're on the West Coast, among a group of seniors from Beverly Hills High. Here is Anna, in Las Vegas for the weekend with her posse: ''Was there any bliss quite like the first five minutes in a hot tub? Well, yes, actually. Ben. Sex with Ben had been that kind of bliss. . . . Would sex with Scott offer that kind of bliss?'' Her best friend, Cyn, also has feelings for Scott: ''She'd shed a lot of her usual wild-child ways as soon as they'd hooked up. No more stealing guys with wedding rings away from their wives just because she could. . . . No more getting wasted at parties and dirty dancing with handsome waiters . . . . No more taking E,'' or ecstasy, at nightclubs. 
 But anything can get old eventually. Cyn offers Anna this world-weary romantic guidance: ''We used to jump each other, like, three times a night. When we went out to the movies, we'd sit by a wall and do it during the boring parts.'' She recommends ''semi-sex'' -- not oral sex, because ''that is so over'' -- behind a statue at MoMA. 
 Unfortunately for girls, these novels reproduce the dilemma they experience all the time: they are expected to compete with pornography, but can still be labeled sluts. In ''Invasion of the Boy Snatchers,'' the fourth novel in the ''Clique'' series, Lisi Harrison reproduces misogynist scenarios of other girls shaming and humiliating a girl who is deemed ''slutty'' -- Nina, an exchange student from Spain. When Harrison writes that Nina's ''massive boobs jiggled,'' you know she is doomed to the Westchester equivalent of a scarlet letter. 
 Though ''Rainbow Party'' got all the attention last year -- that was the novel about oral sex in which the characters even sounded like porn stars: Hunter, Rod and Rusty -- kids didn't buy it, literally. In spite of a shiny, irresistible cover showing a row of candy-colored lipsticks, it was a book more reported about than read. 
 But teenagers, or their parents, do buy the bad-girls books -- the ''Clique,'' ''Gossip Girl'' and ''A-List'' series have all sold more than a million copies. And while the tacky sex scenes in them are annoying, they aren't really the problem. The problem is a value system in which meanness rules, parents check out, conformity is everything and stressed-out adult values are presumed to be meaningful to teenagers. The books have a kitsch quality -- they package corruption with a cute overlay. 
 In the world of the ''A-List'' or ''Clique'' girl, inverting Austen (and Alcott), the rich are right and good simply by virtue of their wealth. Seventh graders have Palm Pilots, red Coach clutches, Visas and cellphones in Prada messenger bags. Success and failure are entirely signaled by material possessions -- specifically, by brands. You know the new girl in the ''Clique'' novel ''Best Friends for Never'' is living in social limbo when she shops at J. Crew and wears Keds, and her mother drives a dreaded Taurus rather than a Lexus. In ''Back in Black'' the group of ''A-List'' teenagers spends a weekend at ''the Palms Hotel and Casino''; brands are so prominent you wonder if there are product placement deals: ''Vanity Fair always prepared giveaway baskets. . . . Last year's had contained a Dell portable jukebox, a bottle of Angel perfume by Thierry Mugler and a PalmOne Treo 600 Smartphone.'' (The copyright page of the latest ''Gossip Girl'' book lists credits for the clothing featured on the cover: ''gold sequined top -- Iris Singer, peach dress -- Bibelot@Susan Greenstadt,'' and so on.) 
 In these novels, the world of wealthy parents is characteristically seen as corrupt and opportunistic -- but the kids have no problem with that. In the ''A-List'' novels, power is all about favors: ''Orlando Bloom was next door with Jude Law, and Sam knew him from a dinner party her father had hosted to raise money for the Kerry campaign.'' As Anna challenges a young would-be writer, Scott, ''Do you think you only got published in The Times because your mother called in a favor?'' 
 The mockery the books direct toward their subjects is not the subversion of adult convention traditionally found in young adult novels. Instead they scorn anyone who is pathetic enough not to fit in. In the ''Clique'' novels, the ''pretty committee,'' dominated by the lead bitch-goddess, Massie, is made up of the cool kids of their elite girls school. They terrorize the ''losers'' below them in the social hierarchy: it's like ''Lord of the Flies'' set in the local mall, without the moral revulsion. 
 The girls move through the school in what has become, in movies like ''Mean Girls'' and ''Clueless,'' a set piece for nasty cool-girl drama: they are ''striking and confident in their matching costumes . . . like a gang of sexy fembots on a mission to take over suburbia.'' In the classic tradition of young adult fiction, Massie would be the villain, and Claire, the newcomer who first appears as an L.B.R., or ''Loser Beyond Repair,'' would be the heroine: she is the one girl with spunk, curiosity and age-appropriate preoccupations. Claire and her family live in the guesthouse of the wealthy Block family; Claire's mother is friends with Massie's mother, but her father seems to be employed by Massie's father in an uneasily dependent relationship. In Jane Austen or Charlotte Bronte, that economic dependency on the ''great house'' would signal that the heroine stands in opposition to the values of that mansion. Yet Claire's whole journey, in class terms, is to gravitate into the mansion. She abandons her world of innocence and integrity -- in which children respect parents, are honest and like candy -- to embrace her eventual success as one of the school's elite, lying to and manipulating parents, having contempt for teachers and humiliating social rivals. 
 Over the course of the series, Claire learns to value her own poorer but closer-knit family less than she did before. Indeed, she pushes her father into greater economic dependence on the rich patrons, absorbing Massie's shopping tastes and learning to disdain her mother's clothing. Veronica and Betty morph into mistresses of the universe, wearing underwear to school with the words ''kiss it'' on the rear. 
 Since women have been writing for and about girls, the core of the tradition has been the opposition between the rebel and the popular, often wealthy antiheroine. Sara Crewe in Frances Hodgson Burnett's ''Little Princess'' loses her social standing and is tormented by the school's alpha girls, but by the end of the story we see them brought low. In ''Little Women,'' Jo March's criticism of ''ladylike'' social norms is challenged by an invitation to a ball; while Meg, the eldest girl, is taken in by the wealthy daughters of the house and given a makeover -- which is meant to reveal not her victory as a character but her weakness. 
 This tradition carried on powerfully through the 20th century. Even modern remakes, like ''Clueless,'' show the popular, superficial girl undergoing a humbling and an awakening, as she begins to question her allegiance to conformity and status. 
 In the ''Clique'' and ''Gossip Girl'' novels, meanwhile, every day is Freaky Friday. The girls try on adult values and customs as though they were going to wear them forever. The narratives offer the perks of the adult world not as escapist fantasy but in a creepily photorealistic way, just as the book jackets show real girls polished to an unreal gloss. It's not surprising that Cecily von Ziegesar matter-of-factly told an interviewer that she sees her books as ''aspirational'' (which she seemed to think was a good thing). 
 The great reads of adolescence have classically been critiques of the corrupt or banal adult world. It's sad if the point of reading for many girls now is no longer to take the adult world apart but to squeeze into it all the more compliantly. Sex and shopping take their places on a barren stage, as though, even for teenagers, these are the only dramas left.

ONLINE: MY FAVORITE BOOK
 Teenagers, parents and other interested readers are invited to e-mail questions and comments to Naomi Wolf and to post their own reviews of favorite books at nytimes.com/books.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Roger Moenks and Laurent Alfierri
cover design by Jennifer Blanc)(cover photo by Carolyn Veith Krienke
 cover design by Amy Greenspan)(cover design by Marci Senders)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); PETITIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Children and Youth; Sex

PERSON: Naomi Wolf; Lisi Harrison; Cecily Von Ziegesar; Zoey Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



244 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Meaning of Life, Along With a 7% Return

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of the funniest movies I have ever seen is ''Monty Python's The Meaning of Life.'' In one scene, a conglomerate's senior executives are meeting and one of them is invited to report on the sixth item on the agenda: the meaning of life. 
 The eager executive responds: ''Yeah, I've had a team working on this over the past few weeks, and what we've come up with can be reduced to two fundamental concepts. One: People aren't wearing enough hats. Two: Matter is energy. In the universe there are many energy fields which we cannot normally perceive. Some energies have a spiritual source which act upon a person's soul. However, this 'soul' does not exist ab initio as orthodox Christianity teaches; it has to be brought into existence by a process of guided self-observation. However, this is rarely achieved owing to man's unique ability to be distracted from spiritual matters by everyday trivia.''
The first comment from his colleagues: ''What was that about hats again?'' 
 This comes to mind because, a few days ago, I was on the set of a television production at an outdoor location near Placerville, Calif., between Sacramento and Lake Tahoe. We were in a long-disused gas station that had been run into ruin. I played a sort of ghostly, maybe not-quite-real gas station owner, and with a very talented sidekick named Bill I gave ethics advice to an automaker's employees as they wandered in.
 So far, so good. The problem was that a cold rain was falling, and the roof did not serve to keep it out. Then it started snowing. A high wind was blowing, and we were painfully cold and standing in slush. There was mud everywhere. Back at my motel, the hot water did not work for a long time.
 Anyway, to keep my mind occupied with thoughts other than self-pity -- a special curse in my life -- I tried to think of how to build an income portfolio that yielded close to 7 percent a year with modest leverage.
 I thought of that because, someday far in the future, I want to live on my savings, and a yield of 7 percent would be helpful, to put it mildly. To arrive at that portfolio, I did what I always do. I called my co-author and dear friend, Phil DeMuth, and asked him to do it.
 A few days later, I was on a flight from Los Angeles to Miami. My fellow passengers were driving me insane. (A plane is a flying asylum these days.) The man next to me was ripping pages from a magazine, making a horrible sound -- why do people do that? The man in front of me had his seat back as far as it would go, so that his dyed orange hair was in my lap. His wife was yakking across the aisle with an accent hideous enough to make Dracula run for cover. 
 I felt as if I were coming down with pneumonia from my stay in the slush. I had to write some notes on a speech I was to give later. Wow, I thought, am I suffering. Wow, I thought, no one appreciates me. Here I am hard at work on a flying madhouse. My wife is at an Oscar party. Our son is at the new apartment I have just rented for him with the proceeds of my hard work -- and, of course, like all American children, he never thanks Mom and Pop for anything. Then I arrived in Miami and my driver did not know his way around. We got stuck in traffic on Interstate 95. Terrible. I felt beaten down. And then, and then. 
 I got to my hotel, the Breakers, and everything was great. The lobby was beautiful. The room was fabulous. The ocean breeze was heavenly. My bed was firm and warm. I turned on the Oscars and, though they make me want to vomit, I was still happy -- and suddenly, I realized that I had been looking at it all wrong.
 I was working in Placerville in mud and slush. I was not being worked to death, or lined up in mud and slush and shot like three of my grandfather's cousins were by the Nazis. I was not in the Hurtgen Forest dodging tree bursts from German 88's. I was on a set, maybe getting a little cold.
 The hotel? Well, even though it lacked instant hot water, I had a warm bed and a view of the freeway. And the rude people on the plane? Well, we were on a plane -- not in a cattle car, not in steerage. And my wife? Let's remember that she puts up with me: Enough said. And my ungrateful son? Hey, he's an American child, that's all, and by definition has no clue of how good he has it. And how different is he from me?
 I love the Breakers; there is no better hotel. But it occurs to me that all of America is like the Breakers compared with what history has dished up, especially to us Jews. I wish I could get that spirit into my son. 
 When I was in college, in my fabulous fraternity, Alpha Delta Phi, we had an Episcopalian prayer before each meal, and it sums up what I think about what makes you really rich: For the gifts we are about to receive, please Lord, make us truly grateful. Because, to be grateful, as Phil DeMuth says, is to get rich not just quickly, but instantly. For the gift that is my work life in America, dear Lord, please make me truly grateful.
 Oh, and the news about the hats? Here is Phil's portfolio. We don't vouch for the soundness of these securities. And their yield may fall as events unfold and problems occur, so there are risks. Some, as you can see, are European, so there is currency risk, too. But for now, they have a heck of a yield -- though not as high as the yield of gratitude, which carries no risks.
 Call it the Stein-DeMuth 7 Percent Solution (well, really, the DeMuth 7 Percent Solution). It's sorted by sector, and includes percentage yields for each stock.

REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS -- Lexington Corporate Properties Trust, 7.1 percent; and Healthcare Realty Trust, 7.1.

MASTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS -- Teppco Partners, 7.6; and MarkWest Energy Partners, 7.3.

UTILITIES -- Peoples Energy, 5.9; Enel of Italy, 8.0; UIL Holdings, 6.0; Telecom New Zealand, 11.3; United Utilities of Britain, 6.8.

ROYALTY TRUSTS -- Great Northern Iron Ore Properties, 9.4; and Permian Basin, 10.3.

OTHER -- UST, the tobacco company, 5.5; ConAgra Foods, 5.3; the Deluxe Corporation, the printer of checks and business forms, 6.6; and Allied Capital, the business development firm, 7.7.
 I do not claim that these yield numbers are immutable, but for now you can have a rockin' good time with them. They might actually make up an average yield above 7 percent. Put the excess into hats.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); GAS STATIONS (70%); RELIGION (69%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); BONDS (65%); WEATHER (63%); WRITERS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Phil Demuth; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



245 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Invisible Danger? Parents Look Inside the Lunchbox

BYLINE: By JULIE BICK

 BODY:
REACHING into their nylon lunch bags at school, Casey and Cameron Lilley pull sandwiches made of organic ingredients out of wax paper wrappers, and sip water from coated aluminum containers from Switzerland. Their mother, Shawn Lilley, had carefully chosen the packaging.
 At a recent gathering of kindergarten mothers in Seattle, Ms. Lilley told the women that chemicals could leach from plastic bags and other plastic containers into food. Since then, a few more kindergartners have shown up with sandwiches in wax paper.
''Shawn researches these kinds of things, and it's not that much more expensive, so we switched,'' said Linda Walker, who packs lunch daily for her three children.
 Whether the information on chemical hazards comes from magazines, the Web or the playground, many parents are changing their buying habits to try to protect children from what they see as dangers. Information on what exactly is toxic, however, is scant and sometimes conflicting. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency has approved 80,000 chemicals for consumer use, said Dr. Leonardo Trasande, assistant director at the Center for Children's Health and the Environment at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. Of those, 2,800 are produced in volumes of more than a million pounds a year, but fewer than half the high-volume ones have been studied for toxicity, he said.
 Until more information is available about those chemicals, Dr. Trasande recommended that parents focus on common and significant risks, like lead, pesticides and tobacco smoke, in their children's environment.
 Some plastics contain additives like bisphenol A (BPA) and phthalates. These have been found to be harmful in animal studies, said Dr. Wade V. Welshons of the University of Missouri in Columbia. And the Centers for Disease Control has detected them in the urine of a majority of the thousands of people it has tested in the United States.
 BPA is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in polycarbonate packaging for all types of food ''based on numerous safety tests,'' according to the Society of the Plastics Industry, a trade group. But Dr. Welshons said a re-evaluation is needed, focused on the last five years of research. Many plastic bags and wraps are made with 100 percent polyethylene, so Dr. Trasande and others call them safer.
 Ms. Lilley began buying organic foods nine years ago, when she became pregnant with her first child. Since then, the newsletter from the Puget Sound Community Co-op, where she shops, combined with Web research, has persuaded her to buy wax paper bags, dye-free detergent and other cleaners that emphasize natural ingredients. ''There's so much out there that I can't protect them from,'' she said of her children. ''At least their home and the food they eat should be as safe as I can make it.'' 
 Scientists can detect toxic chemicals in remarkably small concentrations in the environment and in foods, and even in umbilical cord blood. But studies showing that certain chemicals in high concentrations are damaging to lab animals may not indicate similar health effects from the much smaller doses to which humans are exposed, said Dr. David Eaton, director of the University of Washington's Center for Ecogenetics and Environmental Health. ''Of course we should try to keep toxins out of our air, food and water,'' he said, ''but my motto is 'prudence without paranoia.' ''
 The difficulty for consumers is knowing which, if any, changes to make in what they buy. And the decisions don't stop at organic foods. 
 Expert opinions vary widely, and the gray area is vast. Dr. Charles M. Yarborough, a member of the Children's Health Protection Advisory Committee of the E.P.A., said there were almost no easy answers for parents. ''It's hard to say something is dangerous or not dangerous,'' he said. ''There are questions of exposure levels, the age of the child, the toxicity of the chemical and other factors.'' He added, ''After all, water is toxic if you drink too much too fast.''
 Dr. Trasande says children are especially vulnerable to toxins because their body systems are developing. ''Once they go off track, you can't hit the rewind button,'' he said. Because of their lower body weight and proximity to the ground, where residue may linger, children feel the effects of household chemicals more than adults, he said.
 Jeffrey Hollander, president of Seventh Generation in Burlington, Vt., says he has witnessed a growing interest in his company's nontoxic, biodegradable household products, like laundry detergent. He attributes this in part to new parents who suddenly find familiar cleaners less attractive.
 ''Their attitude is, 'Why take the risk that a product may be harmful if we don't have to?' '' he said. Sales at Seventh Generation have grown 30 to 40 percent a year for five years, to hit annual sales of $50 million, he said, led by products like unbleached diapers.
 Parents' buying patterns can lead to industry changes. While phthalates can be used in some children's toys in the United States, parental pressure led the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 1998 to ask manufacturers to take them out of teething rings and pacifiers, according to Dr. Welshons. ''The science was there for some time before, but until parents exerted pressure, such as by not buying the toys, they didn't change the formulation,'' he said.
 The same grapevine that encourages parents to stop buying some products can help sales of others. Since August, the Center for Environmental Health, a nonprofit group in Oakland, Calif., has sued 24 lunchbox makers and retailers, after their vinyl lunchboxes were found by two independent labs to contain lead. E-mail messages flew from parent to parent. 
 Cool Tote, a company in Sparks, Nev., that makes lead-free nylon and cloth lunchboxes, found an immediate increase in sales on its Web site. ''We started getting a lot more interesting to people,'' said Bruce Clancy, the chief executive. Another site, Reusablebags.com also started to offer the product line and now sells about 100 Cool Tote lunch bags a week.
 In response to public concerns, the Consumer Product Safety Commission tested 60 vinyl lunchboxes made by a variety of manufacturers, including some named in the suits, and found that ''in most cases, children would have to rub their lunchbox and then lick their hands more than 600 times every day, for about 15-30 days,'' to create a health hazard.
 Not everyone agrees with the government's conclusions. The safety commission ''has always lagged behind the most current science where lead toxicity is concerned,'' said Dr. Herbert L. Needleman, professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and a co-author of ''Raising Healthy Children in a Toxic World.'' ''Most scientists who are actively working in the area now agree that there is no safe lead exposure level for children.'' 
 A spokesman for the safety commission, Scott Wolfson, said, ''We recognize there are differences in the opinions, but we all desire the same thing -- that no child have lead poisoning.'' He added, ''There are federally agreed-upon levels of accessible lead beyond which children should not be exposed.''
 IT may take a long while for parents to get much scientific information on what is toxic to their children. In 2000, Congress authorized the National Children's Study, to follow 100,000 children from the womb to age 21. The goal was to understand how natural and synthetic environmental factors affect child development. The study would also examine why conditions like asthma, developmental disabilities, obesity and childhood cancer were on the rise. 
 Last September, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development announced seven sites where the study would start, including Queens in New York. Recently, though, the Bush administration proposed to halt the study as part of budget cuts. The cost for a national introduction in 2007 was projected to be $69 million.
 A cost-benefit analysis was performed as part of the study's preparation, said Dr. Peter Scheidt, director of the study. ''The childhood illnesses and conditions that this study addresses are so burdensome and costly to the nation,'' he said, ''that any measurable impact the study has, even on one of the major conditions for one year, would pay for the cost of the study.''
 Parents, meanwhile, will have to make up their own minds. ''It's not cheaper; it's not more convenient,'' Ms. Lilley said, ''but if there's even a chance it reduces our kids' health risks, we buy it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 12 about some parents' efforts to buy healthful products for their children misidentified a Seattle food co-op whose newsletter helped one parent in her shopping decisions. It is PCC Natural Markets, not the Puget Sound Community Co-op.
An article on March 12 about some parents' efforts to buy healthful products for their children misidentified a Seattle food co-op whose newsletter helped one parent in her shopping decisions. It is PCC Natural Markets, not the Puget Sound Community Co-op.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Casey Lilley, far right, and Sara Walker, second from right, eat food that was wrapped in wax paper because their mothers think it is safer. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POLYMERS (89%); PLASTICS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (89%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (89%); BISPHENOL A (89%); NYLON (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PLASTICIZERS (77%); PARENTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (72%); PESTICIDES (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); US FDA APPROVALS (69%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Chemicals; Consumer Protection; Chemicals; Tests and Testing; Consumer Behavior; Children and Youth; Sales; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Chemicals; Environment; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%) Seventh Generation (Co); Cool Tote (Co); Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Julie Bick; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



246 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: A Way to Try a Job on for Size Before Making a Commitment

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
For Caroline Holley, taking a job after meeting the boss once makes about as much sense as agreeing to an arranged marriage.
 ''It seems kind of insane, but that's the way most decisions are made,'' said Ms. Holley, a Brooklyn resident in her 30's who worked as a temp before accepting a job as education and training administrator at the American National Standards Institute in Manhattan last year.
''Temp to perm'' or ''temp to hire'' are industry terms for employees like Ms. Holley who work on a temporary status before becoming permanent employees. 
 ''It's a much better chance to get to know each other,'' Ms. Holley said, noting that her temporary work status offered her the opportunity to size up the office culture before making a commitment to work there. 
 It might be called workplace dating, and it is on the increase. ''It's snowballing,'' said Marty Gargle, an owner of the Employment Line, a New York City staffing service that helped Ms. Holley find her job.
 The service reports that close to 80 percent of all new hires the agency placed last year were initially placed in temp jobs; five years ago it was less than 30 percent. Most placements are clerical and administrative workers, Ms. Gargle said, but increasingly they include midlevel managers, lawyers and even executives.
 The depth of the trend, at least officially, is not known. ''It is not something that is tracked,'' said Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the New York State Department of Labor in Manhattan. Anne Accini, Ms. Gargle's co-owner at the Employment Line, said that temp-to-perm was a great way ''to get to know if the boss is a pussycat or tiger.'' It is particularly good, she said, for people with poor or rusty interview skills -- ''excellent workers but they just can't interview to save their lives.''
 Such hiring was rare in the 80's, Ms. Accini said, but grew steadily during the hiring boom of the dot-com era in the 90's. Then the bubble burst.
 Since then, said Richard Wahlquist, president and chief executive of the American Staffing Association, based in Alexandria, Va., ''Companies have learned to hire much more strategically.'' 
 Temp-to perm is a prudent way to do that. With the economy on the rebound, the demand for good workers is increasing as well and companies are having a hard time getting qualified applicants, Mr. Wahlquist said.
 All this has been good for temporary workers, who are often hired to fill immediate needs and end up as permanent employees even though they did not initially seem like ideal candidates. Meanwhile, they can explore career options, make money while looking for the perfect job and exercise more control over their work lives. Unlike quitting or being fired, leaving a temp-to-perm job leaves no black mark.
 ''It's a good opportunity to go in and possibly find a job you like,'' said Matt Deane, who was fresh out of Bates College when he took a temp-to-perm job at the American National Standards Institute. ''And it's an easy out if it is something you'd never do in a million years.'' 
 Mr. Deane, who is now a director, stayed for almost 10 years after his initial three-month commitment. 
 Temp-to-perm placements include jobs that evolve into staff positions and those like Mr. Deane's, which are expected to become permanent from the start. ''It was such a good match from the beginning, that within a few weeks I knew it was going to be a good fit,'' Mr. Deane said.
 Jana Zabinski, one of his colleagues at the institute, who also started there as a temporary, was eager to get into public relations after working in the fashion industry. Although she had no experience in the field, she felt confident she could do the work. ''How do you prove that if it is not written on your resume?'' she asked. James Essey, president of the TemPositions Group of Companies, which has offices in the New York City area and California, says that temp-to-perm workers have ''a total leg up, kind of like a summer intern.''
 Charles Griemsman, an editorial assistant at Harlequin, a book publishing house, worked in corporate communications after college but wanted to get in the door of a new industry. Even with a degree in English and American literature from Princeton University, he said, it was not easy. ''The first day I was assigned to write blurbs for six books,'' he said. ''It was a practical route to where I need to be.''
 But the ''try before you buy'' concept benefits employers as well.
 ''It's less expensive than the traditional route'' of paying outright to a staffing agency for a hire, Mr. Essey said, because there is generally no fee to pay when a temp-to-perm employee is hired permanently. And employers do not incur costs of benefits like health insurance, unemployment liability or vacation pay during the temporary work period. The staffing service pays for whatever benefits temp workers get. 
 Susan Krause Liebman, director of human resources at Barnard College in Manhattan, called temp-to-hire ''a very positive way to do it all around; it makes financial as well as ethical sense.'' 
 Though the least expensive method of hiring is for businesses to bypass agencies and run ads themselves, working with an agency for a temp-to-perm worker is ''less of a hassle,'' she said. ''We don't get deluged with resumes, interviews and testing. And we end up with 2 strong candidates rather than 20 that have to be screened.'' 
 Gary M. Sobo, a partner of Sobo & Sobo, a law office in Middletown, N.Y., said his firm also preferred to hire temp-to-perm workers, often waiting six months before making definite job offers. That period, he says, offers the ''opportunity to explore all those things you couldn't tell during the interview.'' 
 Diana Kornish, owner of Here's Help Staffing Services in Middletown, who is also president of the New York Staffing Association, says temp-to-perm work can produce some unexpected matches. 
 Consider Stacey A. Schick, who moved back to Orange County, N.Y., from the West Coast nine years ago, when she was seven months pregnant with her first child. Ms. Schick, a retailing manager, said: ''I was running four stores. I did it well and wielded a lot of power.''
 When she was unable to land a job in retailing, Ms. Schick took a two-week data-entry job at the Orange County Association of Realtors. 
 ''I didn't know how to turn on a computer'' but ''they needed bodies,'' said Ms. Schick, who is now the education coordinator at the association and the mother of two. 
 ''Honestly, I would never have considered it'' if a suitable job had come her way in her original field, she said. ''But it has afforded me the opportunity to have a family and be able to have time with them.'' 
 Retailing often required 70-hour weeks, she said. ''But I ended up doing something I really enjoy. It can't get any better than that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Deane, Caroline Holley and Jana Zabinski all started as temporary workers at the American National Standards Institute and were later hired full time. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%) Labor; Temporary Employment

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (83%)

PERSON: Tanya Mohn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



247 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Mortgaging New York's Future

BYLINE: By David M. Muchnick. 
David M. Muchnick is a consultant on affordable housing and community economic development.

 BODY:
CONFRONTED by the state's meteoric housing boom and Washington's constant narrowing of its federal responsibilities, New York's next governor must face up to downstate's twin challenges of a worsening shortage of affordable housing and a corrosive exodus of young adults.
 Because housing prices and rents have increased more than wages and incomes for over a decade, more than two million New York homeowners and tenants were forced to pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing in 2003. Among them were 180,000 in Suffolk, 147,000 in Nassau, 98,000 in Westchester, 37,000 in Orange, 32,000 in Rockland, 30,000 in Dutchess, and 893,000 in the four boroughs outside Manhattan. 
 And they are among the lucky ones: they actually have a place of their own.
They are in better shape than some 330,000 young adults downstate who, because of the shortage of affordable rental apartments, can't leave their parents' homes and form their own households in their old neighborhoods at a rate comparable to young adults elsewhere in the state. Presumably, tens of thousands of these 20- to 34-year-olds will be forced to move great distances to get a place of their own, as did some 235,000 during the last decade.
 Losing young adults mocks the investments in education made by the state and local governments. It deprives local businesses of sorely needed employees. It extends families by geography, not just generation, producing more travel, more gas guzzling and more pollution. It's a drain the next governor should, and can, begin to stop. Here's how.
 First, the new governor should amend the state's real estate transfer tax law so that it dedicates equal portions of these tax revenues -- expected to be $930 million in the 2006 fiscal year, $800 million in 2007, and more than $750 million annually in the next two fiscal years -- to affordable housing development and to environmental purposes. The current law and recently proposed amendments serve only environmental objectives.
 Such an amendment would provide $251 million in additional capital funds for affordable housing this year based on the financing levels proposed in the 2007 fiscal year executive budget ($147 million for the Environmental Improvement Fund plus $104 million in anticipated debt service payments from the Clean Water Clean Air Debt Service fund). This alone is more than double the $104 million in capital funds proposed for affordable housing in the 2007 fiscal year's executive budget, an amount that has remained virtually the same in every executive budget since 2001-02 despite the worsening housing crisis and the 200 percent increase in annual real estate transfer tax revenues.
 By designating money for affordable housing capital funds, the amendment would establish a true housing trust fund, not one dependent on an annual discretionary appropriation. Real estate transfer tax revenues are generated by the real estate and housing industries. It is only fair to invest part of the state's windfall in those revenues in affordable housing. 
 By giving parity to environmental and affordable housing objectives, the amendment would lay the financial keystone of a balanced, smart-growth policy. Such a policy recognizes that the goals of affordable housing and environmental conservation should, and can, be complementary. 
 Second, the new administration should empower the state's Housing Finance Agency and Mortgage Agency to be more aggressive and creative in developing and preserving affordable housing. Both agencies have laudable records, immense portfolios with thousands of housing units, billions in assets, millions in reserves and AA credit ratings. Since the 2003 fiscal year, they have generated $463 million in surplus reserves and excess earnings that were transferred to the state's general fund. Just last week, members of the Legislature reached a key agreement on the state's new 2007 budget by tapping $125 million in excess reserves from one of these agencies. 
 The governor should put a stop to this practice of withdrawing the excess earnings and reserves from these agencies to balance the state's budget. These funds -- upwards of $100 million annually -- should be used by the agencies to finance and preserve affordable housing.
 Third, the new governor should propose legislation to establish a new program to build multifamily (rental, co-op and condominium) housing that would deal with the needs of hundreds of thousands of middle-income working families who are ''too rich'' for low-income developments, yet ''too poor'' to buy a new state-subsidized ''affordable'' home. 
 This program is likely to be especially helpful to downstate's young adults: suburbs with a larger proportion of rental apartments in multifamily buildings are likely to lose a lower percentage of their young adults and have a lower percentage of young adults living with parents or older adults. 
 Finally, the governor should seek legislation with inclusionary incentives and requirements that encourage communities to find sites for affordable development. 
 New York has the resources and creativity to combat the downstate region's loss of young adults while also meeting the housing needs of the residents with low and moderate incomes. What it will take is executive leadership pledged and committed to that goal. Every candidate for governor (and for any legislative office for that matter) should be asked to take that pledge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%) Housing; Taxation; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Law and Legislation; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing Finance Agency (NYS)

PERSON: David M Muchnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



248 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Mortgaging New York's Future

BYLINE: By David M. Muchnick. 
David M. Muchnick is a consultant on affordable housing and community economic development.

 BODY:
CONFRONTED by the state's meteoric housing boom and Washington's constant narrowing of its federal responsibilities, New York's next governor must face up to downstate's twin challenges of a worsening shortage of affordable housing and a corrosive exodus of young adults.
 Because housing prices and rents have increased more than wages and incomes for over a decade, more than two million New York homeowners and tenants were forced to pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing in 2003. Among them were 180,000 in Suffolk, 147,000 in Nassau, 98,000 in Westchester, 37,000 in Orange, 32,000 in Rockland, 30,000 in Dutchess, and 893,000 in the four boroughs outside Manhattan. 
And they are among the lucky ones: they actually have a place of their own.
 They are in better shape than some 330,000 young adults downstate who, because of the shortage of affordable rental apartments, can't leave their parents' homes and form their own households in their old neighborhoods at a rate comparable to young adults elsewhere in the state. Presumably, tens of thousands of these 20- to 34-year-olds will be forced to move great distances to get a place of their own, as did some 235,000 during the last decade.
 Losing young adults mocks the investments in education made by the state and local governments. It deprives local businesses of sorely needed employees. It extends families by geography, not just generation, producing more travel, more gas guzzling, and more pollution. It's a drain the next governor should, and can, begin to stop. Here's how.
 First, the new governor should amend the state's real estate transfer tax law so that it dedicates equal portions of these tax revenues -- expected to be $930 million in the 2006 fiscal year, $800 million in 2007, and more than $750 million annually in the next two fiscal years -- to affordable housing development and to environmental purposes. The current law and recently proposed amendments serve only environmental objectives.
 Such an amendment would provide $251 million in additional capital funds for affordable housing this year based on the financing levels proposed in the 2007 fiscal year executive budget ($147 million for the Environmental Improvement Fund plus $104 million in anticipated debt service payments from the Clean Water Clean Air Debt Service fund). This alone is more than double the $104 million in capital funds proposed for affordable housing in the 2007 fiscal year's executive budget, an amount that has remained virtually the same in every executive budget since 2001-02 despite the worsening housing crisis and the 200 percent increase in annual real estate transfer tax revenues.
 By designating money for affordable housing capital funds, the amendment would establish a true housing trust fund, not one dependent on an annual discretionary appropriation. Real estate transfer tax revenues are generated by the real estate and housing industries. It is only fair to invest part of the state's windfall in those revenues in affordable housing. 
 By giving parity to environmental and affordable housing objectives, the amendment would lay the financial keystone of a balanced, smart-growth policy. Such a policy recognizes that the goals of affordable housing and environmental conservation should, and can, be complementary. 
 Second, the new administration should empower the state's Housing Finance Agency and Mortgage Agency to be more aggressive and creative in developing and preserving affordable housing. Both agencies have laudable records, immense portfolios with thousands of housing units, billions in assets, millions in reserves, and AA credit ratings. Since the 2003 fiscal year, they have generated $463 million in surplus reserves and excess earnings that were transferred to the state's general fund. Just last week, members of the Legislature reached a key agreement on the state's new 2007 budget by tapping $125 million in excess reserves from one of these agencies. 
 The governor should put a stop to this practice of withdrawing the excess earnings and reserves from these agencies to balance the state's budget. These funds -- upwards of $100 million annually -- should be used by the agencies to finance and preserve affordable housing.
 Third, the new governor should propose legislation to establish a new program to build multifamily (rental, co-op and condominium) housing that would deal with the needs of hundreds of thousands of middle-income working families who are ''too rich'' for low-income developments, yet ''too poor'' to buy a new state-subsidized ''affordable'' home. 
 This program is likely to be especially helpful to downstate's young adults: suburbs with a larger proportion of rental apartments in multifamily buildings are likely to lose a lower percentage of their young adults and have a lower percentage of young adults living with parents or older adults. 
 Finally, the governor should seek legislation with inclusionary incentives and requirements that encourage communities to find sites for affordable development. 
 New York has the resources and creativity to combat the downstate region's loss of young adults while also meeting the housing needs of the residents with low- and moderate incomes. What it will take is executive leadership pledged and committed to that goal. Every candidate for governor (and for any legislative office for that matter) should be asked to take that pledge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%) Housing; Taxation; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Law and Legislation; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing Finance Agency (NYS)

PERSON: David M Muchnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



249 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD -- Wanted: Little Emperors; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: To Japanese Nationalists, Only the Y Chromosome Counts

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
IT was one of the biggest rallies in support of Japan's imperial system since the end of World War II: Some 10,300 men and women gathered at the Budokan martial arts arena to protest a proposal that would let women become empresses and pass along title to the Chrysanthemum Throne. At the end, the throng stood and raised their arms in unison while shouting, ''Long live the emperor!''
 What could possibly stir so much passion about monarchy in the 21st century? 
The question of admitting women to the line of imperial succession, often presented outside Japan as little more than a curious anachronism, has been growing in importance for the last six months. The issue has been promoted by Japan's nationalist movement, whose influence has risen along with the controversy.
 The nationalists, who offer the public a version of Japan's past that is cleansed of remorse for World War II, are now putting the issue of imperial succession -- and the imperial system itself -- at the heart of their appeals. 
 ''Search all over the world, but you won't find any other family besides the Japanese imperial family that has maintained an unbroken male line for 125 generations,'' Takeo Hiranuma, a former minister of economy, trade and industry, said at the rally, which was organized by Nippon Kaigi, one of Japan's largest nationalist groups. ''In other words, it is the precious, precious treasure of the Japanese race, as well as a world treasure.''
 The object of the crowd's ire was a plan by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to revise the Imperial Household Law to allow a female line to hold the throne. Never mind that Mr. Koizumi has shelved the plan, after a rebellion by lawmakers in his center-right party and after an unexpected announcement last month by Emperor Akihito's second son and his wife that she was pregnant.
 If the baby, due in September, is a boy, the problem will be moot for another generation, even if the emperor's first son, Crown Prince Naruhito, and his wife, Crown Princess Masako, never have their own son. The birth of a girl, however, would bring Japan back to square one. So until September, at least, there are likely to be more rallies as conservatives try to keep the issue alive. 
 The opposition to a female line is part of a larger nationalist movement that seeks a tougher stance against China and North Korea, presses aggressively for a revisionist history of Japan's wartime past, and pushes the myth of Japanese racial exceptionalism. Indeed, many at the rally are the same politicians, scholars and journalists who contend that the Nanking Massacre was vastly exaggerated, that Japan invaded continental Asia to liberate it and that Japan was tricked into war by the United States. 
 Historians trace the start of Japan's imperial system to the fourth or fifth century, though Japanese myth says the first emperor, Jimmu, a descendant of the sun goddess Amaterasu, began his reign 2,665 years ago. Political heavyweights like Mr. Hiranuma are now stating the myth as fact. In addition, the foreign minister, Taro Aso, has said that because Japanese soldiers died for the emperor, the emperor should visit the Yasukuni Shrine, the memorial to Japan's war dead and 14 Class A war criminals. 
 What these comments have in common is the belief that the imperial system stands at the core of Japan, defines Japan -- is, in fact, Japan. To conservatives in a country that has been transformed by outside forces in everything from its laws to its social mores, the imperial system is the one institution that has remained purely Japanese. 
 In the imperial system, only a male relative who was a direct descendant of the imperial line could become emperor -- a rule designed to keep the male bloodline pure. Eight women were allowed to reign as empresses, but only because age or marital circumstances had made them unable to bear children, which eliminated the possibility that a man outside the imperial line would father a successor, said Takeshi Hara, a professor specializing in the monarchy at Meiji Gakuin University here. An empress ''had to have a pure body,'' he said.
 Until the 20th century, concubines ensured that a male heir was born, but that practice died with the advent of modern social mores in Japan.
 Nobody, perhaps, has symbolized such changes more than Crown Princess Masako, the Harvard-educated, multilingual former diplomat who married the crown prince in 1993. Back then, she represented the new Japanese woman.
 Once in the palace, however, she found that only one thing was expected of her: to produce a male heir. She gave birth to a girl in 2001, and sank into a long depression. The crown prince complained in 2004 that there had been a ''move to deny Masako's career and personality.''
 Career? Personality? This outraged conservatives who thought any Japanese woman should devote herself to bearing and raising children. Princess Masako became the bete noire of the right wing and, especially in the last six months, the target of ceaseless attacks in the popular press.
 Conservatives also oppose reforms that would promote gender equality -- or what the Japanese call a ''gender free'' society. The result is that, compared to women in other advanced countries, Japanese women have little economic or political power.
 They do, however, have power over childbearing. And Japan's plummeting birthrate suggests that many women are deciding not to have children, boy or girl.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kingmakers -- At a Tokyo arena, thousands of conservatives protested against a government proposal to allow women into the imperial line of succession. (Photo by Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); FAMILY (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); POLITICS (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); CONSERVATISM (60%) Women; Demonstrations and Riots; Royal Family

ORGANIZATION: Nippon Kaigi

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan; Tokyo (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



250 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Germany and America: Soul-Searching Over the Realpolitik of the Iraqi War

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 11 

 BODY:
For a brief moment a few days ago the attention of this country turned to one of those odd -- and in this case entirely grisly -- events that reflect the state of the collective German consciousness.
 Early in the week, a court in Frankfurt ruled that a film based on an incident of cannibalism in Germany in 2001 should be banned. The reason, the court said, was that the film would have ''invaded the personal privacy'' of the man, Armin Miewes, who killed and ate a man who knowingly volunteered for that fate.
 The court's decision to put a confessed cannibal's privacy above the public's right to view a movie may have been right or wrong. What it certainly reflected in this country, whose Nazi past is always quietly present, is one of Germany's most conspicuous features: an intense and abiding desire for the moral high ground, to do the right thing. 
 That desire also seems to be behind the strange political scandal unfolding here over the past few weeks, prompted by revelations that Germany's government, which vociferously opposed the American-led invasion of Iraq, fed the United States a steady stream of intelligence as the war was being fought.
 A full-scale parliamentary investigation is being demanded by opposition parties who have just enough votes to push an inquiry through Parliament over the strenuous objections of the administration.
 Of the elements powering the scandal, not least, it would seem, is the political interest of the opposition parties. But the intensity with which the matter is being felt here seems inseparable from this country's preoccupation with moral politics.
 Germany is a place where, a couple of years ago, a big city police chief was cashiered because he threatened to torture the kidnapper of a 9-year-old boy if he did not reveal where the boy was being held.
 Clearly, as was generally recognized, the police chief was acting in the interests of the boy, who, it turned out, had already been killed. Still, the policeman lost his job, not for torturing the kidnapper, but for threatening to.
 A similarly absolutist morality seems to be involved in the political scandal. 
 But a strong argument is being made by some here that what the former leftist coalition did -- oppose the Iraqi invasion publicly but offer help privately to the United States once it began -- was not, after all, the act of unadulterated hypocrisy that many Germans have been proclaiming it.
 Is it really so shocking, that argument goes, that a German government would have quietly done what it could to help its American ally, while at the same time holding together the Atlantic alliance and even providing some militarily useful information that might have saved some American lives? Surely, even if the government did the wrong thing, there were some good reasons for what it did.
 But the intensity of feeling produced by the affair seems to reflect that the German public so identifies the Iraqi war as a moral abomination that these counterarguments seem to be making little headway.
 ''The Germans have a worldview, and right now a main part of the worldview is that the Bush administration is evil and that Germany is a voice for reason and morality,'' said Gary Smith, director of the American Academy in Berlin and an observer of the German scene for 20 years. 
 ''The irony is that Germans think of themselves as practitioners of realpolitik,'' Mr. Smith said, focusing on practical self-interest rather than morality. ''And yet their attitude in this case is divorced from reality. It's realpolitik without reality.''
 The worldview combines with a historic element in the picture perhaps not well appreciated outside of Germany, and that is the importance, especially on the left of the political spectrum, of what was widely seen here as the courageous ''no'' that the previous government gave to Mr. Bush and the invasion of Iraq.
 A degree of pacifism is deeply engrained in this country, whose collective horror of war is connected with the lacerating memories both of German aggression and of German suffering in World War II. 
 But for the Social Democrats to have said no to war even while cooperating with it, comes to many Germans as an especially savage cut. It deprives them of one of the cornerstones of their political identity, and offers nothing to replace it.
 ''The one thing that always distinguished the Social Democratic Party under all of its leaders, from Willy Brandt to Schroder was that it was the peace party,'' said Wolfgang Nowak, director of the Deutsche Bank's International Forum and a former adviser to Gerhard Schroder. 
 As chancellors, Mr. Brandt won a Nobel Peace Prize for engineering West German rapprochement with East Europe, and Mr. Schroder campaigned against the Iraq war.
 ''It was holy writ that the Social Democrats would keep Germany out of war,'' Mr. Nowak said. ''That's why many people voted for Schroder in the election in 2005, even though they disagreed with his economic policy, because he was the one who had stood up to the Americans and said, 'No to war!' ''
 ''And now it seems that that very government gave the Americans everything they asked for and only refused things that the Americans didn't ask for,'' Mr. Nowak continued. ''It goes to the identity of the Social Democrats as the peace party, and this identity is now threatened.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); POLITICS (89%); SCANDALS (88%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (76%); ETHICS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); POLICE FORCES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Ethics; Intelligence Services

PERSON: Richard Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (98%); IRAQ (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%) Iraq; Germany; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



251 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2899 words

PERSON: Slobodan Milosevic

HEADLINE: Slobodan Milosevic, 64, Former Yugoslav Leader Accused of War Crimes, Dies 

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS and ALISON SMALE

DATELINE: PARIS, March 11 

 BODY:
Slobodan Milosevic, the Communist leader whose embrace of Serbian nationalism set off almost a decade of Balkan warfare, was found dead early Saturday in his cell at the United Nations detention center in The Hague, where he had been since 2001. He was 64. 
 Mr. Milosevic appeared to have died from natural causes, but tribunal officials said they would not be able to give a full account until an autopsy and toxicological report were completed. He was found lifeless on his bed in his cell, a court statement said. Mr. Milosevic's wife, and his partner of almost five decades, Mirjana Markovic, who, like his brother, Borislav, is living in Moscow, was informed of Mr. Milosevic's death, the court said.
 Death came as Mr. Milosevic's four-year trial for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide was drawing to a close. A verdict had been expected later this year. 
 He was the first former head of state to answer charges of such crimes and his was the longest war-crimes trial of modern times, delayed by Mr. Milosevic's frequent bouts of illness related to high blood pressure and a bad heart. 
 The complex indictment covered the events of three wars -- in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo -- and almost a decade of bloodshed and vengeance that killed more than 200,000 people and earned Mr. Milosevic the sobriquet ''Butcher of the Balkans.''
 On the advice of medical specialists, Mr. Milosevic went to court only three days a week. A lawyer by training, he insisted on conducting his own defense, often speaking for hours and summoning witnesses, including, just last month, former President Bill Clinton, who declined. Although Mr. Milosevic had become less blustery of late, his trademark defiance allowed him to act the role of martyr for the Serbian cause until the very end. 
 In December, Mr. Milosevic asked to travel to Moscow for medical treatment. The judges in The Hague refused to let him leave, arguing that adequate treatment was available in the Netherlands. 

Fueling Nationalist Grudges
 As he rose and then clung to power by resurrecting old nationalist grudges and inciting dreams of a Greater Serbia, Mr. Milosevic became the prime engineer of wars that pitted his fellow Serbs against the Slovenes, the Croats, the Bosnians, the Albanians of Kosovo and ultimately the combined forces of the entire NATO alliance. 
 By stirring a dormant but incendiary nationalism, he succeeded in rallying support for himself in the late 1980's, at a time when Communism in the rest of Eastern Europe was in its death throes.
 Exercising carefully calculated control of the media and operating ruthlessly behind the scenes, Mr. Milosevic established a cult of personality that struck fear into non-Serbs in Yugoslavia. 
 The Croats reacted by turning to their own nationalist, Franjo Tudjman, and so the stage was set for a deadly showdown between Yugoslavia's two largest ethnic groups, whose leaders manipulated centuries of historical differences -- the Serbs are Orthodox Christians, the Croats Roman Catholic; the Serbs endured Ottoman rule, the Croats the Hapsburgs -- into a brutal civil war that spread from Croatia into Bosnia-Herzegovina.
 There, the Muslim plurality led by Alija Izetbegovic proved powerless to enlist sufficient international support to prevent Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Tudjman from trying to dismember his state. Three and a half years of war ravaged Bosnia, leading to some 200,000 deaths and the eviction of millions from homes in a practice that became known globally as ethnic cleansing.
 The consequences of Mr. Milosevic's rule for Serbia were devastating. His final confrontation, with the Albanians of Kosovo, provoked a NATO bombing assault in the spring of 1999 that destroyed government buildings, factories and much infrastructure in a land already ruined by years of international sanctions intended to punish Mr. Milosevic for instigating earlier wars.
 As Stojan Cerovic of the independent Belgrade weekly Vreme once wrote, ''he turned Serbia into a colossal ruin.''
 By the fall of 2000, even Mr. Milosevic's appeals to nationalism and blatant manipulation of every election he contested were no longer enough to sustain him in power.
 Opposition forces who had mustered huge street protests, in 1991 and 1996, to try to oust Mr. Milosevic finally succeeded in October 2000.
 Security forces, who had helped Mr. Milosevic carve out large chunks of Croatia and Bosnia for Serbs and then served his cause in Kosovo, turned against him and joined opposition forces led by Vojislav Kostunica, who had beaten Mr. Milosevic in a presidential election that the Serbian leader refused to recognize.
 After his ouster, Mr. Milosevic was placed under house arrest in his villa in the elegant Belgrade district of Dedinje. Zoran Djindjic, then the prime minister, helped organize his transfer to The Hague in the summer of 2001.
 But even that did not end the violence and chaos in the Serbia that Mr. Milosevic did so much to ruin. Mr. Djindjic, a charismatic leader who was trying to propel his country toward Europe, was himself assassinated in 2003.
 While Mr. Milosevic instigated large-scale destruction, he was then needed to halt it. His career reached its zenith, perhaps, in late 1995, when he, along with Mr. Tudjman and Mr. Izetbegovic, traveled to Dayton, Ohio, to negotiate, under American auspices, the agreement that finally ended the Bosnian war.
 Slavoljub Djukic, a prominent Serbian journalist who wrote several books about Mr. Milosevic, neatly captured this paradox, noting that ''he is both the pyromaniac and the fireman.'' 
 ''He creates disorder,'' Mr. Djukic added, ''and manages to convince people only he can resolve it.''

Engineering Disorder
 Mr. Milosevic's emergence from an obscure career in the Yugoslav Communist Party dates to April 1987. For 25 years, Mr. Milosevic had ridden the coattails of a university friend, Ivan Stambolic, who had power and standing in the League of Communists founded by Tito to rule Yugoslavia. 
 In that spring of 1987, Mr. Stambolic, the new Communist party leader in Serbia, dispatched Mr. Milosevic to Kosovo, the region in southern Serbia treasured by all Serbs as the heart of their medieval empire but which had by then fallen under the control of ethnic Albanians who made up some 90 percent of Kosovo's population.
 Kosovo's Serbian minority claimed that the Albanians were continuing to drive Serbs from the province, where the legend of Serb sacrifice and victimhood was established in 1389, when the Ottoman Turks defeated Serbs on the battlefield at Kosovo Polje and began their 500 years of domination in the Balkans.
 Tito, who had squashed Yugoslavia's simmering and powerful nationalisms, had died seven years earlier. The Albanians of Kosovo had violently rebelled against Yugoslav rule just months later, in the spring of 1981, and were smarting under the fierce suppression of that revolt. 
 Serbian nationalism, meanwhile, was simmering through the ranks of intellectuals and others in Belgrade.
 Mr. Stambolic was nonetheless utterly unprepared for Mr. Milosevic to embrace this nationalism. 
 Instead of papering over the Albanian-Serbian dispute, Mr. Milosevic left a meeting of the mostly Albanian Communist leaders of Kosovo and wandered into a group of Serbian demonstrators in Kosovo Polje who were complaining that the police had used batons to push them back. Looking into the television cameras, Mr. Milosevic instantly vaulted into the Serbian consciousness by declaring, ''No one will dare to beat you again.''
 The crowd turned from hostility to cheering, ''Slobo, Slobo.''
 The apparently spontaneous incident was in fact carefully orchestrated by Mr. Milosevic. He had arrived in Kosovo the day before and talked with some of the people who planned to demonstrate. He took advantage of close ties to television managers to obtain coverage and to assure that his utterance would be captured and repeatedly rebroadcast throughout Serbia over the next few weeks, so that the refrain became a catchphrase.
 Galvanized by this exposure, Mr. Milosevic mounted a campaign that soon became a full-scale cult of personality.
 Pictures of the politician with his brushed back hedgehog haircut appeared everywhere. Mobs of ''Slobo'' chanters were shuttled from demonstration to demonstration. Newspaper editors and television commentators were primed to praise him. Jingles and songs were written, among them one that played on his first name, which incorporates the Serbian word for freedom. 
 ''Slobodan, they call you freedom/ You are loved by big and small/ So long as Slobo walks the land/people will not be enslaved.''
 Then, in the fall of 1987, Mr. Milosevic mounted an extraordinary assault on Mr. Stambolic, in a televised Communist party meeting that riveted Serbia. By the meeting's end, he had engineered Mr. Stambolic's ouster and had become the Serbs' leader, Communist by name and nationalist by choice.
 Years later, Mr. Stambolic ruefully looked back on his long friendship with Mr. Milosevic and his ambitious wife. ''When somebody looks at your back for 25 years, it is understandable that he gets the desire to put a knife in it at some point,'' he said. ''Many people warned me but I did not acknowledge it.''
 (In 2000, Mr. Stambolic disappeared while jogging in Belgrade. His remains were found in 2003, hilly region in northern Serbia. He had been shot twice. In July 2005, a special court in Belgrade found the chief of the secret service under Mr. Milosevic and a paramilitary commander guilty of planning and carrying out the assassination.)

A Lifelong Partner
 Throughout his career, Mr. Milosevic trusted perhaps only one person -- his wife, a onetime professor of Marxism, who served as his brain trust, helping him organize his political strategy and tactics.
 A more doctrinaire ideologue than her husband, Ms. Markovic was at times demonized as the ''Red Witch.'' Critics routinely deprecated her, mocking outlandish diaries published in fawning Belgrade publications, but she was a formidable presence in Serbian politics.
 The couple had met in high school in Pozarevac, a provincial town some 50 miles south of Belgrade, where Mr. Milosevic was born on Aug. 20, 1941. 
 While Slobodan and his older brother, Borislav, were in grade school, their father left the family for his native Montenegro. Mr. Milosevic's mother, who reared him, was also a teacher, and a dedicated Communist activist. 
 As a youth, Mr. Milosevic was a pudgy loner with few friends. He shunned sports and wrote poetry. In 1962 while he was at university, his father committed suicide by shooting himself. His mother hanged herself 11 years later. An uncle, his mother's brother, a former general, also took his own life.
 While Mr. Milosevic had effusive moments, and loved to engage the many Western diplomats and politicians with whom he negotiated during the war years in lengthy, alcohol-laced discussions of Balkan history, he was most often described as a loner, reclusive and moody. He and his wife had few close friends, relying on each other and their two children, Maria and Marko, who became infamous for driving cars at high speed and toting a gun. 
 In the late 1980's and early 1990's Mr. Milosevic intensified his nationalist rhetoric, stepped up his Kosovo campaign and broadened his assaults on fellow Communists from other parts of Yugoslavia. 
 In June 1989, on the 600th anniversary of the Ottomans' defeat of the Serbs, Mr. Milosevic returned once more to Kosovo Polje. Standing on the ancient battlefield, before a crowd of hundreds of thousands of Serbs, he signaled that there would be war. ''Six centuries later, we are again in battles and quarrels,'' he said. ''They are not armed battles, though such things should not be excluded yet.''
 Over the next two years, Mr. Milosevic secretly plotted war. The minority Serbs in Croatia, led by Milan Babic, a dentist from the town of Knin, served as his first instrument to whip up trouble.
 Croatia's Serbs felt bitterly betrayed by the election, in 1990, of Mr. Tudjman, an unswerving Croatian nationalist, as president of Croatia. Minority Serbs almost immediately started to lose influential jobs in the government apparatus. 
 Serb-Croat confrontations became ever more frequent during late 1990 and early 1991. The small, wealthy northern republic of Slovenia, meanwhile, decided that it would leave the quarrelsome Yugoslav federation by June 1991 if it proved impossible to negotiate a looser confederation that would allow the Slovenes and others much more autonomy from the dominant Serbs.
 Croatia, with tacit and later explicit support from Austria and Germany, followed.
 In June 1991, first Croatia and then Slovenia declared independence. Federal forces in Slovenia fought well-organized Slovenes before alarmed European diplomats helped negotiate a cease-fire, and the federal forces eventually withdrew.
 In Croatia, the battles between the minority Serbs -- backed by the Serb-dominated Yugoslav military and armed by Mr. Milosevic's security forces -- and Mr. Tudjman's army proved much more deadly. The Serbian minority was able to carve out enclaves covering about one third of Croatian territory before peace was negotiated by the veteran American diplomat Cyrus Vance at the very start of 1992.
 But the war in Croatia, it turned out, was merely the prelude to a much more horrific conflict. In Bosnia, Mr. Milosevic had been working behind the scenes for months, with his security forces ensuring that their Bosnian Serb allies were well armed and ready to take power throughout some 60 percent of Bosnia that they claimed historically belonged to the Serbs.
 That spring, bands of well-armed men from Serbia descended on towns in eastern Bosnia and systematically killed Muslims.
 In the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, meanwhile, Mr. Milosevic's ally, Radovan Karadzic, engineered unrest. A city that had prided itself for centuries on its blend of Muslim, Orthodox Christian, Roman Catholic and Jewish faiths and had put that cosmopolitan face on display in hosting the 1984 Winter Olympics swiftly found itself under siege. 
 For three and a half years, at the end of the 20th century, Sarajevo endured scenes more readily imagined as medieval. Almost 10,000 people were killed by the shells launched by Serbian forces in the surrounding mountains, or bullets fired by snipers from both sides hidden in city buildings.
 Some of the dead perished from hunger and cold in a city kept alive largely by United Nations peacekeeping forces who frequently found themselves forced to suspend incoming flights of aid and food because of Serbian attacks on the planes.
 Eventually, Mr. Milosevic, his economy ruined by sanctions and his patience with Mr. Karadzic and the Bosnian Serbs' military leader, Ratko Mladic, wearing thin, decided that the war had to end.
 In the late spring of 1995, the American diplomat Richard C. Holbrooke started reaching out to the Serbs, signaling that Washington might be prepared to do an unsavory deal with the war's protagonists.
 The international impulse to end the violence was then strengthened in July 1995 by the massacre of some 7,000 Muslim men and boys by General Mladic's men after they overran the town of Srebrenica, an enclave supposedly guarded by the United Nations in eastern Bosnia.

Trouble in Kosovo
 But domestically, disillusionment had set in, and Mr. Milosevic faced new trouble, in Kosovo, where the Albanians, long admired for their nonviolent resistance to the Serbian security forces who took over the province in the early 1990's, had decided to turn to armed rebellion.
 Attacks by the Kosovo Liberation Army multiplied during 1998. Mr. Holbrooke and other outsiders returned to the Balkans and their long sessions with Mr. Milosevic, trying to prevent a renewed outbreak of war. But the Serbian leader would not withdraw from Kosovo. And so, in March 1999, NATO, for the first time, went to war, bombing Serbia until Mr. Milosevic eventually agreed, in June that year, to pull back his men and allow NATO peacekeepers to enter the province, which remains to this day a United Nations protectorate.
 This defeat, the economic ruin and isolation that Mr. Milosevic had brought upon Serbia stirred up opposition at home, culminating in his election defeat in 2000, and then to his dispatch to The Hague in 2001.
 Although he ended his days in a jail cell, Mr. Milosevic carved an indelible mark on the 20th century history of Europe.
 Mr. Babic, the erstwhile Milosevic ally who died just days before his onetime patron, summed up Mr. Milosevic's legacy when testifying against him in The Hague in 2002. ''You brought shame upon the Serbian people,'' he said. ''You brought misfortune on the Croatian people, on the Muslim people'' and ''orchestrated'' the Balkan conflict.
 Indeed, Mr. Milosevic dashed all the joy that came with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the crumbling of Communism across the rest of Eastern Europe.
 ''At a time when there was real optimism in Europe, Milosevic almost single-handedly -- with help from some Croats and some Serbs -- managed to plunge Europe into a profound crisis,'' said Misha Glenny, a British expert on the Balkans. ''Even in Serbia, there will be few people mourning his death because he did great damage to Serbia, as he did to other Yugoslav republics.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The obituary of Slobodan Milosevic on Sunday referred incorrectly in some copies to the year in which his former ally, Milan Babic, testified against him at his trial in The Hague. It was 2002, not 1992.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE NATIONALIST -- Slobodan Milosevic, then the Serbian leader, spoke in Kosovo on June 28, 1989, on the 600th anniversary of the Battle of Kosovo. His nationalist dreams plunged the Balkans into war. (Photo by Tomislav Peternek/Polaris)
THE NEGOTIATOR -- Mr. Milosevic, at the table top right, agreed to a peace deal in Dayton, Ohio, in 1995. Although he was forced to give up his dream of a greater Serbian state, he was able to consolidate his power. (Pool photo by Joe Marquette)
 THE DEFENDANT -- Mr. Milosevic, shown here in The Hague in 2003, was standing trial on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in connection with his actions while he was in power in Belgrade. (Photo by Paul Vreeker/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (93%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); AUTOPSIES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); MEDICAL TOURISM (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

BILL CLINTON (53%) Marlise Simons; Alison Smale

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); DAYTON, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (79%) SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); CROATIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); FRANCE (67%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%) Serbia; Bosnia; Kosovo (Serbia); Croatia

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



252 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Work on Darwin's 'Abominable Mystery'

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
They will not be cloning sheep, engineering mutants or genetically modifying corn in the new biological research laboratory. And its ZIP code isn't in Berkeley, Cambridge or even Manhattan. 
 It's 10458, in the Bronx. The new $23 million facility -- the first laboratory to be built at the New York Botanical Garden in 50 years -- is expected to take genetic research at the nation's botanical gardens to a new level. Scholars at the new laboratory will be doing research into the ecology, habitat and biology of plants at a time when many species are increasingly endangered.
The laboratory, as well as its research program, ''is a bold initiative, a departure for American botanical gardens,'' said Michael J. Donoghue, a Yale University professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, who is the director of Yale's Peabody Museum of Natural History. 
 Dr. Donoghue said the laboratory's research would add to scientific knowledge about conservation, biodiversity, climate change and the interaction of plants and humans. Thanks to its focus on plant genomics, the study of how genes function in plant development, the laboratory will enable the botanical garden ''to carve out a very interesting world niche,'' he said.
 Later this month, the new laboratory will begin to be inhabited by scientists, and after its completion, the official opening on May 16 is expected to be attended not only by the Nobel laureate James D. Watson, co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, but also by Edward O. Wilson, the biologist and Pulitzer Prize-winning author, and Oliver W. Sacks, the author and neurologist. 
 Scientists will be closely monitoring the laboratory's future work on many urgent questions.
 Ultimately, said Dennis Stevenson, the garden's vice president for botanical science, some of its long-term research could provide answers to ''what Darwin called the abominable mystery -- when, where and why flowering plants emerged.''
 That was when plants began utilizing insects for pollination, which was more efficient than wind or water, he said, adding that as far as scientists know, flowering plants appeared 100 million years ago -- ''out of nowhere,'' he said. The completion of the 28,000-square-foot, two-floor facility will triple the garden's research capacity and ensure training of the next generation of plant scientists, said Gregory Long, president of the mile-long, 250-acre garden, a national historic landmark.
 Built with money from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, New York State and New York City, it is to be called the Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory, after its largest private donor. The construction is part of a 15-year, $520 million program of development and restoration at the garden, which is 115 years old and draws 600,000 visitors a year. 
 Some of the laboratory's research will further the discipline of molecular systematics -- the study of DNA as evidence that can reveal the evolutionary history and relationships of plant species. Other scientists will be studying plant genomics, addressing the way in which plant genes function in larger sets of genomes.
 The research will also address less theoretical concerns: Michael Balick, a staff scientist, will use the new laboratory to study medicinal plant use in Dominican immigrant communities in New York City. And Dr. Stevenson will be trying to identify the genetic mechanism by which neurotoxins are produced in some plants, work that may be related to nerve disease in humans. 
 The new laboratory will be an ornament of the science campus in the non-public northwest quadrant of the garden. A staff of 200 trains 42 doctoral students at a time from all over the world, and since the 1890's, the garden's scientists have mounted about 2,000 exploratory missions across the planet to collect plants in the wild.
 The new building, of tawny precast concrete, glass, painted steel and copper, was designed by Polshek Partnership Architects. It has views of twin spring-fed, wooded lakes populated with mature red oaks and glacially shaped outcrops of Fordham gneiss.
 Its second-floor ornament, and largest laboratory, will have 24 research stations, some of them robotic. There, investigating plant genomics, scientists will sequence plant genes -- that is, analyze the unique genetic code in a sample and break down each gene into its building-block chemicals. The process once took several days for each gene, but new technology will permit the analysis of 600 genes per day. 
 In the plant chemistry laboratory, chemical compounds from plants will be extracted to create a library of the chemistry of the world's plants, and permit scientists to trace plants' evolutionary history. 
 And a 768-square-foot DNA storage room with 20 freezers will store millions of specimens, including rare, endangered or extinct species. To protect them during winter power outages, there is a backup 300-kilowatt electric generator. 
 The institution's research will be more diverse than research in universities and pharmaceutical companies. To Dr. Donoghue at Yale, many commercial research laboratories ''are interested in economically important plants like rice and corn, but the botanical garden is a pure research institution.'' 
 The botanical garden's president, Mr. Long, added, ''And we don't do genetic engineering.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Rosen, left, and Paul Tully dismantled scaffolding last December after plastering the lobby ceiling.
 A west view of the Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory, opening soon at the New York Botanical Garden. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); CLONING (90%); BOTANY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); DNA (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); HISTORY (78%); GENOMICS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); ANIMAL CLONING (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); EVOLUTION THEORY (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); WRITERS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) Flowers and Plants ; Dna (Deoxyribonucleic Acid); Genetics and Heredity; Research; Laboratories and Scientific Equipment

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (91%) Pfizer Plant Research Laboratory; New York Botanical Garden; Pfizer Inc

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



253 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: You Must Remember This, or Just Forget About It 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Blind Homer of Ionia, who may not have existed, is said to have committed the 27,000 lines of his ''Iliad'' and ''Odyssey'' completely to memory.
 Sherlock Holmes of 221B Baker Street, who did not exist, had a capacious memory for poisons but did not know that the Earth revolves around the sun.
Yesterday, 37 people in Manhattan who do exist, but each of them neither Holmes nor Homer, competed in an auditorium near Union Square in what might be described as a memory pageant. 
 Racially diverse and mostly young (many were high school students), they ranged from a 12-year-old boy from Farmingdale, N.Y., to a 52-year-old man from River Falls, Wis. With the exception of one young woman in high-heeled boots, they all wore comfortable shoes.
 In the morning session, they attempted to remember long lists of random numbers, 99 names and faces, a shuffled deck of cards and a 50-line poem that no one had seen.
 In the afternoon session, after contestants were culled to a few finalists, came the grueling championship rounds, including the hammer blow: a simulated party with detailed introductions of five guests, their dates of birth, hometowns, telephone numbers, pets, hobbies, favorite automobiles and favorite foods.
 The winner got a trophy and two economy-fare airplane tickets to compete in the World Memory Championship in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in August.
 The pageant is known formally as the 9th Annual USA National Memory Championship. It used to be called the USA Memoriad, ''but it was too difficult for people to remember,'' said the event's organizer, Anthony J. Dottino, 58, a business consultant in New Rochelle, N.Y.
 Contestants pay $25 to enter, but the contest, part of a world circuit originally organized in England, is mainly a labor of love for Mr. Dottino, who said he loses money on it.
 ''When has anyone taught you how to improve your memory and how to learn?'' Mr. Dottino asked. ''The answer is never. And I said to myself, wow, what a chance to make a difference'' with a memory competition.
 Most memory techniques derive from the classical world and associate new information with vivid old information. The ''Roman Room'' technique, for remembering unstructured information like random numbers, uses objects in a familiar room. The ''Journey'' method, for remembering structured information, uses stops on a familiar path.
 The atmosphere yesterday at the Consolidated Edison auditorium, on Irving Place, where the memory meet was held, was cool and hushed, with a dash of furrowed brow.
 The six finalists were a 17-year-old high school swimmer from Mechanicsburg, Pa., who was the only woman; a 23-year-old Yale-educated writer working on a book on memory; a 25-year-old business analyst from Richmond, Va., who used to play blindfold chess in his native India; a 29-year-old software engineer from San Francisco; a 30-year-old German-born importer of cosmetics products now living in Hurst, Tex.,; and a 47-year-old improve-your-memory instructor, also from Richmond.
 But first the finalists had to survive the morning rounds. Each contestant sat at a small table with two pens, two bottles of something called ''Smart Water,'' and a paper placard with a competitor's name and the words ''mental athlete'' below it.
 Contestants rubbed their noses, pulled their ears and twisted their hair in concentration. One man pressed two fingers above each eyebrow, as if to stamp each number, shuffled card, face and name into his brain.
 In the end, there were two finalists: Ram Kolli, the business analyst, whose parents got him interested in memory competition; and Joshua Foer, who covered last year's competition for Slate magazine and is now writing a book on the history of memorization.
 Perhaps the toughest event in the memory meet is remembering a shuffled deck of cards. The organizers enforce a ''total silence, no movement'' rule, meaning spectators can neither talk nor move during the five minutes spent memorizing cards.
 Last year, Maurice Stoll, the cosmetics importer from Texas, won the event with 52 correct cards in a then record 1 minute 56 seconds.
 Yesterday, Mr. Foer won in a record 1 minute 40 seconds. And he went on to win the overall contest and the tickets to Malaysia.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Soumalia Morov concentrates during the poetry portion where contestants have to remember as much as they can of a 50-line poem.
 Finalists in the 9th Annual USA National Memory Championship were, from left, Ram Kolli, Erin Hope Luley, Joshua Foer, Paul Mellor, Maurice Stoll and Chester Santos. Mr. Foer won the contest yesterday and will go to Malaysia in August to compete in the World Memory Championship. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); WOMEN (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (67%); SWIMMING (66%); SPORTS (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) Memory; Contests and Prizes; Usa Memory Championship; World Memory Championship

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (51%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez; Joshua Foer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (53%) New York City; Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



254 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Globalization Offered Two Ways: a la Carte and Prix Fixe

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
LIKE gravity, globalization has come to be seen in recent years as an unstoppable force of nature. If the world is flat, capital, goods and services can go wherever they want. But last week, the process of cross-border economic integration suffered the same fate as foolish mortals who would defy Newtonian physics: it crashed to earth.
 The furious fight over whether several port terminals in the United States should be owned by a company based in Dubai was resolved uncharacteristically and abruptly on Thursday. DP World, owned by the government of the United Arab Emirates, announced it would transfer the American operations of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, the British company it is in the process of acquiring. 
During the port debate, opponents warned darkly of the perils of Arab control of vital industry in the United States, and advocates warned, equally darkly, of the perils of alienating foreign investors. But the maelstrom over maritime services is not the first heated exchange on the way globalization appears to pit national economic interests against national security.
 Last summer, anguished protests stopped the Chinese oil company Cnooc from acquiring United States-based Unocal, even though Unocal slakes only a tiny fraction of America's oil thirst. Indeed, the Dubai controversy is merely the latest manifestation of a new condition afflicting politicians, policymakers and ordinary citizens all over the globe. Call it Selective Globalization Syndrome. 
 The main symptom: a desire to pick and choose the outcomes of globalization, as if from an a la carte menu. For instance, nobody squawked in 2004 when DP World, then British-owned, bought the port operation of Florida's CSX Corporation for $1.2 billion, or when a company based in Dubai bought the Essex House hotel in New York for $440 million last year. 
 Yet pro-globalization presidents and policymakers can be anti-globalists when convenient. President Bush, an ardent champion of free trade, has fervently argued for the ports transaction as a matter of principle. But he ordered protective steel tariffs early in his first term, and has shown little interest in exposing sugar growers in politically important states like Florida to the benefits of global competition.
 Selective Globalization Syndrome drives politicians and government officials to even more seemingly contradictory stances. For instance, a Dubai-based company controlling East Coast ports is an unacceptable security risk, but Chinese companies controlling West Coast ports is fine.
 The government body that approves such deals, the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, had no problem with China's Lenovo controlling I.B.M.'s personal computer business. But it is examining the proposal by Check Point Software Technologies, an Israel-based company, to acquire Sourcefire, a Maryland-based software company that makes security products used by the federal government. 
 Selective Globalization Syndrome is also sweeping Europe. Political elites on the Continent may fancy themselves far less parochial and unilateral than their counterparts in the United States. Yet the prospect of foreign companies acquiring certain businesses inspires nationalistic angst. In Spain, whose banks have been re-enacting the conquista by acquiring rivals in Latin America, a bid from a German utility E.On for the Spanish utility Endesa has set off alarm bells. Apparently, the prospect of German engineers controlling the Spanish electricity grid is an insult to national dignity.
 The United States, however, is similarly eager to dictate investment terms to non-citizens.
 Buying debt? No problem. Foreign investors own more than half of United States government bonds. The biggest portfolios reside on the ledgers of China's central bank and of various Saudi Arabian and other Persian Gulf government-controlled entities. But equity, which connotes ownership and control, in the same people's hands sparks off Selective Globalization Syndrome. 
 ''Our public is very concerned about a foreign country, in this case specifically a foreign country from the Middle East, having a major role in our ports,'' said Representative Jerry Lewis, a California Republican. But this is closing the barn door after it's already been sold.
 ''The substantial majority of American containerized commerce is handled in U.S. ports by marine terminal operators that are subsidiaries or affiliates of foreign enterprises,'' said Christopher Koch, the president of the World Shipping Council, in recent Senate testimony. 
 Selective Globalization Syndrome causes politicians to lash out at symbolic issues they can influence, like the ports deal, because they cannot or don't want to confront the root cause: the propensity of American government and consumers to buy more than they produce, to export more than they import and to borrow more than they save. 
 The United States runs a gigantic trade deficit, some $723 billion in 2005, which means it exports huge amounts of capital. But the foreigners who receive all those dollars in exchange for oil or manufactured goods are no longer content to park those greenbacks in government bonds.
 ''Why hold Treasuries that give you a mediocre 4.5 percent return over 30 years when you can instead buy higher return capital such as U.S. corporations, factories, ports and real estate?'' asks Nouriel Roubini, an economics professor at New York University's Stern School of Business.
 Open borders and the free flow of goods and services across borders have created the conditions for Selective Globalization Syndrome to spread. And it may just be in its early stages.
 Emboldened by their success at thwarting the Dubai ports deal, legislators are now more eager to challenge foreign economic interests in the name of national security. Members of Congress are falling over themselves to introduce legislation that would tighten the review process, requiring, for example, extended scrutiny of any deal involving a state-owned company.
 But they had better hurry. The International Monetary Fund has noted that the world's fuel-exporting nations will have a $533 billion current account surplus in 2006. That's a half-trillion dollars for foreign countries, specifically foreign countries from the Middle East, to put to work in government bonds, stocks, real estate and, yes, whole companies.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 12 about the debate over globalization misstated a characteristic of the United States economy that leads to foreign ownership of American companies. The United States imports more than it exports, not the reverse.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nick Dewar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); POLITICS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MENU PRICES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); SUGAR FARMING (50%) Ships and Shipping ; International Trade and World Market; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (83%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (70%); DP WORLD LTD (57%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (55%); ESSEX HOUSE HOTEL (53%); SOURCEFIRE INC (50%); CHECK POINT SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Dp World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (83%); DPW (LSE) (57%); FIRE (NASDAQ) (50%); CHKP (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (70%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (70%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (70%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (70%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



255 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1936 words

HEADLINE: Alive and Well in Silicon Alley

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

 BODY:
THEY arrived in crisp button-downs and pleated Dockers, 150 or so, nearly all men in their 20's and 30's, few of whom would probably object to being called a nerd. 
 The event, the New York Tech Meetup -- part technology conference, part Showtime at the Apollo for geeks -- was a monthly gathering where entrepreneurs are invited to access their inner Steve Jobs by describing their companies for a discerning and occasionally rowdy audience of technologists and venture capitalists.
 As Drew Robertson, a suited executive from an Internet company called CallinSearch, learned the hard way, it can be a tough crowd. 
 Mr. Robertson took the podium to give a strictly timed five-minute pitch for CallinSearch, a program that allows Web surfers to make phone calls and send instant messages to sites turned up by search engines. He began by asking his tech-savvy listeners simplistic questions about their knowledge of the Web. 
 ''You're going to get booed off before you start,'' shouted Scott Heiferman, a founder of the social networking company Meetup and the organizer of the Tech Meetup.
 Prescient words, it turned out. Mr. Robertson faced a barrage of withering questions and eventually slunk offstage to mocking laughter from the audience.
 ''I got ambushed,'' he said afterward. ''I didn't know it was a 'Gong Show' thing.''
 Rambunctious technology gatherings in Manhattan? Venture capitalists on the prowl? Geeks having fun at the expense of suits? What was this, 1998?
 In fact, it was last Tuesday, and the bustle around the New York Tech Meetup, which began with just four attendees a little more than a year ago, is but one bit of evidence that reports of the death of Silicon Alley may have been greatly exaggerated.
 Though few new-media entrepreneurs would say it loudly for fear of jinxing themselves, Silicon Alley is buzzing again. In recent months a number of Manhattan new-media companies have been involved in heady high-dollar deals that carried a faint but alluring whiff of the good old days. Start-ups are once again popping up like mushrooms in Manhattan, and last May the New York Software Industry Association opened a technology incubator at its headquarters at 55 Broad Street. It now houses 14 new companies.
 And while blog publishers like Gawker Media have garnered much of the attention in the last couple of years, the action on the Alley extends far beyond blogs to software companies, e-mail newsletter publishers and online entertainment companies. 
 At the Tech Meetup, there were presentations from a new search engine company called Transparensee, a company called Loto that translates Web pages between Chinese and English, and Homethinking, a site that ranks real estate brokers based on sales histories.
 ''Everything is cranking up,'' said Nicholas Butterworth, a member of the original Silicon Alley generation of the mid-90's who is himself starting a new technology company. ''There is definitely something in the air. It's not exactly the same as it was the first time around, but it's got some of that same spirit.''
 Mr. Butterworth, a founder of the online music site SonicNet back in the day, is soon to move into an office at the Broad Street incubator. Sounding very 1995, he declined to discuss his new venture on the grounds that he is in stealth mode.
 The surest sign of renewed life in Silicon Alley -- a broad term for New York's digital media scene, most of it located in lower Manhattan -- has been the deals. Last week the women's portal iVillage, a survivor of the first boom and bust, was sold to NBC Universal for $600 million. Last fall AOL bought Weblogs Inc., a publisher of blogs including the popular technology site Engadget, for $25 million.
 In January, Heavy.com, an online entertainment company aimed at young men, took on $10 million in venture capital. On Thursday, Mr. Heiferman's Meetup announced it had sold a 10 percent stake to a group of investors that included eBay. 
 But perhaps the news that set the Manhattan digital scene most atwitter was a report in The Wall Street Journal last month about a potential sale by Robert W. Pittman, the former MTV and AOL executive, of Daily Candy, an e-mail newsletter about fashion, dining and travel trends. According to The Journal, Mr. Pittman, who paid roughly $3.5 million for a majority share of Daily Candy in 2003, was putting the company on the block for upward of $100 million, about 9 or 10 times its earnings, a conservative multiple by technology industry standards.
 But the mere notion of a sum that large was enough to paralyze some aspiring Alley entrepreneurs between present-day hopes and the cold reality of just a few years ago.
 ''It's great for Daily Candy and exciting for the industry,'' said Sascha Lewis, a founder of flavorpill, a publisher of e-mail newsletters about cultural happenings. ''But what we have to do today is keep the lights on. You've got to learn from the lessons of the past. All that is just noise until things happen.''
 Not so long ago Silicon Alley was all but obliterated. Dozens of companies went out of business during the burst of the technology bubble, and the economic slow-down following the 9/11 attacks took still more. Employment in information technology in New York City plummeted to around 35,000 at the end of 2005 from around 50,000 in 2000, according to the New York State Labor Department. 
 Along the way any semblance of a digital community in New York dissolved as well. Launch parties gave way to pink slip-parties and then to no parties at all. The Silicon Alley Reporter, a trade publication, folded, and the New York New Media Association, a focal point for the tech community during the boom, quietly closed its doors in 2003. Nerds went underground.
 ''In 2002 it was definitely embarrassing to say you were doing Internet stuff,'' said Mr. Heiferman, who founded the Web advertising firm i-Traffic in 1995 and Meetup in 2002. ''It seemed so passe.''
 A number of factors have contributed to the rebound, investors and online executives said. Start-up costs and overhead for running a consumer-oriented Internet company have plummeted, as hardware prices have fallen and packaged or open-source software has taken the place of the programming departments that once had to build sites from scratch.
 New forms of targeted advertising from companies like Yahoo and Google have allowed small companies to sell adds online without sales staffs. And large established companies with hefty marketing budgets have been spending more on online advertising.
 But perhaps the biggest change on the Alley has been the shift from a culture of profligacy to one of financial discipline. While first-generation Web entrepreneurs once boasted of mountains of venture capital, massages for staff and Aeron office chairs for all, the current crop of Alley executives can't let a conversation go by without pointing out how utterly miserly they are.
 ''I was crazy cheap,'' said Dany Levy, the founder and editor in chief of Daily Candy, explaining how she built her business. She said she has long urged employees to print on both sides of a sheet of paper, and that she bought candy for her company's media kits in bulk from Duane Reade just after Halloween, when it was on sale.
 In the SoHo offices of Thrillist.com, a three-man start-up that aims to be a kind of Daily Candy for men, Ben Lerer, 24, one of its founders, said his business plan ''is all about saving every possible penny.'' He said he and his partner, Adam Rich, 25, pay their sole employee, a writer named David Blend, ''beer money,'' a claim Mr. Blend disputed. 
 ''Actually it's half my beer money,'' Mr. Blend said. 
 During the dark years, some first-generation Silicon Alley companies held on by laying off employees and cutting costs. Rufus Griscom, the chief executive of Nerve, the sexy literary site and Web community, said he employs half the number of people he did in 2001. 
 Other true believers started pared-down companies from the rubble of the bust. Mr. Lewis and Mark Mangan, for example, were partners in an e-commerce company that sold furnishings and accessories and went belly up in 2001. As part of their marketing campaign, the two published a weekly e-mail letter about cultural events, which they called flavorpill. They continued to publish the newsletter from their part-time jobs -- Mr. Mangan as a Web developer and Mr. Lewis as a D.J. -- and organically built an audience before pitching big companies for advertising business. 
 Since then, flavorpill has run ads for American Express, Audi and Anheuser-Busch. The company now publishes nine e-mail letters with 300,000 subscribers, and it has been profitable for the last three years, Mr. Lewis said. Last year revenues were close to $2 million. 
 ''It's the classic 'learn from your mistakes and move on,' '' he said. ''All of us who were here for the first go-round understand how the hype and hysteria allowed for an overzealousness and a lack of focus.''
 Mr. Griscom of Nerve has had a similar turnaround, he said, adding that Nerve has increased its revenues by an average of 37 percent a year for the last five years. ''Compared with 2001, we now have half the staff, half the buzz, and more than five times the revenue,'' Mr. Griscom said. 
 Another sign of change: Mr. Griscom said employees are again agitating for stock options. ''After 2001 nobody ever asked me about options,'' he said. ''There wasn't that sense of opportunity.'' He said his company unveiled an options package for employees last week.
 Because of their organic growth and lean budgets, many successful companies have little or no need for venture capital, the lifeblood of the first round of Manhattan new media companies, which tended to spend first in the (sometimes vain) hope of earning later. Josh Abramson, a founder of CollegeHumor.com, said some weeks he gets daily feelers from venture capitalists eager to invest in his company, which had $6 million in revenue last year, up from $2 million the year before. He tells them all the same thing: no thanks.
 ''We make enough to finance our growth on our own,'' he said. ''The reason we've been successful so far is because we've been pretty stingy. We haven't spent any money we didn't have.'' 
 The preferred exit strategy has changed in Silicon Alley as well. The first time around, initial public offerings of stock were the holy grail of Internet executives, a mentality that resulted in countless paper millionaires who were never able to cash out their shares. 
 The more common exit these days is to follow in the footsteps of the photo-sharing service Flickr or the social bookmarking company del.icio.us, both of which were bought by Yahoo for undisclosed sums. Dodgeball, a mobile-phone-based social networking service founded by a graduate student at New York University, was bought by Google last May. A private sale to a larger Internet or media company can end with in cash in hand, if at less astronomical sums than during the bubble years. 
 A lot could go wrong to derail the momentum of New York's technology scene. Advertising spending could drop. A shortage of talented programmers could slow the speed of development, Mr. Butterworth said. And it's unclear whether big Internet companies will continue to pay large sums for individual companies like Flickr and Dodgeball that are essentially one-off features for their sites. With these uncertainties and the memories of the bust not entirely faded, Ms. Levy said she planned to stay cheap.
 "There is all this buzz about valuations,'' she said. "But you never know.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE EASEL -- Steve Lok, left, and Carl-Johan Nakamura of Medikin, one of 14 start-ups with offices at the technology incubator at 55 Broad Street. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
AT THE TABLE -- Adam Rich, left, 25, and Ben Lerer, 24, founders of Thrillist.com, an e-main newsletter for men. Below, the sometimes tough crowd hears out a speaker at the New York Tech Meetup last week. (Photos by Marvi Lacar for The New York Times
below, Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 5)
 (Satellite image by Google Earth)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (84%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); INSTANT MESSAGING (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (75%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); TRENDS (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Computers and the Internet; Industry Profiles; Computer Software; Economic Conditions and Trends; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: New York Software Association

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (70%) Warren St John

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



256 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2006 Honda Civic; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Once Strait-Laced, Now Spacey

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
LIKE Kobe Bryant on an N.B.A. points binge, Honda has been lighting up the scoreboard.
 A jury of auto writers voted the 2006 Civic the North American Car of the Year. Motor Trend named it Car of the Year, as did The Detroit News. ''MotorWeek,'' on public television, anointed it Best of the Year. The Civic got awards from AutoWeek, Autobytel, Edmunds.com and Kelley Blue Book, among others. It made Consumer Reports' top picks list.
When a car is so highly and broadly acclaimed, it's hard to buck the trend and say it isn't sensational. Still, after three weeks of back-to-back test drives -- of the sedan, the coupe and the hybrid -- I remain unenthusiastic about the new Civic. 
 True, the car is roomier, more refined and more powerful than before, and it is wrapped in a fresh package. Its engines are above reproach, as Honda's always are. The company's commitment to safety is evident in an array of reassuring features.
 Yet the Civic didn't bowl me over, largely because I had to work too hard to drive it. In an effort to transform the car from strait-laced to snazzy, designers gave it a space-age body and high-tech dashboard. Both changes raised serious visibility issues: I found the Civic distracting to drive and awkward to park.
 Since the Civic arrived in America 33 years ago, Honda has sold 7 million (out of 16 million worldwide). Reliable, affordable, fun to drive and easy to live with, it became the nation's best-selling small car.
 But while the Civic's design used to be conservative, the new one is swoopy. Its steeply raked windshield looks futuristic and its short hood slopes further down than that of the previous Civic. But the front of the car is invisible from the driver's seat, at least for a short driver like this one. The view provides no comfort zone in close quarters. 
 The Civic's new styling hints at that of the Toyota Prius hybrid. This is not necessarily a bad thing -- the car is attractive enough -- although it seems out of character for Honda. Just as important, the styling improves the aerodynamics and makes the Civics even more fuel-efficient. The new Civic coupe, with its sleek silhouette, is the jazziest one yet. 
 But I was put off by the vast two-tier dashboard. An upper brow, near the windshield, includes a speedometer with large digital numbers -- perhaps intended to appeal to video gamers. Other gauges are lower and closer, in a more conventional format. I found my eyes darting from the road to the speedometer to the other readouts, and I never grew accustomed to the layout.
 Otherwise, the interior is comfortable, roomy and beautifully put together. Controls are intuitive and easy to use. Yet the cabin was not very quiet, with rattles from the front, and engine and road noise that seemed excessive in cars that seemed so polished otherwise. 
 The Civic promises to have the same consistently high quality as past Civics, a factor in their strong resale value. And the Civic comes in a lot of styles, so its fits a variety of tastes and budgets.
 I particularly like the fact that all of the most important safety features, including antilock brakes, side air bags and head-protection curtains, are standard on all models.
 Among the conventional sedans and coupes, three trim levels offer a variety of standard features, from the base DX to high-volume LX and top-of-the-line EX. Those three versions come with a 1.8-liter, 16-valve four-cylinder engine, rated at 140 horsepower. While that is in the middle of the compact-car pack, the Civic's power is just adequate.
 But the high-revving engine could use a bit more than its 128 pound-feet of torque. The Civic is a bit slow off the line and struggles on steep hills.
 A smooth five-speed manual transmission is standard, and a silky automatic -- the only five-speed in the class -- is optional. 
 This summer, Honda will add a natural-gas-powered GX and, in the fall, a sedan version of the performance-oriented Si coupe, bringing the total number of Civic variations to 10, each with a specific audience.
 The Civic's ride is comfortable and its handling responsive, though only the sporty Si coupe is truly spirited.
 The Civic Hybrid is quite impressive. In my limited testing, mostly running errands around town, the car's economy meter registered 50 m.p.g., and higher, much of the time.
 But even the conventional coupe and sedan deliver impressive mileage. With the automatic transmission, they are rated at 30 miles per gallon in town and 40 on the highway -- well ahead of the competition. 
 You won't find Civics in the bargain basement, despite a base price around $15,000. Fancy versions can be quite pricey, and the EX sedan and EX coupe that I tested, both with navigation systems, topped $21,000.

INSIDE TRACK: Still solid, but perhaps not as friendly as before.


GRAPHIC: Photos: EX sedan, top, and coupe are two members of the growing Civic family.Chart: ''Four Contemporary Compact Sedans'' lists features and specifications for selected compact sedans. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (90%); TRENDS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%) Automobiles; Reviews 

COMPANY: KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (57%); AUTOBYTEL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co

TICKER: ABTL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (73%) Michelle Krebs

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



257 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Gas-Plant Foes Get Sympathy in Congress

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IT is one thing for environmental groups in Connecticut and Long Island to say that the liquefied natural gas plant in Long Island Sound proposed by Broadwater Energy is not only a monstrously bad idea but also unnecessary. 
 It becomes something more when these grass-roots scrappers -- like Leah Lopez Schmalz of Save the Sound, in Norwalk; Donald S. Strait of the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, in New Haven; and Adrienne Esposito of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment, in Farmingdale, N.Y. -- say it with the backing of powerful politicians.
 The backing, in this case, has become quite literal. At a news conference in the Russell Senate Office Building in Washington last Thursday, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Joseph I. Lieberman and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrats of Connecticut, stood behind Ms. Esposito and Mr. Strait as they released a report by Synapse Energy Economics of Cambridge, Mass., that struck at Broadwater where it could hurt most. 
 The report, commissioned by the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, detailed why, in Synapse experts' view, the billion cubic feet a day of natural gas that Broadwater would provide is not needed and is hardly worth the industrialization of the Sound. Even if large volumes of new gas were ever required, the report said, two liquefied natural gas plants under construction in eastern Canada, each with capacity equal to Broadwater's, could deliver the gas through the regional pipeline system before Broadwater could be built.
 Broadwater disputed many of the assertions in the Synapse report, but the Washington moment was a high-water mark to date for environmentalists intent on stopping Broadwater. They said the deep-seated opposition to the project on both sides of the Sound increased their influence. 
 ''Up until now, it has been this wave of opposition based on the industrialization of the Sound and the environmental impacts,'' said Ms. Schmalz, who was in the wings at the news conference. ''Now for the first time we actually have concrete evidence that shows Broadwater is not necessary.''
 Broadwater, a partnership of Shell and the Trans-Canada Corporation, filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Jan. 30 to build the plant, which would be about the size of the Queen Mary 2, and float about 9 miles from Wading River in New York and 11 miles from New Haven. It is asking for a decision by next March.
 The Bush administration strongly supports liquefied natural gas projects, and recent changes in federal law increased the authority of the commission to approve projects, even when state and local governments object.
 Mr. Strait of the Connecticut Fund for the Environment said that Bush administration support for such projects and the diminished powers of states to oppose them made stopping Broadwater more challenging. But Mr. Strait said the Synapse report could help turn the tide. 
 ''Long Island Sound is a resource that we have to protect, and this report gives us a great tool to do that,'' he said.
 Mr. Strait, a lawyer from Stamford, grew up in Fairfield and said he has been involved in public-interest environmental work since graduating from Harvard Law School in 1985. He worked for the Natural Resources Defense Council in Manhattan before joining the Connecticut Fund for the Environment in 1990. He became its executive director, a paid position, in 1992.
 Ms. Schmalz is a lawyer in Guilford and a graduate of Pace University Law School. Because of her desire to practice environmental law, Ms. Schmalz, who grew up in Louisiana, answered an advertisement from Save the Sound seeking a lawyer and has worked there for the last four and a half years. She is now the group's director of legislative and legal affairs. 
 Ms. Schmalz said the two Connecticut groups believed that the Broadwater proposal had immense consequences for Long Island Sound and the region as soon as it was announced, in November 2004. ''It really did leap out as something that had to be dealt with,'' she said. ''There was really no other option.'' 
 Ms. Schmalz and Ms. Esposito of Citizens Campaign for the Environment, an early opponent of the project on Long Island, knew each other from serving on the citizens advisory council of the Long Island Sound Study, a program of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Early on, Ms. Schmalz said, they recognized the benefits of a combined Long Island-Connecticut campaign to stop the Broadwater project. The opponents are loosely organized as the Sound Alliance in Connecticut and as the Anti-Broadwater Coalition on Long Island.
 Citizens Campaign says it has about 80,000 members and contributors, most of them in New York but some in Connecticut. Save the Sound and the Connecticut Fund for the Environment, which merged last year, claim about 6,450 members in Connecticut and New York. 
 Ms. Esposito said the cooperation between the Connecticut and Long Island groups had surpassed expectations. ''I have never seen anything like this bistate, bipartisan collaboration on a single issue,'' she said.
 Ms. Schmalz, Ms. Esposito and other project opponents said Washington was now the battlefield. They will meet with House and Senate staff members there next Friday at a session arranged by Mrs. Clinton's office to lay out strategy. 
 The environmental groups said they had found Senate and House staff members receptive to their efforts to line up political opposition to Broadwater. Mr. Strait said that the groups' success was a clear sign the elected officials knew public opinion was running against the project.
 The groups also said they would press for Congressional officials to go beyond statements of opposition. 
 ''With Broadwater, it's easy to say the right thing,'' said Richard Amper, the executive director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, in Riverhead. ''But the object of the game is to kill the project, not just be politically correct.''
 John Hritcko, the regional project director for Broadwater in Riverhead, N.Y., said the company encourages debate about its project but believes the federal commission proceeding was the forum for it. 
 He also said the Synapse report erred in its assessment of need and overestimated the availability of gas supplies from eastern Canada. 
 ''The contention that there is no need for natural gas in this region flies in the face of energy providers and planners who recognize that need,'' Mr. Hritcko said, referring to the New York metropolitan area. 
 He said Broadwater's filing with the federal commission clearly established need and other benefits, including lower energy costs. 
 Michael Rieke, the managing editor of Platts LNG Daily, a trade publication based in Houston, said the opponents' argument that Broadwater was not needed would have little influence on the federal regulators. 
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission does not base its decisions about terminals on market conditions, he said: ''They are leaving it up to the market to decide.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two opponents of a Long Island Sound gas plant, Donald S. Strait, second from left, and Adrienne Esposito, last week in Washington. (Photo by Andrew Cutraro for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Gas (Fuel); Gas (Fuel); Pipelines

ORGANIZATION: Save the Sound (Orgn); Connecticut Fund for the Environment; Citizens Campaign for the Environment; Broadwater Energy; synapse energy economics (co)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; Christopher J (Sen) Dodd; John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (90%) Long Island Sound; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



258 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rethinks Its Cutoff of Military Aid to Latin American Nations

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, March 11 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice indicated Saturday that the United States would look for ways to resume military assistance to Latin American nations cut off from aid programs because of their refusal to shield Americans from the International Criminal Court. 
 Officials traveling with Ms. Rice said that in meeting with President Evo Morales of Bolivia, she had emphasized the importance of cooperating on efforts to combat drugs despite his vow to end coca plant eradication programs. The newly installed Bolivian leader favors the legal cultivation of coca, the plant used to manufacture cocaine, but says he opposes cocaine and has agreed to let American antidrug officials remain in the country.
In a friendly but pointed gesture, he gave Ms. Rice a small guitar decorated on the front with real leaves from a coca plant in lacquer. Ms. Rice, perhaps not realizing that the decoration was from the plant that the United States has sought to eradicate, then smiled and strummed the guitar for television cameras. American officials said Bolivian leader was clearly trying to show how growing the plant that is made into cocaine is a part of his nation's culture.
 Eliminating or reducing military assistance to countries like Chile and Bolivia that are seeking to combat terrorism or drug trafficking is ''sort of the same as shooting ourselves in the foot,'' Ms. Rice told reporters on Friday as she traveled here for the inauguration of Michelle Bachelet as the new president of Chile.
 Ms. Rice said, however, that the Bush administration had limited flexibility in restoring aid because a law enacted by Congress required the cutoff of military aid to countries that did not exempt American citizens from being brought before the court.
 At least 30 countries have declined to enact an exemption, including 12 in Latin America and the Caribbean.
 At the time the law was adopted, the Defense Department supported it on grounds that American military officials based overseas might be brought before the court. More recently, administration officials said Defense Department officials had become concerned about the loss of military cooperation with key allies.
 Although the law allows President Bush to apply a waiver to cutting off military assistance, State Department officials said the administration was concerned that if some waivers were granted, other countries would demand them as well.
 A senior State Department official, briefing reporters under ground rules requiring anonymity, said Ms. Rice told Mr. Morales that Washington would to try to help provide economic opportunities to the ''marginalized sectors'' of Bolivia's economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (76%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); POLITICS (72%); GENOCIDE (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%); TERRORISM (66%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Drug Abuse and Traffic; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Foreign Aid ; United States Armament and Defense; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%) International Criminal Court

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); MICHELLE BACHELET (58%) Steven R Weisman; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BOLIVIA (95%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Latin America; Chile; Bolivia; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



259 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: City of Homes and Hoops Faces a Long Road Back

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mass., March 6 

 BODY:
Susan Joel lives in Springfield's most affluent neighborhood, yet some mornings she finds condoms on her block, discarded the previous night by prostitutes and their johns.
 The public school her 7-year-old daughter attends, not far from City Hall, is down the street from partially boarded-up buildings and a community center that closed its top floor because it was ''infested with pigeon droppings,'' Ms. Joel said.
 Friends in a middle-class neighborhood of Victorian homes had pellets from a gun pierce their front door. A neighbor's house was recently burglarized, and another neighbor's car was stolen -- twice. 
 ''Right now it feels very difficult to live here,'' said Ms. Joel, a sociology professor at Springfield College. ''If Springfield was a person, it would be clinically depressed.'' 
 Springfield, the third-largest city in Massachusetts, certainly seems down in the dumps, the victim of a decimated industrial base, middle-class flight and seemingly intractable poverty, all greatly aggravated by years of government mismanagement and corruption that have left it at risk of bankruptcy.
 The situation was not always so bleak for Springfield, which once generated a string of successful manufacturers, including Smith & Wesson, the handgun maker, and the Indian Motorcycle Company.
 And it was in Springfield where a local physical education teacher, James Naismith, invented basketball in 1891. 
 Nicknamed the City of Homes for its impressive stock of elegant older houses, Springfield is now pocked with decrepit buildings: burned-out hulks left standing in eerie silhouette against the sky because the city does not have the money to tear them down. A quarter of the city's 152,000 residents live in poverty. 
 Past efforts to fix the city have failed. Now Springfield is struggling to right itself under a rescue plan established 18 months ago by the Legislature and Gov. Mitt Romney. The plan authorized a $52 million loan for Springfield and put it under the direction of a financial control board comprising the mayor, the City Council president and three people appointed by the governor. 
 ''We're not out of the woods yet,'' Mayor Charles V. Ryan said.
 Thomas Trimarco, the state's secretary of administration and finance, said the loan would help only so much. ''There is no question that we don't have the long-term answer to Springfield,'' Mr. Trimarco said.
 That is putting it mildly. Springfield could go into receivership or even bankruptcy if it does not overcome two towering stumbling blocks. 
 One concerns the $52 million loan. Springfield has drawn down $22 million, but the state recently froze further draw-downs because it was clear Springfield could not repay the money by its due date. 
 Springfield officials and the control board want the Legislature to relax the terms of the loan so the city can get more of the money.
 ''Something has to be done,'' said Timothy J. Rooke, a city councilman and recent control board member. ''Either they have to change the language to allow us to borrow off of it, or change the language to make it a grant.'' 
 Legislative leaders are wary of bailing out a city where a grand jury investigating corruption seems permanently encamped. Among the corruption cases are the coming trial of the Springfield Housing Authority director and 12 other people on charges of racketeering, bribery, extortion and tax evasion. 
 And in October, former Mayor Michael Albano's chief of staff, Anthony Ardolino, was charged with tax evasion and conspiracy and accused of fixing thousands of dollars in parking tickets and skimming money from two bars he owned with his brother and an associate.
 The State Senate president, Robert E. Travaglini, said through a spokeswoman, Ann Dufresne, that he ''would be open to reviewing the conditions of the loan'' if the city showed that it was ''prepared to implement recommendations that will change the way Springfield does business.''
 The second stumbling block is negotiations with unions representing teachers, the police and firefighters. The teachers, who have been without a contract for four years, sued the city over its decision in 2003 to freeze wage increases. A judge recently sided with the teachers, who will now seek frozen raises from 2004 and 2005. 
 The city will appeal the court's ruling. If it loses, the teachers' union president, Timothy Collins, estimates that teachers will be owed about $13 million. Police officers and firefighters would then most likely sue over similar wage freezes, with the total cost to the city about $35 million in back pay. 
 State and city officials say the unions are unrealistic and unwilling to compromise as the city bleeds. They also say previous administrations were too solicitous to the unions, giving bigger raises than the city could afford and allowing perks like a decades-old provision giving police officers 60 sick days a year. 
 ''The attitude the unions are taking is just gimme, gimme, gimme,'' said Alan LeBovidge, commissioner of the state Department of Revenue and chairman of the control board. ''We can't give the unions money we don't have.''
 Labor leaders accuse Governor Romney of using the control board to quash the unions and burnish his stature among conservatives for a possible presidential campaign. 
 ''This governor has starved this city, and now he's trying to take advantage of that to put forward his draconian agenda,'' Mr. Collins said. 
 Everyone involved said they agreed that teacher morale was low, and many teachers are still leaving, scooping up higher-paying jobs in the suburbs or neighboring Connecticut.
 There are, however, some good signs in Springfield. The city's deficit, $41 million when the control board arrived, is now $6.5 million, Mayor Ryan said. Some wasteful practices, like giving liquor licenses to people with unpaid property taxes, have been scrapped. Real estate is appreciating, and the city just landed as its new police chief Edward A. Flynn, the highly regarded Massachusetts secretary of public safety. 
 But there is no sugar-coating Springfield's precarious position.
 ''The city really has been in technical bankruptcy for many years now,'' said Philip Puccia, the control board's executive director. ''There have been other control boards around the state, but none of them were in cities this big, and their problems were not as bad.'' 
 State and city officials say other belt-tightening measures may include selling golf courses, imposing trash fees on residents and asking nonprofit organizations for payments in lieu of taxes.
 The situation is so disheartening it is forcing out people like Bernie Cohen, a lawyer and 25-year resident who said he ''always believed you need to live in the community you're working in.'' 
 Now, Mr. Cohen and his wife say they are frustrated that from their Victorian home they can hear gunshots, including one from a nearby murder. And they are increasingly concerned about the education their two children are receiving. 
 ''While I don't want to sacrifice my ideals,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''I don't want to put my kids' safety and education at risk.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Charles V. Ryan says that even with a $52 million loan package and a reduced budget deficit, Springfield is ''not out of the woods yet.''
Susan Joel, a sociology professor at Springfield College, often finds condoms and empty bottles in her neighborhood, the city's most affluent.
 Springfield, Mass., known for its elegant housing, cannot afford even to tear down the dilapidated homes that dot its poorer neighborhoods. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)Map of Massachusetts highlighting Springfield: A quarter of Springfield's 152,000 residents are living in poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TRENDS (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); BURGLARY (70%); SMALL ARMS MFG (70%); ETHICS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); BASKETBALL (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUDGETS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); MOTORCYCLES (65%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); POLITICS (62%); MENTAL ILLNESS (53%) Bankruptcies; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Politics and Government ; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) Pam Belluck; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Springfield (Mass) ; Springfield (Mass) 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



260 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Group Endorses Plan for More Early Primaries

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11 

 BODY:
An influential Democratic committee on Saturday endorsed the idea of adding as many as four state primaries and caucuses to the early presidential nominating season, now dominated by Iowa and New Hampshire. 
 The goal, they said, was to add more racial, ethnic, regional and economic diversity to the process of choosing a Democratic nominee.
Iowa, whose caucus marks the opening of the nominating season, and New Hampshire, which holds the first primary, have long been criticized as far too homogeneous and atypical to exercise such a powerful influence over the process. 
 Back-to-back victories in those states can set a candidate on a glide path to the nomination -- as they did for Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts in 2004 -- before the bigger and more diverse states weigh in. 
 The voice vote came before the Democratic National Committee's Rules and Bylaws Committee. Only the representative from New Hampshire, which has long guarded its place in the calendar, voted against the plan, which was recommended by a party commission in December. 
 Under the plan, Iowa and New Hampshire would still hold their traditional places as the first caucus and primary. But up to two states would be allowed to hold caucuses after Iowa but before New Hampshire. And one or two other states would be allowed to hold primaries after New Hampshire, but before Feb. 5, the formal start of the season for the rest of the nation. Committee officials said they would seek applications from states interested in these slots.
 In addition to seeking diversity, officials seemed to be looking for smallish states with the kind of ''retail politics'' found in Iowa and New Hampshire. Such states allow more candidates to compete, including those without the financial resources to hold their own in a larger state that can be reached only by extensive advertising. 
 The plan's architects also seemed interested in giving more of a voice to states in the West, considered a growth area for Democrats. 
 The committee must still turn the recommendations into final rules, and changes are possible. But Alexis M. Herman, co-chairwoman of the committee, said, ''This was the crucial step.'' 
 Democrats have long debated passionately over the best way to choose a presidential nominee, and Saturday's session was no different, despite the lopsided decision. While some committee members said they needed more time to consider the report, others said they were weary of waiting for change. 
 ''I'm not about waiting anymore,'' said Donna Brazile, a committee member, who noted that the commission could have simply decided to do away with New Hampshire's and Iowa's privileged places in the calendar. ''I'm off the privilege notion now; I'm on to fairness.''
 The commission also debated using bonus delegates to reward states that move their contests back in the season. This is an effort to deal with another criticism of the nominating process -- that it is too ''front-loaded,'' with too many states bunched together in the early weeks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alexis Herman and James Roosevelt Jr. presided over the committee, which recommended adding up to four state primaries and caucuses.
 Ben Johnson, Elaine Kamarck and Donna Brazile at the Democratic National Committee's rules meeting yesterday in Washington. (Photographs by Michael Temchine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%) Primaries; Primaries

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States; New Hampshire; Iowa

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



261 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 8457 words

HEADLINE: The Fallback

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer who covers national politics for the magazine, is working on a book about Democratic politics.

 BODY:
If you harbor serious thoughts of running for the presidency, the first thing you do -- long before you commission any polls or make any ads, years before you charter planes to take you back and forth between Iowa and New Hampshire -- is to sit down with guys like Chris Korge. A real-estate developer in Coral Gables, outside Miami, Korge is one of the Democratic Party's most proficient ''bundlers.'' That is, in the last two presidential elections, he bundled together more than $7 million in campaign checks for Al Gore and John Kerry from his friends and contacts. 
For Korge, the 2008 presidential campaign began a few days after Kerry lost, when, he says, one prospective candidate -- he won't say who -- called to enlist his help. Having raised money for both of Bill Clinton's presidential campaigns, which earned him an overnight stay in the Lincoln Bedroom, Korge already knew he would support Hillary Clinton if she ran; he considers her the most impressive politician he has ever met, including her husband. But that didn't stop her potential rivals -- John Edwards, Joe Biden, Evan Bayh, Wesley Clark -- from dropping by, nor did it stop Korge, a guy who rightly prides himself on knowing just about everybody in Democratic politics, from taking the meetings. ''In the last six months, I've pretty much seen or talked with all of them, or they've tried to meet with me,'' Korge told me during a conversation in late January.
 A few weeks before we spoke, Korge had lunch at the Capital Grille in Miami with Mark Warner, who was then in his final weeks as Virginia's governor. Though little known nationally, Warner has emerged in recent months as the bright new star in the constellation of would-be candidates, a source of curiosity among Democrats searching for a charismatic outsider to lead the party. Pundits credit Warner's popularity in Republican-dominated Virginia -- his 80 percent approval rating when he left office made him one of the most adored governors in the state's history -- with enabling his Democratic lieutenant governor, Tim Kaine, to win the election to succeed him last November. Suddenly, Warner is being mentioned near the top of every list of candidates vying for the nomination in 2008.
 Over lunch with Korge and his real-estate partner, Warner made what has become, more or less, his standard pitch. Much as he likes John Kerry and worked hard for him in Virginia, Warner said, the Democratic Party had once again, in 2004, nominated a candidate who could not appeal on a cultural level to white, small-town voters in wide swaths of the country. Warner argued that he was more likely than any of the other potential Democratic candidates to break that cycle. The candidate he was really talking about, of course, was Clinton. It wasn't that she wouldn't do a great job in the White House, necessarily; what Warner was saying, without actually saying it, was that she couldn't get there. Democrats, he liked to say, could not afford to keep trotting out nominees who could expect to win only 16 blue states and then hope, just maybe, for the ''triple bank shot'' that might deliver Ohio or Florida. They needed a candidate who could compete everywhere.
 Korge had already heard some version of the same case from several of Warner's rivals. ''They can't help themselves,'' he told me. ''What you hear is two things: one, why Hillary can't win, and two, why they're going to be the other candidate who emerges in the showdown with Hillary.'' Korge told Warner the same thing he told the other suitors, including John Kerry: he was loyal to Hillary and intended to stay that way. That was fine, Warner said, but would Korge be willing to introduce him to friends who weren't yet decided? Korge deflected the request. To him, helping Warner raise money would have been ''counterproductive.''
 You might think this would have deflated Warner. It didn't. He knows that many of the money guys he goes to see at this early stage are going to pledge their allegiance to Clinton. But the path of a campaign is long and twisting, and there may come a time when Korge needs a fallback candidate. More to the point, aside from being a fund-raiser, Korge is a validator, the kind of guy to whom others in business and politics will listen. There are perhaps 20,000 activists and contributors whose choices influence the Democratic nominating process, and Korge talks with more than a few of them; his casual appraisals mean something. 
 From this vantage point, Warner's meeting with Korge was an unqualified success. ''In my opinion, he's the one to watch as an outsider in this race,'' Korge told me. ''He seems presidential. He's a big guy.'' (By this he meant, literally, that Warner is well over six feet tall, with a well-coiffed head that requires extra-large baseball caps.) ''I think he has a presence. He's very confident. He speaks very well, but he also can speak plainly to people.'' 
 There are, as yet, no announced candidates for the 2008 Democratic nomination, and even those who expect to run probably won't make their final decisions before the end of the year. But the process is playing out earlier and more visibly than ever, in part because candidates like Warner are scrambling to make sure this nominating season isn't over before it begins. Usually when there isn't an incumbent Democratic president or a vice president with title to the nomination, the presidential field would feature a blended ensemble of candidates, some better known than others but each singing the part of some distinct constituency. At this time in 2002, for instance, the prospective Democrats included the candidate of the foreign-policy establishment (John Kerry); the candidate favored by many Clinton New Democrat types (John Edwards); the anti-Washington candidate (Howard Dean); the Big Labor candidate (Dick Gephardt); and the African-American protest candidate (Al Sharpton). Races like this winnow slowly. On the eve of the Iowa caucus in 2004, with the exception of Sharpton, each of these candidates -- and, additionally, Wesley Clark -- were still very much in contention for the party's nomination.
 The Democratic field now emerging, on the other hand, is looking a lot like Gladys Knight and the Pips -- and you can guess who gets to be Gladys. The party's insiders, expecting Clinton to be a virtually unstoppable force, seem to be falling in line behind her, which means there will be only so much additional money and organization left over for those who would challenge her. But more than anything, Democrats will tell you that they are desperate to win next time around, and a lot of pragmatic activists and voters worry that Clinton is simply too divisive a candidate to take back the White House. (In a Gallup poll in January, 51 percent of respondents said they would definitely not vote for her.) These Democrats are actively shopping for a candidate who can derail Clinton before the party, as they see it, dooms itself to yet another near miss. And so the conventional thinking holds that there may only be room for two serious candidates by the time the primaries roll around: Hillary and the anti-Hillary. What Mark Warner needs to do now, just as his rivals do, is to begin making the case, as subtly as possible and before most of the country has even started to think about 2008, that the senator from New York is the wrong candidate for the party -- and that he's the only guy who can stop her.
 If Hillary Clinton does decide to run for president, no matter who ultimately runs against her for the party's nomination, she will begin with the kind of institutional advantages that have been reserved, in the past, for vice presidents like Walter Mondale and Al Gore. It starts with money. At the end of last year, according to the Hotline, the venerable Washington online digest, Clinton had more than $17 million in the bank for her re-election campaign in New York -- and no serious opponent to spend it against. By contrast, Warner, capping what was widely considered a surprisingly sound fund-raising season, had amassed a little under $2.5 million for his political action committee, Forward Together. But that's not the whole story. Thanks to the inscrutable wonder of campaign finance laws, Clinton can roll every penny that she doesn't spend on her Senate campaign into a presidential account, which is why she could well start a bid for the White House with as much as $75 million, on course to obliterate the party's previous fund-raising records. No matter how much a governor like Warner raises in his political action committee, on the other hand, the rules say that he can't spend any of it on a presidential run; it can go only for general political activity, mostly backing other candidates. This means that should Warner decide to run, he'll have to start again from zero, while Clinton is backing up 18-wheelers to the bank.
 What's more, Clinton will arrive in early primary states with a built-in base of voters. She has been campaigning in these states, off and on, for 15 years and knows every stop along the way; she can count on the endorsements of most of the local elected officials and interest groups, all of whom come with their own e-mail lists and organizers. By contrast, Warner, during a recent trip to the foreign territory of New Hampshire, made the standard politician's pilgrimage to the Stonyfield Farm yogurt plant near Manchester and then wondered aloud just how many candidates in years past had also taken the tour. (Answer: So many that at the height of primary-season mania, they would seem to outnumber those Americans who actually eat Stonyfield Farm yogurt.)
 So formidable are the obstacles to challenging Clinton that even a lot of party operatives who don't think she's the best candidate are likely to work for her, just to be on the winning side. And this is precisely the strategy that her team has thus far cultivated. Just as Karl Rove set out to make George W. Bush's nomination seem inevitable in 2000, successfully freezing much of the money and talent that might have flowed to his competitors, so, too, do Clinton's advisers seem to be sending out signals that resistance is not only futile but also dangerous. When I asked Warner's aides for permission to attend some of his policy briefings in January, word came back that the outside experts who had been asked to make presentations, some of whom worked in the Clinton administration, balked because they were afraid the Clinton camp would find out that they were granting courtesies to another candidate. No one wants to cross the party's presumed nominee.
 Given all that, it's a wonder that so many Democrats are thinking seriously of offering themselves up as an alternative. There are various interpretations among the party's cognoscenti as to which hopefuls belong in the coveted ''top tier'' of potential candidates. As of the end of 2005, Kerry had more than $15 million in contributions stashed away for another bid, as well as a handful of major fund-raisers who remain loyal to him, but the general assessment among Democratic insiders is that his Swift boat has already sailed. Edwards and Clark, meanwhile, won three primary states between them last time around; both have the potential to be serious players in 2008, but neither will appeal to those Democrats who say that the party needs an unfamiliar face.
 What remains is a genuinely impressive field of hopefuls whose perceived flaws, in any other year and against any other opponent, might not prompt such dismissiveness from the party elite. Conventional wisdom holds that Joe Biden, who last ran in 1988, can't raise enough cash, and that the populist Russ Feingold has currency mostly as a protest candidate. Evan Bayh, a centrist senator and former governor, comes across as thoughtful and steady on foreign policy (he also looks the part, bearing a remarkable resemblance to the actor Kevin Kline), but the early word is that he's a bit too stilted and senatorial, prompting insiders to discourse, yet again, on how few sitting senators are ever elected president. (For the record, there have been only two, and both of them died in office, presumably a coincidence.) Among the governors, Tom Vilsack of Iowa gets high praise from big-time donors, but the next thing they tell you is that he can't compete financially. As a former United Nations ambassador and energy secretary, Bill Richardson, now New Mexico's governor, has as wide a range of experience as anyone in the race, but his aggressively extroverted personality makes party insiders uncomfortable -- and that was true even before his female lieutenant governor, a Democrat, publicly complained in December that he wouldn't stop poking her at official functions.
 That leaves Warner, onto whom a lot of anti-Hillary Democrats have suddenly projected their hopes. The negative rap on Warner is a lack of relevant experience; he's a one-term governor (he would still be in office if Virginia allowed its governors to serve consecutive terms), and critics argue that a credible candidate needs to have foreign-policy experience to run in the new, terror-obsessed world. Nonetheless, Warner, on paper, fits the party's most conventional and tested idea of what constitutes an electable candidate. Though he doesn't speak with a drawl (he grew up in Indiana, Illinois and Connecticut and moved to Virginia when he was 32), Warner was the popular centrist governor of a Southern state -- just like the last two Democrats to actually win the White House, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton. He's also really, sickeningly wealthy. As a co-founder of the cellular-telephone company that ultimately became Nextel, Warner has access to a personal fortune that is said to approach $200 million, and he has already demonstrated, during an unsuccessful run for the Senate and then in his gubernatorial campaign, that he's willing to use it.
 Because of his previous life as a businessman, Warner is also expected to tap a network of donors in the high-tech and venture-capital fields who are outside the orbit of traditional Democratic fund-raising, just as Bill Bradley did when he ran against Al Gore in 2000. To party insiders in search of a Clinton alternative, all of this is crucial; it means that even if she manages to suck up all the money flowing from the party's usual contributors, Warner might still have a lifeline that other candidates don't. ''The only one I think can get some traction is Mark Warner, because he can write his own checks,'' says Susan Estrich, who ran Michael Dukakis's 1988 campaign. Estrich recently wrote a book called ''The Case for Hillary Clinton'' (as if Clinton needed any help), but, she told me, if someone's going to stop Clinton, ''Warner's the only one who really makes sense.''
 That Warner has suddenly become a commodity, even among those who know little about him, was obvious at the Florida Democratic Party convention in December, where he swept into a party for the delegates, led by an escort of state police. ''That's Governor Warner!'' one woman said excitedly. ''He's so good-looking!'' 
 ''He's got a huge head!'' her companion observed, craning her neck to see over the crowd as Warner signed autographs. ''He sort of looks like Schwarzenegger.'' 
 ''I do think he has the best chance,'' I heard another delegate say knowingly. Warner's speech to the convention the next morning drew a more-than-perfunctory standing ovation.
 When a lot of National Democrats first took note of Warner in 2001, they didn't love what they saw. Running for governor in a state where Democrats were in sharp retreat, Warner courted the National Rifle Association and let it be known he'd support parental notification for minors seeking abortions. His outreach to Nascar devotees and bluegrass fans in southern Virginia struck Democrats in the urban North -- as well as many of those across the Potomac River in Washington -- as unseemly pandering.
 Warner was determined, however, not to let Republicans portray him as a cultural elitist. He never made any pretense of being an avid hunter or Nascar fan himself; he's a Presbyterian who wears pressed khakis, and he spends weekends at his private farm and vineyard outside historic Fredericksburg. But Warner, who is 51, grew up mostly in small towns, in a middle-class family, and in the 2001 campaign he made it clear that he genuinely appreciated the cultural pastimes of his rural voters. The respect he showed was reciprocated. Five years ago, I watched voters at the annual fiddlers' festival in Galax, Va., clap Warner on the back and dance along to his campaign song, an impossibly catchy bluegrass tune, while his Republican opponent, the state's former attorney general, milled about uncomfortably. Even after the terrorist attacks that September, which froze the campaign and rallied the country around the president and the Republican Party, Warner won by five points, scoring more support in rural Virginia than any Democrat in recent memory.
 Considering that he has served only four years in government, Warner has plenty to brag about. Relentlessly wooing his Republican Legislature at a time when the two parties in Washington were growing ever more belligerent toward each other, Warner managed to erase a potentially catastrophic $6 billion budget shortfall by working out a bipartisan deal to raise some taxes (on sales and cigarettes) and lower others (on income and food). He passed the plan, in part, by selling it in frequent meetings with voters across the state, earning him a reputation as a nonpartisan deal maker who was willing to deliver unpopular news. 
 Warner's constant theme, which a lot of Washington politicians talk about but few seem to actually understand, was the need to modernize for a global economy. The days when you could walk down the street and get a job at the mill were over, Warner would say, and new jobs -- the state gained more than 150,000 of them on his watch -- would require new skills and infrastructure. So Warner, working with Nascar, pushed through an accelerated program that enabled 35,000 more Virginians to get high-school equivalency degrees, and he introduced a program to deliver broadband capacity to 20 Southern counties. ''In the 1800's, if the railroad didn't come through your small town, the town shriveled up and went away,'' he told me once, explaining his rural program. ''And if the broadband Internet doesn't come through your town in the next few years, the same thing will happen.''
 If he ultimately decides to run for president, Warner will try to build a national campaign around this same technology-driven approach. When I asked Warner to name the issues that would be most important to him, the four domestic issues he ticked off, before he got to terrorism and national security, were fairly standard for a Democratic candidate in the era after Bill Clinton: slashing the federal deficit, improving schools, working with business to reform the health-care system and devising a new energy strategy. What makes Warner, the former entrepreneur, sound more credible than your average Democrat is that he comes at these issues primarily from an economic, rather than a social, standpoint. On health care, for instance, most Washington Democrats will, as a matter of both habit and perspective, talk about the moral imperative of covering workers and the uninsured -- and only then might they add, as an afterthought, that the current morass is an impediment to business too. Warner, on the other hand, begins with the idea that if American businesses can't keep up with spiraling health-care costs, the nation will lose the competition with India and China for jobs. The same principle applies with education and the deficit. His fixation on the global economy brings a coherent framework to issues that otherwise seem disparate and abstract.
 He doesn't yet have the specific proposals he will need to make this vision feel as concrete in a national campaign as it did when he was governor. Instead, everywhere he goes, he emphasizes that Virginia was named the ''best-managed state in the country.'' (In fact, Governing magazine, the trade publication for state and local officials, gave both Virginia and Utah the overall highest grades of any state in its 2005 study.) ''Results matter,'' Warner often says, contrasting his record with what he characterizes as the Bush administration's incompetence. At times, it sounds a bit too much like Michael Dukakis's ''competence'' argument -- the kind of technocratic appeal for hands-on government that has never inspired voters to choose a candidate as president. (Dukakis had his ''Massachusetts miracle''; Warner talks up ''the Virginia story.'') It is possible that Warner and his top advisers, most of whom are loyalists from his days as a businessman or as governor, have overestimated the political value, even after Hurricane Katrina, of bland efficiency.
 This emphasis on reforming government, however, is part of a larger argument about electability that Warner is just now beginning to sharpen. Essentially, if he and Clinton ultimately run, he will campaign against her in much the same way that her husband campaigned against the Democratic establishment as a governor in 1992. Like Warner, Bill Clinton leapt into a race that was supposed to be dominated by a bigger name from the liberal Northeast. (That Mario Cuomo decided not to run was one of several lucky breaks that helped propel Clinton from anonymity to the White House.) Clinton's argument then was that the party had become too ideologically rigid, and that its adherence to dogmatic social policy was driving away middle-class voters who might otherwise respond to a new kind of economic agenda. It's easy to forget now, given how thoroughly the party has internalized Clinton's language on so many issues, that talking in the early 90's about the tragedy of abortion or the rethinking of welfare policy constituted a kind of apostasy to much of the party elite.
 Now it is Hillary Clinton of New York who represents that coastal elite, and while she employs much of the same rhetoric her husband used, Warner argues that, nationally, the cultural perception of the party and its most visible leaders -- Clinton, Kerry, Howard Dean, Nancy Pelosi -- isn't much different from what it was back then. Results do matter to voters, Warner says, but only if you make it impossible for Republicans to paint your nominee as another protester-turned-windsurfer who looks down on people who go to a megachurch and like to watch the stock cars race. ''You can't keep sending people out there who check every box of the Democratic orthodoxy, or that at least check every box of the East Coast-West Coast Democratic orthodoxy,'' Warner told me during a conversation in his Capitol office in his final days as governor. Only a Democrat who had a proven ability to transcend cultural issues, he said, could broaden the party's base.
 ''You have to make that argument,'' Warner went on to say. ''You have to make it not just as a Democrat, but as an American. Let's assume the Democrats continue to run on a 16-state strategy and hope for a 17th state. Can you really govern? Can you govern if you cede two-thirds of the states?''
 It was hard not to notice, as we had this conversation, that Warner never mentioned Hillary Clinton. It is a perilous mission that Warner and other Democratic hopefuls undertake as they try to cast doubts about her electability without appearing to attack one of the party's iconic figures. And it's risky not just because she is a Clinton, beloved by most of the party's important interest groups, but also because she is a woman; a lot of voters may wonder if a woman can really be elected president, but they would most likely turn on any male candidate who was crass enough to imply as much. 
 In his conversations with contributors and activists, Warner meanders up to the boundary of personal criticism, but he is careful not to step across it. His manner suggests that he himself would happily call Clinton ''Madame President,'' but he just doesn't think the voters he knows in Southside Virginia can ever be made to feel the same way. In contrast, Warner argues that there is a universe of moderate Republicans out there who would be comfortable in crossing party lines to vote for him.
 Is Clinton, I asked Warner, an ''electable'' Democrat? ''I think she's a very strong senator,'' he said slowly, pausing several times. ''And I think what she showed in New York was an ability to really make her case among people who might not initially be supportive.''
 We stared at each other. ''O.K.,'' I said. ''But is she electable?''
 ''If she decides to run, she'll be the front-runner,'' Warner replied carefully.
 Even should it prove to be an achievable goal, persuading Democrats that Clinton can't win gets you only so far. Warner also has to persuade them, ultimately, that he's the best choice to oppose her. And so he must now travel the country more or less constantly, borrowing private planes from wealthy friends when possible, asking for meetings with contributors, activists and elected officials whose money and influence will matter in the later stages of the campaign. For all the perennial conjecture about which hopefuls seem ''presidential'' and which don't, the truth is that presidential candidates who lack national stature always start out looking somehow smaller than they should, hustling unrecognized from one conference room to the next, like interstate speed daters in search of a thousand soul mates.
 ''I intend to be out campaigning for folks around the country who share some of the views I've shared tonight and the approach we've taken in Virginia,'' Warner told a crowd of about 60 at a fund-raiser given by a fellow entrepreneur in Chapel Hill, N.C., in January. ''If this makes some sense to you, I'm going to be in California next week, and I'm in New Hampshire Friday. I'm in Texas the week after next. If you like what you hear, maybe you can call your friend there and say: 'Hey, I heard this guy Warner the other night. You should go check him out.''' This was great -- maybe we could go out again sometime. Or if you've got some friends you're looking to set up.. . .
 Warner isn't what you'd call a natural candidate. He speaks haltingly and sometimes in circles. He likes personal contact, but he can be physically awkward with voters, stiffly patting their arms or crookedly grasping their shoulders in what looks like an impersonation of the Vulcan Death Grip. He compensates, however, with eagerness and perseverance; like all of the best politicians, Warner loves to be liked. It's easy to imagine Warner, the president of his high-school class, infiltrating the various social circles at Harvard Law School through the sheer discipline of remembering every name and hometown he came across. After graduating, rather than join some huge firm, Warner worked as a fund-raiser for the Democratic National Committee -- in a job that enabled him, even then, to collect new and wealthy friends who had an interest in politics.
 As governor, he was known for inviting his opponents over to the mansion for drinks and then inviting them back again, until he'd earned their trust. The less inclined you are to like Warner, the more inclined he is to court you, which probably explains his counterintuitive bond with Virginia's rural, less-educated voters.
 Among the wealthy contributors and liberal activists who have met Warner recently, the most common observation is that he genuinely listens. ''I think he will, over time, find a very strong following here,'' Mark Gorenberg, a San Francisco venture capitalist, told me. An important player in the politics of Silicon Valley and the Bay Area, which has supplanted Los Angeles as the epicenter of Democratic money on the West Coast, Gorenberg was Kerry's top bundler in the last election, and he told me he remains part of Kerry's national ''leadership team.'' But Warner clearly impressed him: ''He's a very interesting candidate, especially to the tech industry. He's garnered a lot of interest out here. What he's done differently is that he hasn't raised money. He's the only one who comes out here mostly to meet people.''
 For the past several months, the 2008 hopefuls have been attending a circuit of private dinners in Washington, as well as a series of meetings in the headquarters of powerful interest groups. In a party long dominated by single-issue constituencies, these meetings can take on the feel of a job interview with an especially inquisitive employer. ''First, I want to know why they're running,'' says Linda Lipsen, the top lobbyist for the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, describing the conversations she's had with most of the 2008 hopefuls in recent months. ''Not the pat answer that they've rehearsed, but why they really want to do this. Why they want to go through this ordeal. Who they really are. Where they take their vacations. What they do in their spare time. What books do they read?'' Of Warner, Lipsen says: ''He was very comfortable in his skin, very willing to learn. He doesn't make you feel uncomfortable.''
 The presidential cycle is just beginning, however, and the Oprahesque questions won't last very long. The problem for Warner is that, a year from now, liberals who like the idea of a Southern governor on the ticket will nonetheless want to know where he stands on the party's perennial issues. Then Warner will have to explain to his party's power brokers why he believes that Medicaid should be retooled and why he embraces free trade and why he believes that nuclear power should be explored. Bill Clinton managed to secure the nomination in 1992 even after confronting Big Labor and African-American activists, but he didn't face a serious challenge from the party's more liberal wing -- and he didn't have to run against his wife.
 Warner may have glimpsed a piece of his future when he attended a dinner of wealthy Democrats last summer at the Bay Area home of Mark Buell and his wife, Susie Tompkins Buell, well-connected contributors and close friends of the Clintons. Warner made some introductory comments about ''the Virginia story,'' but the first several questions were not about taxes or schools or health care, but about gay marriage (which he's against), the death penalty (which he's for) and abortion (he's in favor of parental notification but vetoed a bill banning all late-term abortions). Warner thought his liberal guests would be interested in his policies to improve Virginia schools and raise the standard of living in rural areas; instead, it seemed to him, they thought that they understood poverty and race in an intellectual way that he, as a red-state governor, could not. Like a lot of politicians, Warner can be snappish when he feels he isn't being heard, and the dialogue quickly grew testy.
 At the end of the evening, according to people who were there, as some of the guests walked Warner to his car, one woman vowed to educate him on abortion rights. That was all he could take. ''This is why America hates Democrats,'' a frustrated Warner blurted out before driving away. (Still piqued a month later, Warner, speaking to The Los Angeles Times, summarized the attitude of the assembled guests about their plans to save the country: ''You little Virginia Democrat, how can you understand the great opportunities we have?'')
 Warner seems unconcerned about the damage done by such comments. ''If somebody wants a purist, I'm not the guy,'' he told me. What struck Mark Buell about Warner that night, however, wasn't so much the substance of his answers as the time it took him to formulate them. To him, Warner seemed tentative and unpolished. ''You could see him thinking through the questions as he was up there,'' Buell recalled. ''If anybody's on a learning curve for national politics, it's going to be him.''
 This seems to be the concern arising about Warner as he introduces himself around the country. Normally, a governor like Warner, unschooled in foreign policy and military issues, would have at least until after the midterm elections coming up in November to study up and calibrate positions. It wasn't until 1999, for instance, that Karl Rove and Condoleezza Rice started running a virtual academy in Austin for Governor Bush, who had barely ever been out of the country. Warner, who is considerably worldlier but just as inexperienced in military matters, has started receiving dozens of briefings in his Alexandria office, just a few blocks from the stately house overlooking the Potomac where he lives with his wife and three daughters. 
 What's different for Warner is that he has, in just the last few months, become the subject of scrutiny unusual for this early in the race, as more Democratic insiders speculate that he could be the guy to take on Clinton. He can feel the change; suddenly, audiences really want to know what his positions are on the Iraq war and the Iranian nuclear program, areas in which he acknowledges that he still has much to learn. 
 In small meetings with donors or interest groups, Warner seems comfortable admitting that he doesn't yet know all the things he needs to know. Among larger crowds, however, or with the media, he sometimes seems to be improvising. This has been a particular problem on Iraq, an issue that arises, not surprisingly, everywhere he goes. Several times, I watched him string together a disconnected, banal series of observations -- the Sunnis need to be involved, the military should be seen as problem-solvers rather than as occupiers and so on -- while continually looking down and pausing, as if he were trying to recall a briefing paper. It was a sharp contrast to the confidence with which Warner discusses almost any domestic issue, and I had the sense that he felt compelled to demonstrate his proficiency in the specific details of Iraq policy rather than offer the more basic statements of principle that are sufficient for most candidates at this stage of an undeclared campaign.
 That Warner isn't ready for all the questions a presidential candidate must field was apparent during a somewhat calamitous interview in January with George Stephanopoulos on ABC's ''This Week.'' Warner seemed surprised and uncomfortable when the host tried to pin him down on questions that divided the country and his party. He refused to say whether he thought Samuel Alito should be confirmed for the Supreme Court or whether he thought the president had the authority to order domestic wiretaps without a court's permission. 
 When Stephanopoulos pressed him to say whether he supported the Iraq invasion in 2003, Warner replied that it was pointless for Democrats to continue that argument. Logically, this wasn't an unreasonable response -- the decision to go to war is now well past debating, and Warner never had access to classified intelligence -- but it sounded oblivious to political reality. Whether the war was justified remains an important question for a lot of liberal voters, especially since Clinton and most of her potential challengers in the Senate (Feingold being the only exception) voted for the 2002 war resolution. It's unlikely that Warner can simply avoid the question.
 Having been through the 1992 Clinton campaign, an incredulous 
 Stephanopoulos couldn't help asking, ''You think you can keep that position through the primaries?'' 
 ''Time will tell,'' was Warner's uncertain response.
 The exchange with Stephanopoulos on the war hints at another, more tactical question that Warner will have to confront. If you accept the premise, however theoretical, that the Democratic race two years from now will come down to Clinton and a single challenger, then the candidate who gains enough anti-Hillary momentum to meet her head-on will, by definition, have to run an insurgent campaign against the party's Washington establishment, in the same mold as Jimmy Carter in 1976 or Gary Hart in 1984. 
 To be a successful insurgent in 2008, a candidate probably needs a serious following online. The activists in the so-called Netroots, people who connect to politics primarily through MoveOn.org and the liberal blogs, will be even more populous and more motivated than in 2004, and while it's impossible to generalize, it seems that most of the Netroots are eager to find a candidate who isn't Hillary Clinton. Among the anti-Hillary contenders, Russ Feingold and Wesley Clark have the strongest constituencies online. But perhaps the most viable candidate who is making a strong bid to inherit Dean's activist base is John Edwards, who now directs an antipoverty center at the University of North Carolina. In the last year, Edwards's support among the Netroots appears to have surged as he has explored the world of blogging and podcasting, renounced his initial support for the Iraq war, campaigned for hotel workers in a union drive and railed against what he calls the ''phony'' culture of Washington. When I sat with him in a Chapel Hill cafe in January, Edwards, appearing more relaxed and confident than he did at any time during the 2004 campaign, told me that he now understood that specific policies weren't nearly as important in modern presidential politics as telegraphing a sense of conviction.
 ''Just being myself and standing up for what I believe, and not being coached and not being consulted, is what it's all about,'' Edwards told me. ''I would be totally comfortable with myself as a candidate now. I don't need to spend time with advisers.'' He reached for an example. ''What do I think about the killing in Darfur? We have to stop it. That's what I think.''
 The political argument most often and most forcefully proffered online has very little to do with ideology, per se, and everything to do with partisanship. Rather than arguing for any particular agenda, what MoveOn.org and the bloggers demand from Democratic politicians is unwavering opposition to what they see as a corrupt Republican majority and to the supposed capitulation of Washington Democrats. Clinton encounters ambivalence online because she is a fixture of official Washington, and because she continues to emphasize her cooperation with like-minded Republicans. The party's online activists don't want to hear about the compromises it takes to govern; they want someone who will derail the Republican agenda, even if he (or she) has to strap himself to the tracks with two fistfuls of dynamite to do it.
 All this would seem to pose a problem for Warner, who does not make for an especially convincing partisan. He is, at heart, a cooperative, compromising kind of guy -- which, he would argue, is how he managed to get so much done in Virginia. ''I think there are still people of goodwill in both parties,'' he told me at one point. When I asked Warner if the G.O.P. was a corrupt party, as Democratic activists insist it is, he visibly cringed. ''I don't think you can paint with that broad a brush, just as I don't think in the 90's you could paint the Congressional Democrats with that broad a brush,'' he replied.
 When I asked him to assess Bush as a president, Warner went out of his way to praise his handling of the terrorist attacks of 2001, though he said Bush had failed to use that opportunity to ask the American people to sacrifice. He called Bush ''the president of missed opportunities'' -- a valid criticism, perhaps, but not exactly the moral condemnation that Kerry, Dean and other Democrats heaped on Bush during the last campaign, and that a lot of liberal activists long to hear. When I made this point, he shook his head. ''That's not going to be me,'' he said. ''If I choose to go down this path, it's going to be more about what I'm for than what I'm against.'' 
 Similarly, Warner, an unapologetic pro-business Democrat, rejects the reflexive anti-corporatism that permeates much of the populist fervor online. Aides said Warner wants to set up a briefing with the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative policy center, to get its libertarian perspective on policy issues. ''If the move is truly back to old-line 70's populism, then I'm probably not the guy,'' Warner told me, in a variation on what was becoming a familiar theme.
 And yet, Warner, like most of his rivals, intends to make a play for Dean-style Democrats. One of Warner's first hires, even before he left office, was Jerome Armstrong, an architect of Dean's online strategy and the founder of the influential blog MyDD.com, which in 2003 and 2004 spawned many of the other well-trafficked liberal blogs. (Armstrong and Markos Moulitsas Zuniga, the founder of Dailykos.com, invented the term ''Netroots,'' and they have just published a book, ''Crashing the Gate,'' about the emerging power of online activism.) Armstrong's job is to design Warner's Web site -- it will include a miniaturized Warner strolling across your screen as he talks to you, like something out of Willy Wonka -- and to blog for the candidate. Just as important, Armstrong, like the fund-raisers Warner visits, is influential in his own milieu; his role is to give Warner street cred in the blogosphere.
 Over lunch a few months ago at Olives, the popular downtown restaurant for Washington consultants and lobbyists, Armstrong dismissed the idea that Warner was too centrist and bipartisan for the blogosphere. He reminded me that Warner started out as a Democratic fund-raiser and later served as chairman of Virginia's state party before he was governor, an unusual route to elective office that signaled a longstanding party loyalty. 
 ''Democrats have our backs against the wall with a Republican machine,'' Armstrong said. ''We want to know: are you going to stand with us? Or are you going to act like you're not a part of us?'' The Netroots activists would get their answer, he said, when they saw Warner out in critical states later this year, campaigning hard for Democratic candidates on the state and federal levels. ''Partisanship doesn't always have to deal with calling people names,'' Armstrong said. ''Partisanship can be working hard to elect Democrats and fighting for Democratic principles.''
 In fact, this may not be as wishful as it sounds. In an online poll on the Dailykos site a few weeks after Kaine won the Virginia governor's race last November, Warner, who had been near the bottom of the pack of potential candidates in previous iterations, shot up to third, behind only Clark and Feingold. Of course, the ''poll,'' which compiled the views of 11,000 volunteer respondents, had about as much scientific value as a Bush administration memo on global warming. But it did reflect an awareness that Warner had risked his personal prestige to help get Kaine elected, and that he had succeeded in reviving the Democratic Party in Virginia. For the moment, at least, whether he was soft on the enemy was immaterial; the point was that he knew how to win. To a lot of online activists -- and to Democrats everywhere -- that may yet be the thing that matters most.
 Democratic strategists have a kind of ''silver bullet'' theory of the 2008 race. The thinking goes that if Hillary Clinton is indeed running for president in the fall of 2007, then whoever emerges as the Hillary alternative will have just two shots at beating her, in either Iowa or New Hampshire. As Democrats learned in 2000, when Gore beat back Bradley in the first two contests, and again in 2004, when Kerry surged past Dean and Dick Gephardt in Iowa and never looked back, it is almost impossible to stop an establishment candidate if he or she rolls through the first few primaries. So the insurgent has to hope for an explosion of popular support in that first caucus -- or possibly, a week later, in New Hampshire -- that will send the front-runner reeling backward and puncture the notion that her nomination is preordained. If an insurgent can do that, then the resulting media frenzy might create enough momentum to propel him to victories in subsequent primaries, overwhelming the party apparatus.
 The problem with this theory, it should be said, is that the party's establishment has spent the last 35 years, more or less, making sure it won't be realized. The modern primary process was born in the period before the 1972 campaign, when antiwar activists seized control of the party's nominating rules from the bosses of the old urban machines and put in place a more participatory system, whereby voters would get to choose their candidate directly, rather than delegating the task to a bunch of aging men in a clubhouse. This was a good idea, except that, in just a few years' time, the 60's activists became insiders themselves, and they found, much to their dismay, that primary voters still tended to like outsiders -- even relatively conservative outsiders like Jimmy Carter. And so the story of the last two decades is one of insurgent candidates (Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson, Bill Bradley, Howard Dean) coming perilously close again and again to toppling the party's chosen nominees, while the party regulars respond, periodically, by tinkering with the rules -- collapsing the primary calendar, creating hundreds of ''superdelegates'' who can cast their convention votes however they like -- in order to tighten their hold on the process.
 The result of all these machinations is that an establishment candidate like Clinton can rely on a kind of built-in fire wall. Even if she loses in Iowa or New Hampshire, the process is front-loaded, as they say, so that the campaign immediately becomes a national contest, diffused into large states in every part of the country. This requires both huge sums of money and some amount of star power, as well as lots of surrogates -- that is, governors, senators and the like -- who will fan out across their states to do your campaigning for you. 
 In 2008, the party is likely to add contests in a few more racially diverse states before and after the New Hampshire primary. But this, too, would seem to benefit Clinton, since her husband can be expected to campaign hard for her. As Donna Brazile, the veteran organizer who ran Gore's campaign, says, in critical black districts, ''Bill Clinton is beloved, and to the extent that these voters have a chance to cast their votes early in the process, it will be very difficult to stop her nomination.'' Little wonder, then, that when I asked Joe Trippi, the highly-caffeinated Internet genius who orchestrated Dean's insurgency, how Warner or one of the other candidates would go about taking the nomination from Clinton, he actually laughed at me. ''It's not possible,'' he said. ''The way for Mark Warner? Leave the freakin' party.''
 This is why, with almost two years to go before the first votes are cast, some insiders who question Clinton's electability dream of finding yet another candidate who has the national profile and who could generate enough excitement among the base to match her. The question is, Who? ''This sounds absolutely strange coming from me, because I never in life thought I would utter these words again,'' Brazile says, ''but Al Gore.'' It's true that Gore has been a fiery critic of Bush in recent months, but former advisers who still talk to him say he seems genuinely uninterested. Meanwhile, Barack Obama's keynote address to the Florida Democratic Party convention in December was interrupted by delegates who stood up and shouted for him to run in 2008. Obama, a first-term senator, has ruled it out -- at least for now.
 Nonetheless, there is still reason to think that the barrier that has historically insulated insider candidates from outsider challenges may yet be breached. The best illustration of this is Dean, who came closer to upending the nominating process than any insurgent candidate since Hart. In gaining enough momentum to become, at one point, the presumed nominee, Dean highlighted two critical changes in American politics in recent years. The first is the proliferation of a cable-TV news media that can, virtually overnight, transform an unknown candidate into a coast-to-coast sensation, neutralizing the value of expensive ads and direct-mail campaigns. The second, and probably more transformative, is the advent of the Web as a fund-raising and organizing tool, which, under the right circumstances, can go a long way toward erasing a front-runner's advantage, especially if the insurgent manages to win one of the early primaries. ''The fire wall is more vulnerable now,'' Susan Estrich says. If Clinton should falter in Iowa or New Hampshire, ''whoever beats her won't have to put out buckets to collect cash. He'll have the Internet.''
 Because of these changes, the process of choosing a candidate is now more democratic, less predictable and harder for the party elite to control than it has been for 20 years. The question for a potential candidate like Mark Warner is just what kind of outsider he intends to be. The problem with Warner's theory of the race -- that he can run, like Carter and Clinton, as a centrist, electable Southern governor -- is that neither Carter nor Clinton had the misfortune of having to unseat a de facto nominee. They ran as outsiders pounding at the door of the party apparatus, but the weary party more or less invited them in. That won't happen in 2008. If Hillary Clinton does decide to run, the best Warner or any other rival can hope for is that this next election will be more like 1984, when Mondale, the insider, had to use every advantage at his disposal, including the superdelegates, to hold off Gary Hart's torrid attack on the interest groups that made up the Democratic establishment.
 It's fine for Warner to say now that he doesn't need purists or populists, that he wants to run a campaign that is about what he's for rather than what he's against. But such aspirations are a luxury generally afforded to front-runners and fools, and Warner is neither. The party's more successful insurgents have all had one thing in common, whether they came from the left or center: each ran hard against the party machine itself. However much Warner may want to avoid this kind of populist appeal, recent history suggests that if you want to emerge as the alternative candidate in 2008, you probably have to be willing to harness and exploit the anger of Democrats who feel disconnected from the Washington establishment and who resent the idea that powerful insiders seem to be choosing a nominee for them. You have to be ready, as an earlier generation of Democrats would have put it, to take on the Man -- even if the Man this time happens to be a woman.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The cover photograph in The Times Magazine on Sunday rendered colors incorrectly for the jacket, shirt and tie worn by Mark Warner, the former Virginia governor who is a possible candidate for the presidency. The jacket was charcoal, not maroon; the shirt was light blue, not pink; the tie was dark blue with stripes, not maroon. 
 The Times's policy rules out alteration of photographs that depict actual news scenes and, even in a contrived illustration, requires acknowledgment in a credit. In this case, the film that was used can cause colors to shift, and the processing altered them further; the change escaped notice because of a misunderstanding by the editors.
The cover photograph in The Times Magazine on Sunday rendered colors incorrectly for the jacket, shirt and tie worn by Mark Warner, the former Virginia governor who is a possible candidate for the presidency. The jacket was charcoal, not maroon; the shirt was light blue, not pink; the tie was dark blue with stripes, not maroon. 
 The Times's policy rules out alteration of photographs that depict actual news scenes and, even in a contrived illustration, requires acknowledgment in a credit. In this case, the film that was used can cause colors to shift, and the processing altered them further; the change escaped notice because of a misunderstanding by the editors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Exploring the Alternative: Warner in a Manchester hotel preparing a speech for a group of influential New Hampshire Democrats.
Candidacy Fermenting: Warner visits the Stonyfield Farm yogurt plant in New Hampshire, an obligatory stop for presidential hopefuls. (Photographs by David Burnett/Contact, for The New York Times)
Buttons (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times
 Design By Jody Churchfield.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); HISTORY (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Biographical Information

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); MARK WARNER (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%); AL GORE (58%); JOE BIDEN (56%) Mark (Gov) Warner; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



262 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 5157 words

HEADLINE: Party Like It's 1994

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer, is completing a book on the United Nations in the era of Kofi Annan.

 BODY:
In January, the Democratic leaders in Congress, along with several dozen members of the rank and file, gathered in the splendid foyer of the Library of Congress to let loose the opening barrage of a campaign to take control of Congress this November. With the possible exception of the Capitol, no setting in Washington suggests the majesty and antiquity of our form of government more than this domed, pillared, tiled and bemuraled space. As Democratic legislators filed onto a raised platform, a patriotic march -- were those. . .snare drums? -- swelled from the wings. To the rear hung two giant American flags and between them a banner, which read, ''Honest Leadership, Open Government.'' One by one, the leaders spoke of how they were saddened, but also outraged, at the Republican ''culture of corruption.'' ''We throw the gauntlet down today!'' cried Representative Louise Slaughter. At the conclusion of this press event, the legislators formed a tableau intended to evoke glorious moments in the history of the Republic as they stood together to sign a charter known as ''The Declaration of Honest Leadership and Open Government.'' 
Cringe if you wish -- but didn't this kind of stagecraft work wonders for Newt Gingrich and the Republicans when they assaulted the Democratic bastion in 1994? The Democrats have been trying to recover ever since from that lightning strike, which not only placed both houses in Republican hands but also ushered in the era of conservative supremacy in which we still live. It's true that the Democrats have been vowing to retake Congress every two years, while the Republican majority merely waxes and wanes. But 2006 feels different. What with Iraq, Hurricane Katrina, the Abramoff scandal and an unconvincing economy, President Bush's approval ratings are down in the mid-30's. Even Republican strategists and legislators concede the parallels to 1994 and worry that their party now feels as entrenched and unaccountable as the Democrats did then. 
 The Democrats are raising money, recruiting candidates and staging coups de theatre as they have not in years. They're projecting a brawny optimism. But it all seems a little bit brittle. Just because voters have tired of one party doesn't mean they're ready for the other. 
 Nineteen ninety-four was arguably the most consequential nonpresidential election of the 20th century. The Republicans shocked political professionals, including President Bill Clinton, by gaining 52 seats in the House, giving them a majority there for the first time in 40 years. (They picked up eight seats in the Senate to wrest control there as well.) What immense forces suddenly burst through the earth's crust that fall? Anger, for one. Pollsters found an electorate utterly disgusted with politics and politicians. In 1992, 80 percent of poll respondents said they believed that government favored the rich and powerful, while two-thirds agreed that ''quite a few'' national politicians were corrupt. Neither party had anything like a Jack Abramoff scandal; but the sense of drift, of futility, was very deep. We had won the cold war but somehow lost the peace; the economy was stagnant, and Europe and Japan were leaving us in their dust. An also-ran at home, we looked very much like a pitiful, helpless giant abroad. After our seductively easy triumph in the gulf war of 1991, we were humiliated by warlords and thugs in Somalia, Bosnia and Haiti.
 Of course, the Democrats had inherited the weak economy and the messes in Somalia and the Balkans from the first President Bush. Nor could they be blamed for the loathing that Bill Clinton turned out to inspire among so many voters. The Democrats happened to incarnate the political culture at a moment when the public turned against Washington.
 But it wasn't just coincidence. Charles Schumer, the New York senator, who was first elected to the House in 1980, explained to me: ''I didn't understand why Reagan won until I got to Washington. Crime was ripping apart my district. And who is writing the crime legislation? The A.C.L.U. They weren't just at the table; they were writing it.'' Ensconced in Congress but largely shut out of the White House, the Democrats had come to practice a kind of rote interest-group politics, an apportioning of budgetary goodies among constituents. Over the next eight years, President Reagan would offer an alternative vision of governing appealing enough to profoundly change the balance of American politics; but the Democrats, blithely confident that come what may they would control Congress -- that they, and not the Republicans, were America's majority party -- practiced resistance rather than renovation. As Schumer puts it, ''New Deal Democratic politics began to lose its thunder in 1980 but didn't really die out until 1992, 1993.'' 
 Something was dying in 1994, and something else was being born. Nineteen ninety-four was not simply 1980 redux. Reagan, of course, was the pivotal figure in the rise of conservatism -- at least of conservatism as a practicable governing philosophy rather than a polemical or philosophical position. Like Barry Goldwater before him, Reagan was a foreign-policy hawk, an idealist of the free market, a don't-tread-on-me rugged individualist. Neither man saw the state as an instrument for the regulation of private behavior; the war that preoccupied them was the cold war, not the culture war. And the culture itself was far less riven than it is today. Tom Davis, a Republican congressman from Virginia and a deep student of partisan trends, points out that in 1980, Marin County, that fountainhead of California hedonism and recreational spirituality, voted for Reagan -- the last presidential election in which the area went Republican.
 The new conservative politics that fully emerged with the 1994 election was ''cultural,'' as the Reagan revolution had not been. Intellectuals of the right were no longer prepared to accept a state that was neutral in regard to personal behavior. In a seminal 1994 essay, William Kristol, the former chief of staff for Vice President Dan Quayle, proposed ''a politics of liberty and a sociology of virtue'' -- a Reaganesque small-government conservatism that also used its leverage over nonstate institutions like the church to promote ''family values.'' And Newt Gingrich recognized the fault line that the Democrats had unknowingly exposed. ''Here you had a party that simultaneously took on social values in terms of things like gay rights, took on religion in the sense of being secular and took on guns in terms of being pro-gun control,'' as Gingrich puts it with his prosecutorial gift for the one-sided summation. Gingrich was convinced that mass prosperity, by freeing most voters from urgent worry about their future, had made ''values'' increasingly salient in political life. He never made for a very persuasive crusader on such matters, but he was quite clear about the central fact: ''At a cultural level,'' Gingrich said in a recent conversation, ''this is a right-wing country.''
 There's little evidence that voters suddenly moved to the right in 1994. The number of Americans who identify themselves as ''conservative'' (a third), ''moderate'' (two-fifths to a half) and ''liberal'' (one-fifth) has scarcely changed over the last 30 years. But 1994 was the culmination of a long-term demographic and partisan realignment whose net effect was to move almost all conservative voters into the Republican column. The Democrats had been losing votes in the South, above all from white men, since the late 50's, and with increasing speed after Lyndon Johnson placed the party squarely behind the civil rights movement. Reapportionment after the census of 1990 further reduced the number of seats Democrats could hold. In 1992, the Republicans picked up nine seats in the House, even though Clinton's presence at the head of the ticket limited the Democrats' losses in the South. In 1994, with the president's magic long gone, the G.O.P. gained 16 seats in the old Confederacy alone.
 And so 1994 represented the convergence of demographic change, partisan realignment, Democratic exhaustion, widespread resentment over economic drift and military weakness and an almost shocking contempt for the president himself. But the election was also about ideas. Newt Gingrich was Clinton's equal as a packager and entrepreneur of political ideas. From the moment he reached Washington in 1979, he campaigned to reposition the party as forward-looking and optimistic -- a ''liberal'' party in the old-fashioned sense -- as against a Democratic party so beholden to backward-looking special interests like unions, so fearful of the marketplace, that it shrank from the future. And when Republican leaders recoiled from his radical and confrontational posture, Gingrich took them on, challenging and beating the anointed candidate for minority whip in 1989 and thus effectively taking control of the party. And then he turned his guns on the Democrats.
 Gingrich obviously had very favorable battlefield terrain in 1994. But he was also a ruthless disciplinarian. Candidates were drilled in the party message; in Congress, and in public, Gingrich and his lieutenants castigated Clinton and the Democrats in savage terms not heard in Washington in many decades. 
 Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota and one of Gingrich's chief lieutenants, is convinced to this day that ''revulsion with Clinton'' carried the Republicans to victory in 1994. But this was never Gingrich's view. He had long envisioned a catalyzing event on the steps of the Capitol in which the party would lay out its affirmative vision of governing. This was, of course, the Contract With America. Gingrich says he believes that the contract swung the election. First, he has said, it gave otherwise bewildered candidates a message to numbingly repeat on the campaign trail: ''I am for a balanced budget; I am for a tax cut; I am for a stronger military,'' etc. Second, the contract stoked the increase in Republican turnout. ''Our challenge was to convince the Perot voters to come out and vote,'' Gingrich said. ''The Perot voters were us, but they were so mad about politics that if we hadn't had the contract, we would not have won control.'' And by vowing to push the contract's provisions through the House in the first 100 days of the next term, the G.O.P. seemed to be offering a new politics of accountability. As Douglas Sosnik, a Democratic consultant and former Clinton aide, puts it, ''The contract gave a symbolic and substantive vehicle for the Republicans to make this a change-versus-status-quo election.''
 The Contract With America was a minutely poll-tested, focus-grouped declaration whose particulars were often pitched at a level of generality so high as to be effectively meaningless. And yet it's a mistake to dismiss its substance. By calling for a balanced-budget amendment, harsh restrictions on welfare, capital-gains-tax cuts and Congressional term limits -- and by packaging them in the language of ''personal responsibility'' and ''national-security restoration'' -- the Republicans were staking a claim to a particular piece of ideological territory and were proclaiming that the differences between them and the Democrats were philosophical and not merely sectarian. In the language of the Contract With America, Gingrich had brilliantly synthesized, edited and dumbed-down the Republicans' internal policy debate of the previous 30 years. The fact that few voters knew what was in the contract was secondary to the feeling it established of momentous choice. 
 The ways in which the Democrats have internalized the lessons of 1994 have a great deal to do with how they are approaching what they hope will be the equally momentous election of 2006. Perhaps the easiest concession to make about the Clinton-era fiasco is that the Republicans were much tougher and more ruthless than were the peace-loving and complacent Democrats. When I asked George Miller, a California Democrat who has served in the House for more than 30 years, how he understood 1994, he said: ''We got attacked, and the leaders didn't respond. We got punched in the nose every day.'' The Democrats, accordingly, have now fitted themselves out with brass knuckles. Last year, the Senate minority leader, Harry Reid, established the Senate Democratic Communications Center, a k a the War Room,which issues unceasing bulletins on the Republicans' ''culture of corruption.'' Senator Reid, a plainspoken Nevadan, is no mean pugilist himself. He kicked off the solemn dedication to ''Honest Leadership and Open Government'' by recalling that back in Nevada he had taken on organized crime. ''These bad people and bad ideas,'' he went on, in a transition only a politician could love, ''have infiltrated our government.'' Worse, they now controlled the Congress and the presidency, and were backed by ''seven members of the Supreme Court.'' It sounded like a job for Batman, not the Democrats.
 Another relatively easy-to-assimilate lesson of '94 is discipline. Republicans of all persuasions voted together to deny Clinton and the Democrats any significant legislative accomplishments. The subordination of personal preference to party message is contrary to the Democratic religion. But Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader in the House, has successfully orchestrated a series of party-line votes that have dealt President Bush several stinging defeats, most notably on his attempt to partly privatize Social Security. One of the more encouraging signs for the Democrats is that their caucus is cohering while the Republicans, watching nervously as chunks of the Bush edifice crash to the ground, are beginning to go their separate ways.
 The new spirit of coordination goes well beyond vote tallies. Almost every day, top Congressional aides, pollsters, consultants and shop stewards of the liberal idea factories gather around a conference table in Senator Reid's office or converse by conference call. The party's War Room is fairly littered with bullet points. Here, on a placard, is a quote from Napoleon -- one of Newt Gingrich's models -- to the effect that ''a well-reasoned and extremely circumspect defensive'' must precede the ''audacious attack.'' Another placard features the ever-shifting list of ''frames'' that the group hammers together and sends over to the pollster Stan Greenberg for focus-group testing. Underneath the meta-frame ''Together, America Can Do Better,'' six priorities are listed: ''Real Security: Protecting America, Leading the World; Energy Independence 2020; Economic Growth and Educational Excellence'' and so on. 
 It is considered poor taste to refer to this set of packaged goods as a contract with anyone or anything. Democrats don't give their candidates marching orders. They give them frames. Newt Gingrich has already dubbed the new agenda ''the Contract With San Francisco and Vermont,'' a snickering reference to the political bases of Nancy Pelosi and Howard Dean, head of the Democratic National Committee. It's an excellent line, but today's Democrats don't give Republicans the kind of juicy, bicoastal targets they used to. They have become the party of fiscal responsibility and the party of homeland security. Even Pelosi, a classic liberal, has learned to talk centrist. When I visited her, she gave me a copy of her Innovation Agenda, which bristles with Kennedyesque rhetoric about keeping America No. 1. The Democrats have achieved unity by moving in the opposite direction from the Republicans in the 90's -- i.e., to the center. 
 Or have they? The Democrats have a problem with what in a different industry would be called brand identity. The public has generally liked Democratic products ever since Bill Clinton overturned party orthodoxy on crime, welfare, deficits and other domestic issues. In a report based on a poll taken last fall, Stan Greenberg and James Carville, the Democratic Uberconsultant, concluded that ''an overall battle of message and priorities puts the Democrats ahead of the Republicans by 15 points.'' That's the Democrats' good news. The bad news is that people vote Republican anyway. In a more recent report, Greenberg and Carville concluded that even as President Bush and Congressional Republicans have taken a terrible battering, ''the overall image of the Democrats has not improved.'' The party has no advantage on ''shares your values,'' an attribute strongly connected to voting patterns. 
 The word ''values'' has, in fact, become the all-purpose explanatory device to account for the frustrating discrepancy between voters' feelings about the Democrats' substantive views and about the party itself. White working-class churchgoing voters, whose economic interests would seem to make them Democrats, instead vote Republican because they do not believe that the Democrats ''share their values.'' The party is barely competitive with white middle-class voters. And here, again, the ghost of 1994 arises, for ever since Newt Gingrich and the new generation of conservatives levered open the values divide, the Democrats have found themselves on the wrong side. And this problem has provoked endless debate inside the party. What kind of values do voters think Democrats lack? How do you get those voters back? 
 In their recent polemic, ''Take It Back,'' Carville and Paul Begala complain that too many Democrats stubbornly refuse to speak the language of faith. ''Democrats,'' they write, ''need to hit voters where they live -- or, rather, where they pray.'' The problem with this straightforward advice is that many Democrats don't pray, and even the more religious among them tend to inhabit a world in which moral and political principles are understood to have secular foundations. This is, in fact, one useful definition of a ''blue state,'' or state of mind. And so the main thrust of the Democratic response to the values problem lies elsewhere, in the contrast between ''our values'' and ''their values.'' In a survey conducted last fall for the D.N.C., the pollster Cornell Belcher concluded that ''the values debate is shifting.'' The black magic by which the Republicans divided the country into red and blue was wearing off as the public became disillusioned and weary of divisive politics. ''Voters are hungry for the ideals and values of community to be placed at the center of the national discourse,'' Belcher concluded. What's more, ''voters readily accept messages about poverty, health care, education, Social Security and budget deficits when they are framed as moral issues.'' The frame needn't be religious so long as it is ''values centered.''
 It is, of course, a huge relief to hear that you needn't change your song but only the way you sing it. The values ''reframing'' has become a central element of an emerging Democratic dogma, and no one has seized on it as eagerly as Howard Dean, self-proclaimed avatar of ''the Democratic wing of the Democratic party.'' When I visited Dean in his office at the D.N.C., he explained, in his famously expostulatory style, why his party had been losing white working-class voters. They know Bush is hurting them, Dean said. ''But we don't empathize or understand what it's like to raise a moral child in an ambiguous world, and these people do not do well with ambiguity.'' It occurred to me that Bill Clinton might not have used this last expression as a means of demonstrating empathy. ''The truth is that Democratic values are much more in step with American values than Republican values are,'' Dean went on. But the Republicans ''are the best propagandists since Vladimir Lenin,'' while the Democrats ''quake in our boots before the onset of a negative populist approach.'' I wondered if Dean had skipped over Belcher's passage about voters' weariness with divisive politics. ''The way to beat that is to stand up for yourself,'' he continued. ''People will vote for you if you're willing to stand up for yourself. And we haven't. We've let pollsters and consultants tell us what to believe.'' 
 When Dean looks at 1994, the willingness to ''stand up for yourself'' is precisely what he sees: ''Gingrich takes a huge risk, polarizes everybody, makes a clear distinction between Republicans and Democrats and -- lo and behold! -- the American people decide they want a real change, and get one.'' For Dean, as for Carville and Begala and many others, the real lesson of 1994 and the years following is not that the Democrats lost touch with either the beliefs or the values of the majority of the American people, but that they lost touch with their own hearts. Dean told me that voters are so hungry for ''authenticity'' that they will vote for someone who states his case fearlessly even if they disagree. I did not bother to point out that his own career would seem to disprove this proposition.
 A politics of forthright conviction is the Democrats' not-so-circumspect ''defensive''; from this position, they plan to mount an audacious attack on the Republican ''culture of corruption.'' Here, in the view of Dean and many other Democrats, is the ultimate symmetry with 1994: the Republicans and their president have surrendered the trust of the American people, just as the Democrats and Clinton were seen to have done. Add to this equation an affirmative and popular agenda, and you have the change-versus-status-quo election of your dreams. 
 Right now, the Republican status quo feels at least as shaky as the Democratic one did 12 years ago. Most Americans now say that the war in Iraq was a mistake, and less than half approve of President Bush's handling of terrorism -- his ace in the hole, according to most Republican strategists. And the president's unpopularity is dragging down his party's prospects. More voters would like to see the Democrats in control of Congress than the Republicans. Polls show that the Democrats are winning back the independents they lost in 1994, with leads currently as large as a staggering 20 points. Mainline Protestants, otherwise known as country-club Republicans, are edging away from the G.O.P. as it becomes the party of intelligent design and the ban on stem-cell research. 
 The one glaring Democratic deficit is party leadership. Neither Pelosi nor Reid has the ability to move the American people, or to fire the troops with Agincourt oratory. The closest thing to a Democratic Gingrich is Rahm Emanuel, the former Clinton Wunderkind who now represents a working-class district in Chicago and runs the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Emanuel is the Democratic leader Republicans most admire, the kind of inspired maniac one encounters almost only in politics. We met one night at a restaurant near the Capitol for what was supposed to be dinner, save that Emanuel, slight to the point of asceticism, barely touched his food or his beer, instead talking at a furious velocity while he scribbled diagrams on the tablecloth and checked his phone, his BlackBerry and his watch. 
 Emanuel said that he did not buy the argument that the Democrats could ride ''the culture of corruption'' to victory. ''The party has a stench of corruption,'' he said, ''but I don't think that's the driver, that's the background music.'' The driver was political failure. Speaking, momentarily, as a Republican, he asked: ''What did we do this year for the American people? We did malpractice reform, bankruptcy reform, CAFTA [the Central America Free Trade Agreement], two indictments and one plead guilty.'' Emanuel punctuated the list by delivering staccato shots to my shoulder -- whack, whack, whack. ''Oh, and I forgot, Terri Schiavo. That's going to make them damn happy, right?'' The trick for the Democrats was to ''nationalize'' the election, to turn it into a referendum on the Bush administration. This was Emanuel's Lesson of '94. ''Bush is going to be on the ballot, like Clinton was in '94. We're going to provide a balance to Bush.'' 
 Emanuel was not one to wish away unpleasant facts, and he was blunt about the Democrats' excruciatingly difficult math. ''In 1994, they had about 100 competitive races,'' he explained. ''They had 54 open seats.'' But this time around fewer incumbents are retiring, and gerrymandering has sharply reduced the supply of competitive seats. The comparable numbers for 2006 are at most 42 competitive races and 19 open seats. Still, Emanuel felt a hurricane coming on. He had just returned from visiting open districts in Ohio and Minnesota. Both had voted for Bush in 2004, one heavily. In both cases, voters were saying almost two to one that they wanted a candidate to balance the president, not support him. ''My big worry right now is, there's too much time,'' Emanuel said. ''I'd like to have the election held next week.'' 
 As an observant Jew who trounced a Polish Catholic opponent in a blue-collar Catholic district, Emanuel did not worry about the authenticity deficit. (''They've got to get something from here,'' he said, ramming a finger into his gut, ''and if you can't do that, get out of this thing.'') He was, on the other hand, quite concerned about Iraq and national security. Emanuel knows that the Democrats need a muscular position to inoculate themselves against Republican attacks, but he conceded, ''You can't get the party there.'' His fallback position was: ''I don't want to get between the reality of the war and George Bush's rhetoric. We're trying to act responsible. It's his war; let him solve it.'' Or if he had to have a position, it was that we should demand from the Iraqis a time line on army and police readiness, civil society and so forth. I pointed out that the Iraqis have very little idea what their time lines are. Emanuel glowered at me and fairly shouted, ''I'm not talking about Iraq, I'm talking about the election here, bucko!'' And he inserted an expletive between ''the'' and ''election.'' Let it not be said that the Democrats lack for hardheaded leadership this time around.
 There is an argument that the Democrats have actually missed the most important lesson of 1994 -- the lesson coded in the Contract With America. ''In 1964,'' says Tony Blankley, Gingrich's former press secretary and now editorial-page editor of The Washington Times, ''we had convictions, but we didn't have programs; we didn't have rhetoric. It takes time to turn an instinct and a set of principles into a winning party presentation.'' The Republicans did fashion a winning party presentation in 1994; the proof is that Bill Clinton so masterfully co-opted much of it in the ensuing six years. Perhaps the Democrats' underlying difficulty is that, having turned their backs on important aspects of Clintonism, they no longer have a sufficiently coherent and appealing alternative. Perhaps, in short, the problem is with the song, not with the way the Democrats are singing. 
 This is, in fact, the view of the old New Democrats of the Clinton administration. When I went to see Mike McCurry, Clinton's former spokesman, he said, ''I see a lot of wishful thinking that we can return to an earlier day, that the thinking of the 60's will be in vogue again -- we just have to say it better.'' It's viscerally appealing to play to the base, he said, but ''it's very hard to get the liberal base to acknowledge that the liberal base is as small as it is.'' A survey conducted last November for the centrist Democratic Leadership Council found that almost half of voters considered Democrats too liberal, while 41 percent believed that the party was becoming yet more liberal. Voters found Republicans to be only slightly less remote from the mainstream, but the G.O.P. could survive such a perception, since self-described conservatives outnumbered liberals more than two to one. Al From, head of the D.L.C., and Mark Penn, who conducted the poll, concluded that ''America remains a moderate to conservative country'' and thus that ''Democrats need to capture the vital center and bring an abrupt halt to what voters perceive as the party's drift to the left.''
 The party's more conservative members speak of the need for an ''additive politics'' that appeals explicitly to middle-class voters. Will Marshall, the head of the Progressive Policy Institute, a centrist research group, says that rather than constantly conjuring the image of families hanging on by their fingernails -- the party's urban, industrial base -- the Democrats need ''a message that speaks to the aspirations of middle-class Americans.'' Nor can they simply ''empathize'' with the challenge of raising a moral child in an ambiguous world; they need to take on the record labels and entertainment companies whom the party depends on for financing. And they need to overcome voters' deep skepticism on the whole range of post-9/11 issues. Right now, says Marshall, ''the country is mostly hearing that the party wants to get out of Iraq fast.'' 
 It's a persuasive argument. But there's one question that Marshall and like-minded folk cannot convincingly answer: How do you harness the passion of your followers with a chastened politics that rebukes many of their convictions? How can you be ''authentic'' and ''genuine'' outside the confines of the Democratic wing of the Democratic Party? You can't, unless you're as brilliant as Bill Clinton. Indeed, you can see the dilemma play itself out in Clinton's two chief political offspring. In 2000, Al Gore unmoored himself from Clinton's ''Third Way'' politics to run a more satisfying race as a populist scourge of Big Oil and Big Health Care and so on -- and drastically underperformed expectations. Hillary Clinton, by contrast, an exquisitely sensitive instrument in such matters, has staked out centrist positions on such toxic issues as Iraq, abortion and even flag-burning in anticipation of the 2008 election. And party regulars have already begun despairing of her firmness of purpose. It's the Gordian knot the Democrats can't cut.
 In politics, of course, nothing is forever, and all such knots work themselves loose in time. Even if it is a center-right country, the Republicans may have slid so far to the right-hand edge, or may be so thoroughly undone by Iraq or by a string of indictments, that the Democrats will win anyway. Or the new, ''future oriented'' politics of which Mike McCurry says he dreams will materialize in 2008. Or perhaps cultural politics will change in such a way that we will no longer be a center-right country. Tom Davis says that he feels confident that the Republicans will hold on in 2006 unless Iraq collapses, and that the red-blue divide will continue playing out to the party's net advantage. ''But I don't think it will be true in 10 years,'' he adds. As levels of education, urbanization and immigration rise, the advantage will tip from red to blue. The big changes, after all, don't come from contracts with America, but from America itself.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A photograph of a computer screen with a map of blue states and red states on March 12, with an article about Democratic strategy and prospects in the next midterm elections, reversed the color-coding of Lake Superior and part of Michigan. Lake Superior should have been colored white, not blue; the Upper Peninsula of Michigan should have been blue.
A photograph of a computer screen with a map of blue states and red states on March 12, with an article about Democratic strategy and prospects in the next midterm elections, reversed the color-coding of Lake Superior and part of Michigan. Lake Superior should have been colored white, not blue; the Upper Peninsula of Michigan should have been blue.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Tim Davis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); COUPS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CORRUPTION (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) James Traub; Newt Gingrich

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006



263 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: The Home Fires Are Burning Out 

BYLINE: By Tanya Biank. 
Tanya Biank is the author of ''Under the Sabers: The Unwritten Code of Army Wives.''

DATELINE: Alexandria, Va. 

 BODY:
HERE'S a message from the military home front: Our volunteers are tired and need hired help. While husbands (the United States military is 85 percent male) crisscross the ocean for second, third and even fourth tours in Iraq, military wives (the overwhelming majority of volunteers are wives) are burdened not only with running households, caring for children and holding down jobs, but also with assisting families of deployed soldiers. 
 Almost 30 percent of all Army wives volunteer in a formal capacity. We run quality-of-life programs and serve on boards that take hours of dedication. We are the liaison between the commander and the soldiers' families, we refer people to various resources like the Red Cross and military-sponsored programs, we raise money to support family programs and in our informal roles, we are on call 24 hours a day to help families deal with divorce, child abuse, suicide and bereavement. Our work is expected, underappreciated and often goes unnoticed. 
We volunteers save the Department of Defense millions of dollars that would otherwise have to be spent on consultants, accountants, social workers, publicists, counselors, fundraisers, program managers, administrative assistants, advisers, class instructors and event coordinators. 
 To give you an example of the magnitude of volunteer service, for fiscal year 2005, volunteers with various family programs that the Army offers logged 632,897 hours of service. Our service to the Army is valued at more than $11 million.
 But what happens when the most dedicated and experienced of military spouses say they are worn out? 
 A friend of mine, a fellow Army wife and the mother of two small children, is the leader of the family readiness group of her husband's company. There are 60 soldiers in his relatively small company, but 51 of them are married. She is responsible for sustaining morale, cohesion and communication for 50 wives and their children, one husband and a handful of soldiers' parents. She leads meetings, manages and recruits other volunteers, holds fundraisers, updates rosters and passes on information from the command to families. Her husband has been deployed once to Iraq and twice to Afghanistan, where he is serving for a year. She's exhausted. ''I think that at times families forget that I am just a volunteer,'' she said.
 Needless to say, in the Army, if your volunteers are overwhelmed, you've got a big problem. Military recruitment and retention levels are directly linked to spouses, who are often the deciding factor in whether a soldier re-enlists or keeps a commission. If families are cared for and content, soldiers focus on their mission and are more likely to continue serving. 
 Leaders know this. Since his appointment in November 2004, the Army secretary, Francis Harvey, has said his top priority is the well-being of soldiers and their families. He has reason to worry about it: in the 2005 fiscal year, the Army missed its recruitment goal for the first time in six years. The number of officers leaving the military is the highest it has been since Sept. 11, 2001. Last year, 8.6 percent of junior officers left the service; that's up from 6.3 percent in 2004. The attrition rate for majors rose to 7 percent in 2005 from 6.4 percent in 2004. And the rate of lieutenant colonels leaving the military is 13.7 percent -- the highest it's been in more than a decade. 
 If the military wants to improve these numbers, they've got to accommodate families. Since the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the military has expanded its counseling and family assistance programs, but it's now time to reduce the burden placed on volunteers. The Defense Department needs to set aside money in its budget to provide for more paid professional support. And at a minimum, every brigade (about 3,000 soldiers) needs at least one trained and paid family readiness group assistant to undertake administrative tasks like dealing with paperwork and mailings, making phone calls, maintaining phone rosters and updating address lists and organizing meetings. 
 At larger military installations, a pilot program with paid family readiness group assistants that took the administrative burden off volunteers has been successful. The goal was to offer a program that standardized procedures, coordinated guidance and offered continuity for volunteer family readiness group leaders. But the jobs are only funded a year at time, and a consistent financing source is needed. 
 The Army should also consider starting a community pilot program that pairs deployed brigades with civilian clubs, organizations, businesses and schools willing to donate time to fundraising, babysitting and otherwise supporting the brigades' full-time volunteers. 
 And why not capitalize on the relationship between soldiers and chaplains by expanding and enhancing chaplaincy programs? A current program focuses on preventative marriage ''education'' rather than counseling when there's a problem. This preventative approach offers such things as weekend getaway retreats for young military couples. These retreats have been popular and successful, but they are expensive. More economical opportunities that can reach out to more couples are needed.
 ''Family life consultants,'' who look for initial signs of stress and make referrals for formal counseling and treatment, are appearing on more Army installations. The number of these paid consultants, whose services are free and confidential, should be increased, and the program expanded to all posts, as well as to all deployed reserve units' home bases. 
 The Army adapted how it fights wars in the 21st century. Now it's time to rethink its expectations of how it treats its volunteers. With each new deployment, the needs of military families evolve because each assignment is different and families may not have had enough time to recover from one deployment before the next one begins. It's not just soldiers who are worn down by repeated deployments -- spouses and children are affected too. If we are committed to our troops, then we need to make more of a commitment to their families.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Rogers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (71%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Volunteers

PERSON: Tanya Biank

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq; Afghanistan ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



264 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Colombians Cast Ballots In Key Election For Congress

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, March 12 

 BODY:
Colombians voted Sunday, despite fear of rebel violence, to elect a new Congress that will determine the government's success in carrying out a free trade agreement with the United States and other major policies. 
 President Alvaro Uribe, popular for reducing crime as part of his crackdown on drug-running leftist guerrillas, is expected to win re-election in May and to carry on his tough, Washington-backed, military and pro-market economic policies.
 He urged his countrymen to vote despite a series of recent rebel attacks aimed at scaring people away from the polls.
 Juan Carlos Echeverry, chairman of the economics department at the University of the Andes in Bogota, said he expected that Mr. Uribe would win a working majority in the Senate while lower house results were more uncertain. Mr. Uribe has strong support in both chambers but has struggled to form reliable majorities.
 ''This election will determine if the government can succeed in differentiating Colombia from the leftist trends in the region, by siding with Chile and Mexico instead of siding with Venezuela and Argentina,'' Mr. Echeverry said.
 Colombia remains a major ally for the United States in a region where left-wing policies and anti-American sentiment have won favor in recent elections.
 About 26.5 million Colombians are registered to vote in the election for the 268-member Congress, which is made up of 102 senators and 166 members of the lower house.
 Mr. Uribe wants Congress to help him shift the tax burden from companies to consumers in an effort to increase investment.
 The free trade pact, signed last month, is seen by economists as important for Colombia's future competitiveness, and Wall Street is clamoring for changes in tax law needed to attract foreign investment to the violence-scarred country.
 Dozens of people, most of them civilians, have been killed in recent weeks by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the rebel group that traditionally steps up attacks at election time. Thousands of people die and tens of thousands are forced from their homes every year in Colombia's decades-old guerrilla war.
 A car bomb exploded Sunday in the western jungle province of Choco, but no one was wounded, the army said. No incidents were reported at the country's polling places, the police said.
 ''Things are calm,'' a voter in Bogota said after casting her ballot. Most of us are voting today just as we always have.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A police officer frisked a voter yesterday at a polling station in Caloto, Colombia. Rebel violence was feared. (Photo by Carlos Duran/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); TRENDS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%) Elections; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (79%) Alvaro (Pres) Uribe

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%) COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%) Colombia

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



265 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Barcelona Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: A War of Words Over Catalonia Sets Off a War of Wine

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain 

 BODY:
In the struggle over autonomy between Spain and the Catalonia region, of which Barcelona is the capital, a new weapon of rather less than mass destruction has emerged: sparkling wine.
 The wine is Cava, which Catalonians describe as identical to Champagne, except for the source of the grapes.
 In the fall of 2004, after a coalition of Socialists, Communists and Catalonian separatists formed a government here, the separatist leader Josep-Lluis Carod-Rovira called for Catalonia to boycott Madrid's effort to be selected as host for the 2012 Olympic Games. (Barcelona was the site of the Olympics in 1992.) 
 Internet and cellphone text messages immediately crisscrossed Spain calling for Spaniards to boycott Catalonian goods, above all Cava. ''He wants a boycott, he'll get a boycott,'' a typical message read. ''Stop buying Catalonian products.''
 Mr. Carod eventually ate his words, but by then the damage had been done. Thousands of bottles of bubbly Cava, purchased for a hoped-for victory celebration, went unopened after Madrid lost out to London. 
 The Cava market grew that year by only a little over 2 percent, compared with double-digit growth in previous years, said Gustau Garcia Guillamet, president of the Cava regulatory council, an industry body. 
 The following year, 2005, the Catalonian Parliament enacted an autonomy statute that all but declared Catalonia, with its seven million people, a separate nation, and sales of Cava plummeted by almost 7 percent. The final text of the statute is being negotiated, but relations between the central government in Madrid and the region became so tense that in January the Madrid government had to arrest a senior army general after he stated publicly that military intervention might be necessary if Catalonia's striving for more self-government threatened Spanish unity.
 ''It had been a good year up to September, October,'' said Pedro Ferrer, the chief executive of the Freixenet group, the largest Cava producer, in a phone call from London, where he is seeking to expand sales to offset the losses at home. ''There was turmoil after September and the passage of the autonomy statute,'' he added, ''and we got caught in the middle.''
 The big producers, like Freixenet, which together with Codorniu, the No. 2, controls about two-thirds of the market, have offset losses in Spain by increasing sales abroad. By now, Freixenet sells roughly 80 percent of its Cava outside Spain -- in Germany, its largest export market, but also in Britain and the United States, its second and third largest markets. 
 Wine retailers have been caught in the middle. When the manager of an Alcampo supermarket, owned by the Auchan group of France, displayed a poster in his store saying there was a ''special exhibit of non-Catalonian Cavas, behind the frozen food aisle,'' the message was rapidly posted on the Internet, prompting calls in Catalonia for a boycott of Alcampo. Alcampo apologized publicly to the Catalonians, saying the poster was unauthorized.
 Indeed, the only person who could drink Cava with impunity, in this poisoned environment, appeared to be King Juan Carlos I. Yet not even he could escape the irony of the moment when, at a New Year's ceremony, he lifted a flute of Catalonian Cava to toast the unity of the nation.
 Now the Cava industry, which accounts for about 8,000 jobs in Catalonia, is struggling to figure out whether the drop in sales last year was solely the result of the boycott or of other factors, like shifts in consumer habits. A study last year found that the biggest culprit in the sales drop was the absence of purchases by large corporate customers that traditionally include a bottle of sparkling wine, usually Cava, in year-end gift packages for customers and employees. Apparently, many companies feared that a gift of Cava would be taken as a political statement. 
 Still, some in Barcelona say they have benefited from the boycott. In Lafuente, a big food and liquor store on a corner of the Rambla de Catalunya, Faustino Munoz Soria, the owner, said local customers reacted to the boycott with a ''now more than ever'' attitude. ''I've heard several people say, 'If last year it was wine, this year it will be Cava,' '' said Mr. Munoz, who boasts that he sells more than 244 brands of Cava. Yet he admitted that his home-delivery Internet business, which had been growing and attracts customers in the rest of Spain and abroad, has suffered. Last year, the value of sales dropped by fully 10 percent. 
 Some Cava makers minimize the effects of the boycott. Magi Raventos Saenz, a member of the family that owns Codorniu, said that if a boycott was behind the sales drop, ''it will end in two or three years.'' He cited the informal boycott of French wines in the United States after France refused to support the Iraq war, which he said had petered out in ''about a year or so.'' 
 Other changes in Spain might also explain some of the slump, Mr. Raventos said. For one, he cited a general trend away from wine as a mealtime beverage. Also, stricter laws penalizing drunken drivers had led to a drop in alcohol consumption, including Cava. On the bright side, however, consumers, ''especially women,'' he said, were helping the sale of sparkling wine globally by drinking it all through the year, and not just during the holidays.
 Others said the effects of the boycott were already diminishing, though it was too early to tell for sure, in an industry where roughly half of all sales are during the year-end holidays. ''There is less tension, less uproar,'' said Mr. Ferrer of Freixenet. ''In Spain, the market is strong, the economy is strong.''
 If Cava was the loser, who were the winners? Sales of sparkling wines from regions of Spain other than Catalonia, like Estremadura and Castilla-La Mancha, nearly doubled last year. At the same time, sales of French Champagne soared by almost 40 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Faustino Munoz Soria, owner of Lafuente, a food and liquor store in Barcelona, said a boycott by Spaniards of Catalonian goods, above all Cava wine, had inspired a ''now more than ever'' attitude in customers. (Photographs by Stefano Buonamici for The New York Times)Map of Spain highlighting Catalonia: Mr. Munoz says he sells more than 244 brands of Cava.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); WINE (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (75%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); EXHIBITIONS (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) Alcoholic Beverages; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Summer Games (Olympics); Boycotts; Wines; Alcoholic Beverages

COMPANY: FREIXENET SA (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (85%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (85%)

PERSON: John Tagliabue; Josep-Lluis Carod-Rovira

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (99%) SPAIN (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Madrid (Spain); Spain; Catalonia (Spain); Barcelona (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



266 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Death Poses Challenges as Serbia Faces Past and Future 

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD and JUDY DEMPSEY; Nicholas Wood reported from Belgrade for this article, and Judy Dempsey from Berlin.

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia and Montenegro, March 12 

 BODY:
The death of Slobodan Milosevic just as his long war-crimes trial was nearing an end poses new complexities for Europe and the United States, which both hoped to solve outstanding problems in the Balkans this year that are a legacy of Mr. Milosevic's role in the region's three wars in the 1990's.
 The United States has been pushing to settle Kosovo's political future, while the European Union has given the Serbian government until April to hand over Ratko Mladic, military leader of the Bosnian Serbs during the 1992-95 war, who is accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and other war crimes for the siege of Sarajevo and the massacre of thousands of Muslim men and boys around Srebrenica in July 1995. 
 The death of Mr. Milosevic, the former leader of Yugoslavia who presided over its disintegration, also throws doubt on the ability of the current Serbian government to move ahead of nationalist sentiments and make any compromises on either Kosovo or the handing over of Mr. Mladic or other indicted war crimes suspects to a United Nations tribunal in The Hague. The tribunal has in the past two weeks proved unable to prevent not only Mr. Milosevic's death but also the suicide of a convicted war criminal, Milan Babic, wartime leader of Croatia's Serbs.
 Mr. Milosevic was just weeks away from completing his own defense in a trial that had dragged on for more than four years, examining the actions that earned him the epithet ''Butcher of the Balkans'' during the wars of the 1990's over Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. The United Nations said Sunday that an autopsy showed he died of a heart attack, but if there proves to be anything suspicious about the cause, which is still under investigation, his effort to be seen as a martyr for the Serbian cause could be enhanced.
 In Belgrade on Sunday, the response from most Serbs to the death was publicly largely mute, although it stirred enormous interest both at home and among the large community of Serb exiles who have left the country during the past 15 years of warfare and economic ruin.
 Several Serbian newspapers fueled speculation about the death. In three, headlines said he was murdered. ''The Hague killed Milosevic,'' said one. Another said he was killed by his medical treatment.
 There were few public displays of grief for Mr. Milosevic -- indeed, Sunday was the commemoration, by the government, of the third anniversary of the assassination of Zoran Djindjic, the prime minister and longtime opponent of Mr. Milosevic.
 The most immediate controversy concerned whether Mr. Milosevic should be buried in Serbia and Montenegro, or in Moscow, where his widow, Mirjana Markovic, has been living. Any funeral in Belgrade would probably be a rallying point for Mr. Milosevic's supporters and nationalists, and it would bring his family back to Belgrade. Mr. Milosevic might more easily be cast as a martyr, and any appearance by Ms. Markovic would pose a fresh quandary for the Serbian government, because there is an international warrant for her arrest on charges of abuse of power in the 1990's.
 The Socialist Party, which Mr. Milosevic led, has asked the government to waive all charges against the family and requested that he be buried in a corner of Belgrade's main cemetery that is known as the ''Alley of the Great.'' 
 ''It's the way he's buried and where he's buried that is the issue,'' said Zoran Korac, a former deputy prime minister and opposition politician during Mr. Milosevic's rule. ''You cannot prevent a man from being buried in his own country,'' Mr. Korac said, but added that he ''would be dead set against'' any recognition of Mr. Milosevic as leader.
 Mr. Milosevic fell from popular grace after his ouster in 2000, when his popularity ratings dropped to 10 percent, according to Strategic Marketing Research, a polling company that monitors the popularity of Serbian politicians. But the sight of Mr. Milosevic on television single-handedly taking on the Hague tribunal, which many Serbs believe is biased against them, doubled those ratings, said Srdjan Bogosavljevic, head of Strategic Marketing Research.
 Some Serbs have apparently forgotten the hyperinflation, economic and diplomatic isolation associated with Mr. Milosevic's rule. ''My salary is less now than it was then,'' said Zoran Mihajlovic, 47, a hotel manager in Vranje, a town in southern Serbia. If there were problems during Mr. Milosevic's time, added Mr. Mihajlovic, who stressed that he did not support the Socialists, ''I'm sure he didn't know about 60 percent of all the things happening in Serbia.''
 But some analysts said the death of Mr. Milosevic could signal the beginning of the end of a burden that had been weighing down Serbia even after Mr. Milosevic was sent to the Hague tribunal in 2001.
 ''Slowly, the long shadow of Milosevic might now start fading,'' said Danijel Pantic, director of the European Movement, an independent research group in Belgrade. ''Now there is a chance of a younger generation to emerge which could even stabilize the government.''
 The first big test for the Serbian president, Boris Tadic, and his prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, is whether they can still persuade Mr. Mladic and the Bosnian Serbs' wartime political leader, Radovan Karadic, to surrender to the Hague tribunal. Both men have been fugitives for more than 10 years; security officials confirmed last month that negotiations were under way with Mr. Mladic over his surrender.
 But Olli Rehn, enlargement commissioner for the European Union, has said talks on an association with Serbia will be cut off on April 5 if Belgrade has not handed over Mr. Mladic or Mr. Karadzic by then.
 While some European Union countries prefer to keep the door open to give Serbian reformers some hope of reaching their goal of bringing the country closer to the rest of Europe, the United States and Carla Del Ponte, the tribunal's chief prosecutor, are insisting that the European Union should not start any formal talks for a ''stabilization and association agreement,'' a step toward eventual membership, until the two men have been handed over.
 Meeting in the Austrian town of Salzburg as word of Mr. Milosevic's death spread on Saturday, European Union foreign ministers delivered a mixed message to Serbia.
 Ursula Plassnik, the Austrian foreign minister and chairwoman of the Salzburg meeting, insisted that ''European unification is incomplete without the Balkans.'' But she also warned Serbia that ''it must come to terms with the legacy of the past.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Slobodan Milosevic waited to sign a book of condolences yesterday at the headquarters of the Serbian Socialist Party in Belgrade. (Photo by Filip Horvat for The New York Times)
 Carla Del Ponte, center, chief prosecutor at the war crimes trial in The Hague, discussed Mr. Milosevic's death at a news conference yesterday. (Photo by Robin Utrecht/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (94%); GENOCIDE (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DEATHS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MURDER (58%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) European Union

PERSON: Nicholas Wood; Judy Dempsey; Ratko (Gen) Mladic; Slobodan Milosevic

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (98%); EUROPE (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%) Serbia and Montenegro; Europe; Kosovo (Serbia); Bosnia and Herzegovina; Serbia and Montenegro; Croatia

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



267 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Citing Oil Rigs as Fish Havens, Companies Resist Removal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif., March 11 

 BODY:
A marine biologist has found that 27 oil platforms off California's Central Coast may be havens for bocaccio, cowcod and other fish. Oil company executives have seized on the finding, hoping it will help them avoid paying hundreds of millions of dollars to remove the platforms once the oil stops flowing.
 The platforms -- skeletal-looking structures that house dormitories, offices and massive pumps -- were installed over the last four decades and produce 72,000 barrels of oil daily. Environmentalists and nearby residents despise them, saying they disrupt the ocean's natural ecology and coastal views. 
Federal law requires the oil companies to remove the Southern California platforms when operations are complete, though no one knows how long it will be before deposits under the sea floor run out.
 Oil companies are already pressing state and federal officials to keep the rigs in place, citing the findings of the marine biologist, Milton Love, a researcher at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Dr. Love said many fish adopted the platforms because they could not reach the natural reefs, now decimated, where they once thrived.
 Environmentalists say oil companies are hiding behind fish to escape their obligation to remove the rigs.
 ''Just because fish are there doesn't mean the platform constitutes habitat,'' said Linda Krop, a lawyer for the Environmental Defense Center. ''That's like taking a picture of birds on a telephone wire and saying it's essential habitat.''
 If the platforms are removed, environmentalists contend, fish will return to the natural reefs that hug Southern California's coast: boulder fields and low-lying, rocky outcroppings that can be home to sponges and other invertebrates.
 The claims about the fish have also not yet convinced federal officials. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said last week that it might eventually consider letting platforms remain as fish habitat but wanted to know more about their effects on marine life.
 Since the 1950's, when heavy fishing began in the region, some species have been reduced to 6 percent of their previous numbers, Dr. Love said. Overfishing has led to an economic disaster, leading some fisheries to close.
 Dr. Love films fish around the platforms from a submarine and then counts them in his laboratory. 
 Among his findings are that large fish prefer crevices at the platforms' base, and smaller ones like the middle section above their predators.
 At Platform Gail, which stands in 739 feet of water nine miles off the Ventura coast, Dr. Love found what he believes to be the highest density of two species of overfished rockfish in Southern California.
 Dr. Love emphasizes that his research does not draw conclusions about whether the platforms should be removed. He says his personal view is that the rigs should stay in place, cut below the waterline so that ships can pass safely over them.
 Dr. Love gets about 80 percent of his research money from the government, and the rest from the California Artificial Reef Enhancement Program, a Sacramento nonprofit group financed almost entirely by oil companies. The group has contributed about $100,000 a year to his research since 1999, said its executive director, George Steinbach. Dr. Love said oil industry money could not sway his research.
 Proposals to keep the platforms are modeled on programs in the Gulf of Mexico, where, under arrangements with states, more than 200 rigs have been converted into artificial reefs either by toppling them or by cutting them below the waterline.
 Ms. Krop, the environmental lawyer, says rig-to-reef conversions make more sense in the Gulf of Mexico because the waters there have a mud bottom, not natural reefs.
 Converting platforms between Long Beach and Point Conception north of Santa Barbara could be $600 million to $1 billion cheaper than removing them, Mr. Steinbach said. In exchange for letting the rigs stay, Mr. Steinbach said, oil companies would contribute up to half their savings to state conservation programs.
 Widespread opposition from environmentalists and residents has so far killed legislation that would have allowed such a deal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A school of rockfish gathered near an oil platform off the coast of Ventura, Calif. Rigs in the Pacific Ocean have become habitats for the fish. (Photo by Donna Schroeder/ University of California, Santa Barbara, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); FISHES (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); FISHERIES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); LAWYERS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



268 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Accounts 

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
EarthLink, Atlanta, selected Lowe Worldwide, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its television, online and direct-marketing creative account, formerly at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners. Spending was estimated at more than $50 million. The gain for Lowe came after several recent large account losses. 
 Masterfoods USA, Hackettstown, N.J., a division of Mars, expanded its relationship with TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, by awarding the agency the creative duties for Snickers candy, which had been handled since 1995 by BBDO Worldwide, New York, also part of Omnicom. Spending was estimated at $40 million. TBWA/Chiat/Day creates ads for Masterfoods brands like Skittles and Starburst; BBDO New York continues creating ads for brands like M&M's and Milky Way.
BASF Americas division, Florham Park, N.J., named Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, to handle corporate assignments that include advertising, internal communications and trade campaigns. Spending was estimated at $15 million. BASF Americas had worked for the last 15 years with Cramer-Krasselt/Hampel Stefanides, New York, part of Cramer-Krasselt, and predecessor agencies.
 Sprint Nextel, Reston, Va., consolidated its media planning and buying account, with spending estimated at $750 million, at MindShare, New York, part of the WPP Group, which handled those duties for business advertising. Starcom, Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, had handled planning and buying for consumer advertising. Before Sprint and Nextel merged, MindShare was the Nextel media agency and Starcom was the Sprint media agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%) Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (92%); MARS INC (92%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (91%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (91%); WPP PLC (90%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (83%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); BBDO NEW YORK (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (56%); HAMPEL/STEFANIDES (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (93%); PUB (PAR) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); S (NYSE) (83%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



269 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Nudging Russia's President

 BODY:
This summer, President Vladimir Putin of Russia is to play host to heads of the world's most powerful democracies in the glorious city of St. Petersburg. It is a chance for Mr. Putin to seal Russia's membership in the Group of 8. But there are many people -- most recently Senator John McCain -- who are so outraged about the way Mr. Putin has been de-democratizing Russia that they want President Bush to boycott the meeting. A better course would be for the United States and the other members of the group to make it clearer that membership in their club requires a functioning democracy. 
 In a stinging report last week, a Council on Foreign Relations task force called on the Bush administration to rethink its ''partnership'' with Russia. The council proposed a relationship that points to some areas for cooperation but also picks out key areas for criticism. Those conclusions quickly drew objections, including some from members of the task force itself who argued that the United States should ''cold-bloodedly'' cooperate on important matters and consider what goes on inside Russia to be Russia's business.
 Nobody wants to sidetrack U.S.-Russian agreements on terrorism or nuclear proliferation or to thwart future cooperation on Iran. And there is no question that the relationship between the West and Russia is far better than it was 15 years ago during the final months of the Soviet Union. Mr. Putin, who is very popular with most Russians, has brought some stability and a degree of economic progress. He has even encouraged the growth of a fledgling middle class that might eventually demand a freer society and a workable rule of law. 
 But the council report catalogs an alarming list of ways that Mr. Putin has restricted opposition and accumulated power. His government has taken over the national television networks. He has tightened controls over the legislature and made it difficult for any political opponents to gain traction. He has threatened nongovernmental groups and denied the judicial system real independence. 
 The Bush administration has emphasized deal-making with Russia while remaining too quiet about Mr. Putin's steady retreat from democracy. It should heed the report's advice about a more balanced approach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); TRENDS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials; Boycotts; Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%) Group of Eight; Council on Foreign Relations

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; John S (Sen) Mccain; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Russia; St Petersburg (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



270 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Pharmacists Say Drug Plan Threatens Their Livelihood

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
Pharmacists say they have been losing money under Medicare's new prescription drug benefit, and they have taken their concerns to the White House, forcing the administration to confront political problems caused by the rocky start of the program.
 In a meeting last week with Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, the druggists said many independent pharmacies might have to shut their doors because they were not being paid adequately or promptly under Medicare. In the last two months, they said, pharmacists have given away millions of dollars' worth of medications for which Medicare drug plans should have paid.
 The pharmacists who visited the White House were all from Texas. Several have close ties to Mr. Rove and President Bush. But their concerns are shared by retail pharmacists across the country, who said that Medicare drug plans were paying them less than it cost to fill prescriptions for the beneficiaries.
 Bill C. Pittman, a former president of the Texas State Board of Pharmacy who is chairman of Pharmacists for Bush, a political fund-raising group, arranged the meeting, held on Monday at the White House. 
 Richard E. Beck, one of the Texas pharmacists who met with Mr. Rove, said, ''Pharmacies are losing money on Medicare.'' Slow payment by Medicare drug plans has caused cash-flow problems for many pharmacies, he said.
 Mr. Pittman said he told Mr. Rove and other officials: ''If pharmacists don't receive immediate relief, some will go broke. Others are hurting so bad that they will choose not to participate in Medicare and Medicaid.''
 Mr. Bush has described the drug benefit as ''the greatest advance in health care for seniors since the founding of Medicare'' in 1965. Administration officials said beneficiaries were saving large amounts of money because prescription drug plans had negotiated deep discounts with drug makers and pharmacies.
 The new benefit is delivered by private health plans subsidized by Medicare. The drug plans have contracts with pharmacies. Medicare officials said they would help pharmacists enforce the terms of these contracts. But pharmacists said this was not enough because insurers typically offered the contracts on a ''take it or leave it'' basis.
 The pharmacists underscored the political significance of their concerns in a report presented to Mr. Rove and Allan B. Hubbard, assistant to the president for economic policy.
 ''Most independent community pharmacists are small-business Republicans,'' the report said. ''Pharmacists want to be supportive of this administration, and they can play an active role in the midterm elections. But pharmacists need to be able to point to some corrective actions being taken by the administration.''
 Trent D. Duffy, a White House spokesman, said: ''From our perspective, it was a positive, productive meeting. We want to understand the concerns of pharmacists. They play a critical role in delivery of the drug benefit. At the same time, we want to make sure that seniors are getting the best possible deal.''
 As of mid-February, 342,000 people had enrolled in prescription drug plans in Texas, more than in any other state. An additional 230,000 Texans were in Medicare plans that covered drugs along with hospital care and doctors' services.
 Even as pharmacists take on new duties under Medicare, they are discovering that they will be paid less than they now receive under Medicaid, the program sponsored by federal and state governments for low-income people.
 In February 2005, Mr. Bush proposed significant cuts in Medicaid payments to pharmacies. Many of those cuts were included in a deficit reduction bill that he signed into law last month. In his 2007 budget, he proposed further cuts.
 Critics called the cuts immoral. Mr. Bush replied, ''It's not immoral to make sure that prescription drug pharmacists don't overcharge the system.'' His comment, in Manchester, N.H., on Feb. 8 this year, infuriated many pharmacists because it seemed to suggest that they were cheating the government.
 In a letter to the president, James L. Martin, executive director of the Texas Pharmacy Association, said, ''It has become obvious that you and your advisers do not understand the profession of pharmacy.''
 Druggists said they had no discretion in deciding how much to charge patients under Medicare and Medicaid. Those decisions are made by Medicare drug plans and state Medicaid programs, they said.
 Mr. Martin, one of the pharmacists who met with Mr. Rove, said Mr. Bush's comment was particularly galling to pharmacists because they had ''bailed out the Medicare prescription drug program'' in its first weeks.
 Pharmacists helped hundreds of thousands of people sort through scores of prescription drug plans. They filled millions of prescriptions even though they could not get the information needed to verify eligibility.
 Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, said pharmacists' efforts had been ''nothing short of heroic.'' In the first month of the Medicare drug program, he said, many pharmacists provided ''three-to-five-day supplies of medicines to beneficiaries without payment.''
 In an e-mail message to Mr. Rove on Feb. 13, Mr. Beck wrote, ''I have been a loyal Republican for a long time.'' But he said pharmacists were ''distraught that a Republican president would attack our profession.'' 
 Mr. Beck, who is vice president of American Pharmacies, a purchasing co-op based in San Antonio, said the first six weeks of the new Medicare program had been ''a total fiasco'' for many pharmacists. ''I have some members on the brink of going out of business,'' he said.
 In an e-mail response, Mr. Rove said: ''The president was not attacking pharmacists and pharmacies. He was responding to the Democrat leader of the Senate who called the Medicaid reforms 'immoral.' ''
 Pharmacists said that Medicare drug plans were paying them less than Medicaid and commercial insurers paid for the same services.
 In an interview, Mr. Beck said: ''Reimbursement by Medicare drug plans is very low and slow. Pharmacists are being asked to bankroll the program. Many have to dig into personal savings and take out loans to stay in business.''
 Medicaid and commercial insurers pay pharmacies 7 to 15 days after a prescription is filled, but Medicare drug plans often take 30 days or more, Mr. Beck said.
 Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said he thought the cash-flow problems had been resolved, but he promised to investigate any complaints.
 The pharmacists offered several recommendations to the White House. They said the government should require prompt payment, by electronic transfer, every week or 10 days. They said Medicare should give pharmacists a financial incentive to dispense low-cost generic drugs rather than brand-name medications. 
 And they said Medicare drug plans should not be allowed to advertise a specific drugstore company on their member identification cards. Such ''co-branding arrangements'' confuse beneficiaries by suggesting they cannot use other drugstores, the pharmacists said.
 ''You don't have advertising on a Social Security card,'' said Marvin D. Shepherd, a professor at the College of Pharmacy at the University of Texas, who attended the White House meeting. ''Why would you have advertising on Medicare prescription drug cards?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill C. Pittman arranged a meeting with the White House on behalf of Texas pharmacists. (Photo by Deborah Lykins for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); PHARMACIES (93%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ELDER HEALTH (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); MEDICAID (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Finances

ORGANIZATION: Medicare

PERSON: KARL ROVE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Robert Pear; Karl Rove; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



271 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: A Bush Alarm: Shun Isolation

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
The president who made pre-emption and going it alone the watchwords of his first term is quietly turning in a new direction, warning at every opportunity of the dangers of turning the nation inward and isolationist, and making the case for international engagement on issues from national security to global economics.
 President Bush's cautions on the dangers of pulling back behind American borders -- in trade and investment, in immigration and in his effort to make the spread of democracy the signature of his second term -- first cropped up in his State of the Union address six weeks ago.
 But it accelerated even before the Dubai ports deal was derailed by members of his own party, and before an unexpected uprising began among some neo-conservatives, who are now arguing that Iraq, while a noble effort, has turned into a failed mission that must be abandoned. 
 In interviews over the past week, Mr. Bush's aides, insisting on anonymity, they say, because they do not want to worsen the fissures, say they fear that the new mood threatens to undermine the international agenda for the rest of Mr. Bush's presidency. 
 ''We're seeing it in everything,'' said one of Mr. Bush's closest aides last week. ''Iraq. The ferocity of an irrational argument over the ports. Guest workers. China and India.'' 
 So starting on Monday, just a few days shy of the third anniversary of Mr. Bush's order to topple Saddam Hussein, the president will begin an effort to explain his Iraq strategy anew in the changed environment of increased sectarian killings. 
 He acknowledged on Saturday that ''many of our fellow citizens'' are ''now wondering if the entire mission is worth it.'' 
 But rather than simply delve into the familiar talk about the need to root out terrorists abroad so they cannot strike Americans here, the White House plans to have Mr. Bush expand his discussion of the need for the United States to embrace a new role in the world, even if that means explaining the benefits of globalization to a nation that does not appear to be in a mood to hear that message.
 It is yet another change for a man who came to office talking of a ''humble foreign policy,'' and after Sept. 11 used the hammer of the world's sole superpower around the globe. 
 To his critics, the internationalist approach is too little too late -- the price Mr. Bush has paid for a foreign policy that seemed relentlessly focused on building defensive walls and hunting enemies. A search of the White House Web site confirms that Mr. Bush, who in the days before he took office kept the take-no-prisoners speeches of Teddy Roosevelt on a table at his ranch, made little mention of ''globalization'' for much of his first five years in office, even when European leaders brought it up. 
 Asked once, several years ago, about his aversion to the topic, one of his senior aides said Mr. Bush associated the word with ''mushy Clintonianism.''
 ''It ranks up there with 'nation-building,' '' he added.
 No longer. Now Mr. Bush is moving into a new phase of his presidency, not by choice or natural inclination, it seems, but by necessity. Mr. Bush changed his tone on nation-building several years ago.
 As the invasion turned to occupation, he emphasized the spread of democracy. But even that talk, especially during his re-election campaign, had a unilateralist subtext: the schools and polling places were open because the hammer of the American military made it possible. 
 His new theme is different, because it is all about interdependence. Two of his aides say the near defeat of the Central American Free Trade Agreement in Congress last summer -- it passed by one vote, after arm-twisting by the president brought just enough Republicans back into the fold -- jolted Mr. Bush into recognizing a new retreat from the world by his own party. 
 For the State of the Union address, Mr. Bush instructed his speechwriters to make global engagement a major theme, a big change for a man who ran in 2000 under the banner of a ''humble foreign policy.'' In the speech, he warned that ''the road of isolationism and protectionism may seem broad and inviting -- yet it ends in danger and decline.''
 By the time he visited India earlier this month, he argued that while American jobs were often lost to outsourcing, ''you don't retrench and pull back.''
 He said he had to convince Americans that ''a 300-million-person market of middle-class citizens here in India'' would soon be buying American goods. 
 ''If we can make a product they want, then it becomes -- at a reasonable price -- and then all of a sudden, people will be able to have a market here,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's remarks may signal a halting emergence from a mind-set that, by his own acknowledgment, was set by 9/11. ''There is a lot of on-the-job training in the modern presidency,'' said David J .Rothkopf, the author of ''Running the World,'' a history of the National Security Council, and a Commerce Department official under President Clinton.
 ''Clinton ran on taking a tough line with China, and decided we needed China,'' Mr. Rothkopf said. ''Bush came in with a philosophy that was almost neo-isolationist. When they dealt with Iraq, they did it alone -- outside the context of what globalization implies. That's why the second term is the un-first term.''
 In the next few weeks, Mr. Bush will try to outmaneuver the next Dubai. On immigration, he is fighting in Congress to retain his guest-worker program rather than just strengthen the borders. When President Hu Jintao of China arrives here next month, Mr. Bush must once again do a delicate balancing act, convincing Congress that he is pressing China to close the $201 billion trade gap, while courting Beijing to help disarm North Korea and Iran. 
 But Iraq is the elephant on the White House lawn. Mr. Bush's speeches on Iraq are intended to shore up fast-ebbing public support, made worse by talk of civil war.
 When Mr. Bush gave a set of speeches on Iraq in December, the calls to pull out were mostly from the left. Now, a rising chorus of neo-conservatives, who urged Mr. Bush to topple Mr. Hussein, say that, having liberated Iraq, the rest is up to the Iraqis. 
 ''The administration has, now, to cope with failure,'' William F. Buckley Jr. wrote in February. ''The kernel here is the acknowledgment of defeat.'' 
 Briefing reporters on Friday about Mr. Bush's coming speeches, a senior White House official, speaking anonymously because he was describing speeches still being drafted, said Mr. Bush would answer those criticisms and ''explain why we and the Iraqis must finish the job together.'' A year ago, Mr. Bush's allies took such statements as a given. Today, that is no longer the case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); TERRORISM (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



272 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: When Children Suffer Abuse

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Children in Torment,'' by Bob Herbert (column, March 9): 
I don't think that any parent can read about child abuse without having a visceral reaction. Every time.
 But government social agencies cannot be omniscient and omnipotent. 
 Children spend much of their lives in the control of their parents. Sometimes it goes horribly wrong, especially when the parents are young, uneducated, financially strapped and grew up without proper behavioral models themselves.
 The only way I can think of to tackle the problem is to work to uplift the entire at-risk population. That means lower unemployment. Better minimum wages. Family planning, including contraception and safe access to abortion. Better education and social services.
 In other words, the whole big-government safety net that every Republican administration from Ronald Reagan to the present has been trying to dismantle, plus the family planning services that are under relentless fire from the ideologues of the far right.
 Sadly, I can't see this problem getting fixed in present-day America.

Jonathan Gordon
New York, March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); ABORTION (68%) Child Abuse and Neglect

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (67%) Jonathan Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



273 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: A Developer's Vision for the Diamond District Sends Uneasy Shivers Down 47th Street

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Gary Barnett has come a long way since he got his start as a diamond merchant two decades ago in Antwerp. He came to New York in the early 1990's, got into real estate, and runs a business that has seven major projects in Manhattan.
 But now, his plans for an eighth project -- a 30-story global diamond exchange in the heart of the city's diamond district -- have some there charging that he is undermining their well-being and betraying his roots.
 A number of the landlords and diamond sellers on West 47th Street, where brokers' pockets are filled with tissue-wrapped diamonds worth hundreds of thousands of dollars and deals are still sealed with a handshake, have taken to the barricades to stop him. They fear that Mr. Barnett's tower will steal all the best tenants and leave the rest of the 60-year-old district a ''ghost town,'' if he is successful in lobbying the city for tax breaks and other incentives. 
 Mr. Barnett, known in Belgium as Gershon Barnett, has asked the city for a substantial subsidy package for a state-of-the-art building that would house retailers, wholesalers, jewelry makers, diamond cutters, mining companies, shippers, banks, their safes and a high-security garage. He says the building could help reinvigorate the dowdy, low-scale block between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, an important international diamond center that is under siege from low-cost producers, Internet sales, suburban diamond exchanges, Wal-Mart and Costco.
 With the flow of cheaper diamonds from India and now China, hundreds of the cutters and polishers who worked in the small rooms above the diamond and jewelry arcades that line 47th Street have left New York or retired over the past 20 years.
 New York remains a distribution center, because 90 percent of the diamonds that come into the United States -- about half the diamonds sold in the world -- flow through 47th Street. But, Mr. Barnett contends, New York's diamond district will almost certainly continue to lose ground unless something is done.
 ''The diamond and jewelry industry needs a center,'' said Mr. Barnett, 50, a dark-haired man who favors white shirts sans ties. ''There have been several diamond buildings. But there's nothing brand-new, modern.''
 He says that New York needs the kind of government-supported central diamond exchanges that have been built in Shanghai, Tel Aviv and now Dubai.
 Over the past four years, Mr. Barnett has acquired 10 five-story buildings midblock, on the south side of 47th Street and the north side of 46th Street. Tenants have been notified that demolition should start in May or June.
 But Mr. Barnett has run into opposition from the 47th Street Business Improvement District, local landlords and some retailers. They say diamond manufacturing will never come back to New York from India and China. Further, they say Mr. Barnett's tower will upset the delicate ecosystem that exists on the street if he gets municipal tax breaks that give him a competitive advantage.
 ''The city's not really giving abatements to anybody,'' said Jeffrey Levin, the chairman of the business improvement district and the owner of Firenze Jewels. ''I'm afraid of the district disappearing. He's trying to rob the other buildings of their tenants. It could become a ghost town.'' 
 The block is a rare low-slung respite of mostly five-story buildings amid Midtown skyscrapers. At street level, there are more than two dozen exchanges or arcades comprising dozens of separate booths, with the best-known getting the coveted window spots. If Mr. Barnett's subsidized tower pulls in all the best tenants, critics contend that the rest will follow, at the expense of the district as a whole. 
 Kenneth Kahn, an owner of what is now the premier diamond building, 580 Fifth Avenue, near 47th Street, said that Mr. Barnett's representatives have already approached 170 tenants in his building, including the industry's cornerstones: the Diamond Dealers Club, a major international bourse, and the Gemological Institute of America. Basant Johari, president of Kuber Manufacturing and a director of the Diamond Club, said the club had received a very attractive offer.
 ''Mr. Barnett planned to build a building for the industry that would bring in business from overseas,'' Mr. Kahn said. ''But that's just not possible. All he's done is go around poaching tenants from other buildings. If the city wants to give benefits, give them to the whole block and enable the entire industry to benefit.''
 Mr. Kahn has hired a lobbyist, Fran Reiter, a former deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration, to offset Mr. Barnett and his lobbyist, Suri Kasirer.
 Mr. Barnett has met several times with city officials to discuss the project, and he has invited Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff to lunch at the Diamond Dealers Club. But so far, no deal has been struck.
 ''We want to make sure that if we provide incentives, the project will create new jobs, not just cannibalize existing jobs,'' said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 There is no question that the diamond district is in a state of flux. It is one of the few remaining industrial and commercial centers that could once be found in disparate corners of Manhattan. There is little left today of the flower, fur, printer and garment districts, but the diamond district remains, although with a different focus.
 Like New York itself, the diamond and jewelry district started downtown, at Nassau and Fulton Streets, before migrating up to the Bowery near Canal. By 1940, it began the leap northward to 47th Street. At the same time, Jews fleeing the diamond centers in Antwerp and Amsterdam landed in New York, bringing an entrepreneurial flair and an expertise in cutting and polishing.
 Large, expensive diamonds -- say, 3, 4, and 5 carats -- are still cut and polished on 47th Street, but manufacturing has for the most part moved on. The number of diamond cutters has declined to about 300, from roughly 3,000 15 years ago, according to Martin Rapaport, publisher of the Rapaport Diamond Report.
 The reason is simple economics. If it costs $110 to cut a one-carat diamond in New York and $65 or more in Tel Aviv, it can be done in India, where there are a million people involved in the industry, for as little as $10, Mr. Rapaport said.
 ''Forty-seventh Street has made a huge transition from a diamond manufacturing center to a diamond trading center,'' Mr. Rapaport said. ''The profit is in selling the diamonds. The key now is to make the transition from a secretive diamond cutter guild to being a marketing and branding center for high-value diamonds.''
 Before coming to New York, Mr. Barnett worked as a diamond merchant in Antwerp in the 1980's for S. Muller & Sons, a prestigious diamond house owned by his wife's family. With the help of what he described as ''European investors,'' he moved to New York and plunged into the real estate business.
 Today, he is chairman of Extell Development Company and is running seven projects in Manhattan, including the nearly completed 60-story Orion condominium on West 42nd Street, the conversion of the Stanhope Hotel on Fifth Avenue into luxury apartments and the construction of a pair of towers called the Ariel East and West on Broadway near 100th Street. But the 47th Street project provides a connection to his roots.
 He said the project was about preserving ''added-value jobs'' in diamond polishing, jewelry and preserving 47th Street's position as an international trading center for high-quality diamonds, not about trying to revive diamond manufacturing.
 ''Some of the landlords are running scared,'' he said, ''after 30 years of neglecting properties and not dealing with their tenants' and the industry's needs. With the exception of two or three landlords, this building is good for the industry.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Several low-rise buildings in the middle of the block have been bought by Gary Barnett, who plans a tower. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); JEWELERS MATERIAL & LAPIDARY WORK MFG (89%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); JEWELRY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RETAILERS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (70%); MINES & MINING (69%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%) Jewels and Jewelry ; Diamonds; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Jewels and Jewelry 

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Gary Barnett

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); EAST CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (90%); INDIA (73%) New York City; Diamond District (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



274 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: A New Crop Upstate: Electricity From Windmills

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: LOWVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
William and Patricia Burke have lived in their white Colonial-style farmhouse on the edge of the Tug Hill plateau for 36 years. And for 35 of those years they have cursed the winter wind as it whistled through every crack and hole in the house. 
 But this season they welcome the sound of the wind, because it represents their newfound security.
The Burkes' old farmhouse is now surrounded by a forest of 120 huge windmills. Each one, called a wind turbine, is 320 feet tall, about the same height as Big Ben in London or the same length as the football field at Giants Stadium.
 This new wind farm, called Maple Ridge, is already the largest alternative-energy project east of the Mississippi, and a second phase, which will include 75 more windmills, is scheduled to be built this year, starting in the spring. 
 Mr. Burke, 58, has pinned the security of his fifth-generation dairy farm on the seven turbines that he allowed to be built on his 600 acres last fall. Each one will generate an annual lease payment of $5,000 to $10,000, based in part on the electricity generated, that will allow the Burkes to stay on their land after they retire. 
 ''For me, this project is an excellent exit strategy,'' Mr. Burke said. ''Having the towers will allow us, when the time comes, to sell the cows, lease the land and keep the farm.'' 
 The towers can also be said to represent enhanced national security, because they are the kind of project that President Bush has promoted of late to help break the nation's addiction to oil. 
 The 120 windmills are spread out in a jagged 12-mile line through rural Lewis County, leeward of Lake Ontario. Powerful lake-effect winds can generate enough electricity to power about 500 homes from each turbine. 
 The turbines that have changed the Burkes' life have transformed the landscape and the economy of the county, an area where it seems most barns are as swaybacked as an old mare. Environmentalists say the windmills provide a glimpse of what the future of alternative energy could be in the Northeast.
 These new-generation turbines are far larger and more powerful than any others in the region. The blades are 131 feet long, and although they seem to be rotating at a lazy Sunday afternoon clip, they are so large that their tips are actually racing around at 138 miles per hour. 
 When all 195 towers are operating at full capacity, they would generate a total of 320 megawatts of pollution-free electricity, the equivalent of a midsize power plant. 
 Maple Ridge is a symbol of the maturation of wind energy in New York from a demonstration project to a bona fide alternative to fossil fuel-based energy, and it has been accomplished with little help from the federal government. 
 ''The president is now talking about ending our addiction to oil, but he's not following through with the national policies we would need to create a Marshall Plan for renewable energy,'' said Katherine Kennedy, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''We're looking at states like New York to give us the projects that will change the energy picture from carbon to a much cleaner mix.'' 
 Maple Ridge also represents Wall Street's new interest in renewable energy. The company behind the project, Horizon Wind Energy, is owned by Goldman Sachs. The Maple Ridge Wind Farm resulted from a partnership between Horizon and PPM Energy of Portland, Ore. 
 ''The firm is committed to committing capital to environmentally friendly technology and investments, and wind energy is certainly one of them,'' said Neil Auerbach, a managing director at Goldman Sachs, who is involved in the wind project. ''But this investment is by no means propelled solely by these concerns. It was evaluated on its merits.''
 The company declined to discuss the actual costs of the project, but typically, each 1.65 megawatt turbine costs $2.3 million to $2.8 million to build. That would put the cost of the completed Maple Ridge project at somewhere between $450 million and $550 million. That sounds like a lot, but once the turbines are built, fuel costs are zero because the wind is free. 
 According to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, wind is the fastest-growing electricity-generating technology in the world. Wind still accounts for less than 1 percent of the nation's electricity, but wind-generating capacity has tripled over the past five years. 
 Alec G. Dreyer, chief executive of Horizon, said New York was an ideal choice for the wind farm because the state has a growing energy market and an electricity grid that the company can easily hook up to. 
 Besides completing Maple Ridge this year, Horizon is working on projects in windy areas of Clinton and Wyoming Counties and elsewhere in the state. The projects could add 500 megawatts of electricity to the state's power grid. 
 The company said it was staying away from the most obvious wind source in New York, the Long Island shore, because it feared being caught in a battle with residents worried about the visual impact of the turbines.
 New York has plenty of wind resources besides Long Island, Mr. Dreyer said, and it also has an open attitude toward alternative energy that welcomes investment. In 2003, Gov. George E. Pataki set a goal of having 25 percent of the state's energy come from alternative sources by 2013. A utilities surcharge was added to consumers' bills to help start the projects. 
 New Jersey has also taken a chance on wind. Five turbines, owned by Community Energy of Wayne, Pa., on the grounds of the Atlantic County Utility Authority's water treatment plant will generate 7.5 megawatts of electricity this year. 
 Another factor has made upstate New York a particularly good place to build wind farms: The wind turbines are widely seen as an economic bonanza. 
 The only other sizable enterprises in this region are a Kraft Foods plant, a bowling pin factory and dairy farms. But the growing season is short, and many longtime farm families have given up on their dairy operations. Only Amish farmers are moving in, and so far none of them have allowed wind turbines to be built on their farms. 
 But for many other local residents, the towers represent millions of dollars in payments in lieu of taxes to support the schools and local governments. And for property owners who have them, each turbine can represent a new pickup truck, or a child's college education. 
 ''I know of one man who left each of his kids a windmill in his will,'' said Martin J. Beyer, a retired farmer who owns a motel and has two turbines on his land. He said a few local residents, mostly those who do not farm, objected to the turbines, saying they obstructed rural vistas. 
 But they were outnumbered. ''Does anybody pay any attention to electric light poles on the side of the road?'' Mr. Beyer asked, saying, ''That's exactly what windmills are going to be like in a year.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maple Ridge, which has 120 windmills, is the largest alternative-energy project east of the Mississippi.
 William and Patricia Burke agreed to have seven 320-foot-tall windmills built on their 600-acre farm. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)Map of New York shows the location of Lowville: The windmills are spread out in a 12-mile line in Lewis County.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); DAIRY FARMING (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); LAKES (67%) Electric Light and Power; Wind; Windmills; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (57%) Maple Ridge Wind Farm (NY); Horizon Wind Energy; Goldman Sachs Group ; PPM Energy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Anthony Depalma; William (Lowville, NY) Burke; Patricia (Lowville, NY) Burke

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Lowville (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



275 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Budget Restraint Emerges As G.O.P. Theme for 2008

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, March 12 

 BODY:
As prospective Republican presidential candidates search for themes to distinguish their prospective campaigns, and distance themselves from the embattled incumbent in the White House, they appear to be in agreement on what one central issue should be in 2008: Curbing the federal spending that has soared under President Bush.
 For two days before an audience of Southern Republicans here, the party's potential candidates for 2008 called for cutting or slowing federal spending across the board and retooling bedrock entitlement programs -- Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- that have become a drain on the federal treasury. 
They called for a presidential line-item veto and a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution. And with varying nuance, they attacked earmarking, the budget tactic some members of Congress use to channel money to favorite projects, outside scrutiny of the normal budget process.
 ''Yes, these last five years, we've been hit with unexpected challenges: a recession, 9/11, homeland security, the war on terror, Katrina,'' said Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, who is preparing to run in 2008. ''But they're not justification for a one-way ticket down a wayward path of wasteful Washington spending.''
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, another likely candidate, declared: ''We need to pass a line-item veto. But we also should have the willpower to stop this. We have to stop this.'' 
 These attacks on the size of government, and the barely implicit criticisms of how Mr. Bush watched the books these past six years, are a direct appeal to fiscal conservatives who have long been distressed about the growth of spending under Mr. Bush and who are central to the party's presidential nominating process.
 But the issue, if politically potent and revealing of what kind of policies these men might pursue in the White House, is not without risks, particularly for the four United States senators who are thinking of running. Unlike the two soon-to-be-ex-governors who are considering a run for president, these four senators face real-life tests of their commitment to attacking federal spending, and in the case of Mr. Frist, the ability to deliver a budget resolution that is acceptable to conservatives.
 Not surprisingly, none of the potential candidates who talked about cutting spending to 2,000 Republicans at the Southern Republican Leadership Conference here offered much idea about what actually could be cut.
 But back in Washington, where a new budget season has arrived, these senators are likely to find themselves voting on spending restraints in the months ahead that, if popular to this audience, may be politically problematic with a wider audience. Conservatives are pushing, for example, a budget proposal that would produce $650 billion in savings during the next five years, with much of the money coming out of Medicare and Medicaid.
 As it is, a budget resolution due to come to the floor of the Senate this week has been stripped of cuts in Medicare that had been pressed by the White House, a reflection of the conclusion by Congressional leaders that they could not get enough votes to pass such a bill.
 Indeed, last year, in a sign of just how hard it is to make any kind of cuts in spending, Republicans turned to Vice President Dick Cheney to break a tie in the Senate to enact a net $39 billion in cuts.
 And Republicans are divided over whether earmarking should be eliminated, restricted or simply changed so that the process is open to easy public scrutiny. Mr. Frist's choice of words in talking about this issue, in the midst of calling for cutting the size of government and reducing entitlement spending, was revealing: ''No more hidden earmarks,'' he said.
 The other complication is the White House itself. The likely presidential candidates left little doubt about what at least some of them saw as Mr. Bush's complicity in the spending increases that took place during the first six years of his term. ''Our discretionary spending -- taking out Iraq and mandatory spending -- grew 49 percent in four years,'' said Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a likely presidential candidate. 
 But they are not alone in seeing political benefit in returning to the spending issue.
 A Republican close to the White House, who insisted on anonymity in exchange for talking about private discussions, said that Mr. Bush's own menu of spending restraints, along with his call for Congress to pass a line-item veto, reflects in part a political decision to embrace this issue to steady his presidency, and to build his standing with the party's conservative base. 
 Mr. Bush's emphasis on the issue may also reflect an effort by the White House to help Congressional Republicans. Some of them fear that the party's base, which is upset over the growth of government even with Republicans in control of the White House and Congress, may fail to turn out in sufficient numbers to counter an energized Democratic party this November.
 There are ways to talk about reducing the size of government without taking political risks. Senator George Allen of Virginia spoke just as enthusiastically about a line-item veto, along with a balanced-budget amendment, as he did about spending curbs.
 Yet that may not be enough in this environment, given the extent that the federal budget is out of balance and the distress by conservatives over how Republicans have managed the government.
 Spending has been one issue on which some of Mr. Bush's most prominent supporters, among them Grover G. Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, have openly broken with the White House. But there could be no doubt about the power of this issue after the weekend in Memphis.
 One of the most striking moments involved a speech not by a possible presidential candidate, but by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Mr. Graham stood up, speaking softly but urgently, and apologized to the audience for what had happened with spending in this era of Republican rule in Washington.
 ''I am sorry for letting you down when it comes to spending your money,'' Mr. Graham said. ''We're going to turn it around; if we don't, we're going to be in trouble.''
 The audience was silent for a second, and then burst into applause. It was a moment that no doubt did not escape notice of any Republican thinking of running for president in 2008 who was anywhere near that room.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); MEDICARE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); MEDICAID (55%) Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2008; Vetoes (US); Law and Legislation

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Bill (Sen) Frist; John S (Sen) Mccain; George W (Pres) Bush; Adam Nagourney; George (Sen) Allen; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (55%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006



276 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Road to Rebirth Diverges on a Mississippi Bridge

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss. 

 BODY:
At the eastern tip of this city there was once a bridge. Like much of the Mississippi Gulf Coast, it was reduced by Hurricane Katrina to a muddle of concrete and pilings, tumbled over like a giant line of dominos. 
 Everyone wants it rebuilt as soon as possible. But officials on one side of the bridge -- those in Biloxi -- favor a large, multilane structure that can accommodate casino workers and the new horde of gamblers. On the other side, in Ocean Springs, officials want to restore the four-lane drawbridge that once spanned the bay, hoping to keep their French-colonized, tree-lined town the definition of quaint.
The debate over what should replace the Biloxi-Ocean Springs bridge in many ways illustrates the entire rebuilding effort along the Mississippi coast, where cities, drained of resources, infrastructure and people, struggle toward rebirth. 
 Gov. Haley Barbour's rebuilding commission and many small-town officials advocate a planning approach known as New Urbanism, which supports pedestrian friendly, historically themed developments where people of mixed incomes share the same neighborhoods and are closely linked by public transportation. Given a rare chance to redesign their landscapes, many residents and officials want to see towns designed around trolley cars, pedestrian walkways and open spaces. 
 ''I want us to be a more walkable town,'' said Lou Rizzardi, an alderman from the nearby beachfront city of Pass Christian. ''We don't have sidewalks, we don't have gutters, we want our downtown to be more dense. This may be a pipe dream, but it's the way we used to live.''
 But critics here mock New Urbanism as being impractical and ignorant of the preference of most Americans for privacy over community, and as creating towns that often look like film sets rather than real communities.
 ''A lot of people there are more into the arts and come from other areas,'' said Mayor A. J. Holloway of Biloxi, speaking of Ocean Springs and its preference for a smaller bridge with a bicycle lane. ''And I don't see people riding bikes 85 feet in the air.''
 Officials from Biloxi and Gulfport, robbed by the hurricane of their fishing docks and antebellum homes and emboldened by new legislation that permits gambling on land, believe their cities' futures lie in rows of casinos, high-rise condominiums and a new multilane bridge. Officials deride the idea of trolleys replacing cars on busy roadways and suggest that such ideas are preferred by people who come from, as they say here, ''away.''
 Pass Christian, once a haven for retirees and people with second homes, is now warily weighing offers from the condominium developers it once avoided, as all the town's businesses have been swept away, leaving its coffers empty. 
 Other places are equally desperate; Waveland and Bay St. Louis, neighboring cities with distinct cultures and histories, are considering a merger. 
 And as with New Orleans, which Mississippi residents say has overshadowed the narrative of their plight, the struggle to rebuild here is also a struggle for a future identity, as the culture, physical landscape and industries of the region face inevitable change. 
 The historically rich, laid back, slightly tawdry Mississippi coast has always stood apart from the otherwise largely provincial state. With its French colonial history, the coast has carried few of the historical burdens wrought by cotton plantations, slaves and the civil rights movement. 
 The state government, which has long encouraged local control, is not poised to dictate a uniform rebuilding agenda for its coastal region, even though state planners may support the smaller approach. And so commerce seems poised to drive the decision making instead.
 ''The coastal communities are different, but they are linked, and that is the complexity of it,'' said Charles Reagan Wilson, the director of the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi. ''But it is going to be difficult for each town to preserve the character they have had before Katrina. The model for the future of the coast to me seems to be the Florida Panhandle, with condos and things like that. That is the private, economic, capitalistic future.''
 The devastation of the coast here remains shocking to the uninitiated eye; towns where people have clearly worked night and day just to remove debris look as though they were hit by a hurricane six days ago, rather than six months. 
 In Pass Christian, where nary a house is standing and bedsheets are still threaded through the trees, the order to boil water only just ended. Its municipal government, like many in the region, is housed in a doublewide trailer. 
 Biloxi is still a tangle of crumbling buildings, bent signs and silent streets. But all that changes in the parking lots of the three casinos that have opened on land, where drivers are lucky to find a space. Crowds appear within the casinos from seemingly nowhere, as if planted in place, with people holding cocktails and clutching room keys that double as casino entry cards in the cavernous, smoke-fogged halls.
 ''Biloxi is going to be high-rises and condos,'' said Duncan McKenzie, president of the Chamber of Commerce and a vice president of the Isle of Capri casino. ''People refer to what happened here as a tragic opportunity.'' Even before the storm, casinos were Biloxi's second-largest industry after the military, employing 15,000 people and generating $19.2 million in taxes.
 But now there are few places for the lowest-paid casino workers to live. In the western part of Biloxi, the mom-and-pop motels and low-income apartment buildings were destroyed, and developers have been buying up land for large condominiums, Mayor Holloway said. 
 ''Low- and moderate-income housing was a problem before Katrina,'' Mr. Holloway said. ''And it is an even bigger problem now. We are working with the casinos to see if they are interested in developing housing for their workers.''
 In light of these many problems, Mr. Holloway, casino executives and others believe that it is in the best interest of Biloxi to have a functioning bridge that links workers to homes, gamblers to casinos and the city to the rest of the coast as soon as possible.
 The State Department of Transportation wants to build an eight-lane, 85-foot-tall bridge to replace the decimated four-lane structure, paid for with federal funds unleashed after Hurricane Katrina. 
 But officials in Ocean Springs deplore the notion of a large bridge dumping traffic into its tree-lined town. They prefer a bridge half the size, with a bicycle lane. The chasm between Ocean Springs and Biloxi in some ways can be accounted for by the relative damage of each. The beachfront homes in Ocean Springs -- one of the oldest cities in America, founded in 1699 -- took a beating. But its downtown was more or less unscathed, which has led the town to not only survive, but flourish.
 Once a quiet bedroom community with a number of artists, upscale women's sportswear shops and picturesque restaurants and candy stores, the town is now dotted with new restaurants and bars that are filled with volunteers, contractors and neighbors who do not want to take the long route into Biloxi now that the bridge is out. Just as important, it has the one thing that separates the surviving towns from the sinking ones: a still-standing Wal-Mart.
 ''We've been a place for people to escape,'' said Donovan Scruggs, the planning and development director in Ocean Springs. ''Pre-Katrina, there was not much of an after-7 crowd downtown. Now we have a vibrant little nightlife downtown. Our revenues increased 50 percent in November over the same period in 2004.''
 There is a similar chasm between Waveland and Bay St. Louis, which are considering the merger. Bay St. Louis has fewer resources than Waveland and about half its budget, and it sees a future more oriented toward tourism. Waveland, which is resisting the merger concept, wants to rebuild its downtown like a miniature French Quarter.
 ''I am hard-pressed to see where combining would benefit the people of Waveland,'' said Mayor Tommy Longo of Waveland, as he ate a barbecue sandwich recently in City Hall (yes, a trailer), trying to get through another day of negotiating insurance claim complaints, Army Corps of Engineer problems and out-of-state deliveries. 
 Residents say they just want their old town back, name and all. 
 ''Waveland has always been Waveland,'' said Cindy Peterson, folding laundry in her government trailer. ''We should go back to what it was. Nothing like Katrina will happen again in my lifetime anyway.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials in Ocean Springs, Miss., want to rebuild the bridge between their city and Biloxi as it was before Hurricane Katrina: a four-lane drawbridge. Biloxi officials favor a larger structure to accommodate casino workers and gamblers. Left, the Palace Casino Resort in Biloxi. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 The bridge between Biloxi and Ocean Springs, Miss., remains in pieces six months after Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Mississippi highlighting Biloxi: Biloxi officials say the city's future lies in casinos and condominiums. (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (84%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CASINOS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); FILM (62%); CONDOMINIUMS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Bridges and Tunnels; Area Planning and Renewal; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (58%) Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (95%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Mississippi; Biloxi (Miss); Ocean Springs (Miss); Gulfport (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



277 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Bid to Lure Films Works So Well, It's Nearly Broke

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Spurred by tax credits from the city and the state, the film and television industry has become the fastest-growing employment source in New York City, creating 10,000 jobs over the last year and pressuring California to consider similar incentives.
 The industry has grown so quickly since the incentives, which provide a 15 percent credit on much of a production's expenses, began in 2004 that city officials are now considering reining them in. Officials are concerned that they are too costly and often going to productions like ''The Sopranos'' that were already being filmed in New York.
Since 2002, the number of production shooting days in the city has more than doubled and the number of television pilots rose to 14 in 2005 from one the year before, according to the city. Now New York even occasionally stands in for other cities. Martin Scorsese's coming film ''The Departed'' is set in Boston but was mostly shot last year in New York. 
 But the good news for the city's film industry is a mixed blessing for the city's treasury. In 13 months, the city has exhausted the $50 million it had allotted for four years' worth of tax credits for the industry, while the state has used up most of the $125 million it has allotted over five years. It is not clear if new business spurred by the program is making up the difference.
 State officials want to increase financing for the credits, but city officials, concerned at the overruns, are now seeking to limit the tax breaks. Under the city's proposal, television shows would get the credit for no more than three years, while there would be a cap to the overall city funds made available each year, according to an aide to of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's who spoke on condition of anonymity because revisions to the plan were still being negotiated.
 One concern is that ''The Sopranos'' and the three ''Law and Order'' series have received nearly a quarter of the tax credits, the aide said.
 The prospect of limiting the tax credits in New York has alarmed producers, studio executives and state legislators from New York City. They say states like New Jersey are now offering competitive tax credits of their own, leading to the kind of gamesmanship between states more typically seen for manufacturing plants. 
 ''First of all, the 'Law and Order' franchise single-handedly supported production in New York City when there was virtually no one else here,'' Jeff Zucker, chief executive of the NBC Universal Television Group, said in an interview on Friday. ''To penalize them because they were holding up their end of the bargain long before anyone else seems patently unfair. In addition, there is another state next door that is begging for the 'Law and Order' productions.''
 Michael N. Gianaris, a Democratic state assemblyman from Queens, home to the Kaufman Astoria Studios, said, ''It doesn't make any sense whatsoever. The city's position is, 'If it ain't broke, let's break it.' ''
 In a March 1 letter to Josh Sirefman, the chief of staff for Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, Ed Lammi, the executive vice president of production at Sony Picture Television, wrote, ''If there were an interruption in that tax credit program, it would severely affect our plans to shoot a show in N.Y.''
 That New York is in a position to consider cutting back the incentives reflects a remarkable turnabout for an industry that was struggling locally just a few years ago.
 Signature New York shows like ''Seinfeld'' used to almost always be shot in Los Angeles or somewhere more bucolic like Vancouver. The 1996 Jackie Chan picture ''Rumble in the Bronx'' was notable because its version of the Bronx was nestled among Canadian mountains. 
 Now, local studios are prospering. Silvercup Studios in Queens, where ''The Sopranos'' is shot, recently announced a $1 billion expansion plan that would create a sprawling new complex called Silvercup West in Long Island City.
 Of New York City's 3 million private-sector jobs, roughly 100,000 are in the film and television industry, according to the city's estimates, and it pumps $5 billion into the city's economy annually. 
 This month, the state's Office of Economic Affairs said that New York City's job growth of nearly 2 percent over the last year was led by a 6.7 percent job growth in motion picture and video production and 9.2 percent job growth in radio and television broadcasting. Officials in Los Angeles are even considering sweetening their own incentives to counter New York's success. 
 Mayor Bloomberg has won praise among budget experts for his fiscal discipline as he grapples with swelling pension and health care obligations. And his administration says that it does not want to eliminate the incentives, only contain them. 
 ''All I can tell you at this point is there are a wide variety of options that are being considered,'' said Julianne Cho, assistant commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. ''There are a lot of ideas being considered.'' 
 The incentive program gives productions that do at least 75 percent of their filming in New York a state tax credit equal to 10 percent of a production's expenses, with the exception of the salaries of the actors and directors. The city added an additional 5 percent. People familiar with the program said it appeared to recoup its costs by generating new economic activity, but city officials declined to detail such figures.
 Though $25 million per year was budgeted by the state over five years and $12.5 million per year for the city over four years, the money was drawn from future years, quickly draining all the allotted funds. 
 In January, Governor Pataki proposed making the program permanent and increasing its annual financing to $30 million, and allowing the city the option of budgeting $30 million a year as well. 
 State Senator Martin J. Golden, a Brooklyn Republican, said the Senate wanted to abolish any ceiling on the program. 
 ''We've been able to take an industry that was leaving New York in droves and not only retain it, but build it with thousands of jobs,'' he said. 
 City officials are considering increasing the annual amount budgeted for the program, but because they want to put a ceiling on annual spending, their changes could shrink the city's incentives. Industry executives say that could force productions to go elsewhere, given the local costs. 
 ''Historically, New York would have been last from a cost perspective even if it was first in the hearts of our creative executives,'' Mr. Zucker said. 
 But the credits have helped lure the industry. After the credit program was instituted, NBC hired its first senior television production executive for New York, Katie O'Connell. She has developed three pilots, including one based on Candace Bushnell's ''Lipstick Jungle,'' and a sketch comedy series teaming a ''Saturday Night Live'' star, Tina Fey, with Alec Baldwin.
 Lisa Rawlins, a senior vice president of Warner Bros., said in a March 1 letter to the mayor that productions like ''The Departed,'' the Scorsese film, would have gone to Toronto were it not for the program. ''These projects are directly tied to the ability of your city to compete,'' she wrote. An expenditure breakdown of ''The Departed'' said the studio spent more than $23 million over 75 days in the city, including $647,372 on hotels, $218,635 on car rentals and $11.8 million paying local workers, including carpenters and electricians. 
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, said, ''Hollywood has learned the lessons that manufacturers did.'' Giving tax credits to a vibrant industry like entertainment can pay off more than other incentive programs do. 
 ''In manufacturing, the jobs often don't materialize,'' he added. ''Here, it looks like it actually brought productions back to the city.'' 
 Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles has taken note. In a statement last year, he cited the incentive programs in New York, Illinois and New Mexico in calling for more incentives in California. ''We cannot stand idly by while other states enact incentives to lure jobs away from California,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Production trucks on the location in Queens. The city estimates that 100,000 people in New York work in the film and TV industry.
 Christmas lights installed in Queens last week in preparation for shooting a film scene. Moviemakers have flocked to New York recently. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B8)Chart: ''Lots of Action''After dipping early in the decade, location filming in New York City has rebounded.Graph tracks total days of filming on location in New York City since 1993.(Source by Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); FILM (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CHRISTMAS (59%); MOVIE FILMING (58%) Motion Pictures; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Hiring and Promotion; Television; Labor; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



278 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Open Minority Aid To All Comers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Facing threats of litigation and pressure from Washington, colleges and universities nationwide are opening to white students hundreds of thousands of dollars in fellowships, scholarships and other programs previously created for minorities.
 Southern Illinois University reached a consent decree last month with the Justice Department to allow nonminorities and men access to graduate fellowships originally created for minorities and women.
In January, the State University of New York made white students eligible for $6.8 million of aid in two scholarship programs also previously available just for minorities. Pepperdine University is negotiating with the Education Department over its use of race as a criterion in its programs. 
 ''They're all trying to minimize their legal exposure,'' Susan Sturm, a law professor at Columbia University, said about colleges and universities. ''The question is how are they doing that, and are they doing that in a way that's going to shut down any effort or any successful effort to diversify the student body?'' 
 The institutions are reacting to two 2003 Supreme Court cases on using race in admissions at the University of Michigan. Although the cases did not ban using race in admissions to higher education, they did leave the state of the law unclear, and with the changing composition of the court, some university and college officials fear legal challenges. 
 The affected areas include programs for high schools and graduate fellowships. 
 It is far too early to determine the effects of the changes on the presence of minorities in higher education and how far the pool of money for scholarships and similar programs will stretch. 
 Firm data on how many institutions have modified their policies is elusive because colleges and institutions are not eager to trumpet the changes. At least a handful are seeking to put more money into the programs as they expand the possible pool of applicants.
 Some white students are qualifying for the aid. Last year, in response to a legal threat from the Education Department, Washington University in St. Louis modified the standards for an undergraduate scholarship that had been open just to minorities and was named for the first African-American dean at the university. This year, the first since the change, 12 of the 42 first-year recipients are white.
 Officials at conservative groups that are pushing for the changes see the shift as a sign of success in eliminating race as a factor in decision making in higher education. 
 ''Our concern is that the law be followed and that nobody be denied participation in a program on account of skin color or what country their ancestors came from,'' said Roger Clegg, president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity, which has been pressing institutions on the issue. 
 ''We're not looking at achieving a particular racial outcome,'' Mr. Clegg added. ''And it's unfortunate that some organizations seem to view the success or failure of the program based simply on what percentage of students of this color or that color can participate.''
 Advocates of focused scholarships programs like Theodore M. Shaw, president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., challenge the notion that programs for minority students hurt whites. ''How is it that they conclude that the great evil in this country is discrimination against white people?'' Mr. Shaw asked. ''Can I put that question any more pointedly? I struggle to find the words to do it because it's so stunning.'' 
 Mr. Shaw said protecting scholarships and other programs for minorities was ''at the top of our agenda.''
 Travis Reindl, director of state policy analysis at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, said hundreds, if not thousands, of scholarship and fellowship programs historically used race as a criterion. Mr. Reindl estimated that as many as half of the four-year colleges in the United States had reviewed or modified such programs.
 Neither the Justice Department nor Education Department, nor organizations on all sides of the discussions over affirmative action, have gathered statistics tracking the trend. In January, The Chronicle of Higher Education named more than 12 institutions that had made the changes. 
 Mr. Clegg said that since 2003 his center had sent 200 challenges to colleges and universities over race-based scholarships and other programs, warning of legal action if changes were not made. He said more than 150 institutions had broadened their programs in response.
 The two Supreme Court affirmative action decisions that are worrying the institutions involved the University of Michigan. In Grutter v. Bollinger, the court upheld the use of race in admissions decisions at the law school. It found that there had been a ''highly individualized, holistic review of each applicant's file'' in which race could be properly considered. 
 In Gratz v. Bollinger, the court struck down the use of race in undergraduate admissions, finding that those applications used a scoring system that should not have awarded points based on race. 
 ''When the Gratz and Grutter decisions came down, that was really kind of a mixed bag,'' Mr. Reindl said. ''It's still a very murky environment, and it's also a very contentious environment.''
 The effects of the decisions, in June 2003, were almost immediate. After the summer of 2003, Princeton closed a seven-week program for minority high school juniors. Begun in 1985, it focused on strengthening skills in economics, statistics and other areas. Princeton restarted the program, the Woodrow Wilson School Junior Summer Institute, last summer. Now it is open to all students showing an interest in public service and commitment to ''cross-cultural issues.''
 Changes have also come at institutions like St. Louis University, which widened a scholarship program for blacks in 2004 to include all students and named it after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
 Three years ago, Williams College opened a graduate fellowship and a prefreshman program to all races. Officials at several institutions and scholars emphasized that scholarships and fellowships open to all students could, if thoughtfully created, still achieve diversity in classrooms and on faculties. 
 ''The objective is still to make good kids excellent,'' said William F. Elliott, vice president for enrollment at Carnegie Mellon University, which three years ago broadened a full-tuition scholarship for minority students and a summer program in mathematics and science for minority high school students.
 Now, the university also considers diversity to include other factors like whether students are the first in their families to attend college. 
 A big question is how far the money can stretch. At SUNY, officials have requested additional New York State money for the two modified fellowships, the Empire State Minority Honors Scholarship Program, which distributes $649,000 a year to 898 students, and the Underrepresented Graduate Fellowship Program, which distributes $6.2 million in financial aid to 500. 
 More money would make it possible, said Peter D. Salins, provost of the SUNY system, to offer more fellowships and help offset any potential adverse effects on minority students.
 ''All over America, universities are adjusting their policies, and this is simply our instance'' of doing so, Mr. Salins said. At Southern Illinois in Carbondale, the modifications in the consent decree affect three graduate fellowships involving 85 students that offered tuition plus stipends. At Washington University in St. Louis, which modified the undergraduate fellowship named for the former black dean, John P. Ervin, officials said they remained committed to increasing diversity. ''In some ways, this makes our objectives more difficult,'' said James E. McLeod, director of the scholarship program and dean of the college of arts and sciences at the university. ''It will take more time, it will take more creativity.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about colleges and universities that have opened minority scholarships and other programs to whites included an erroneous reference from Princeton to eligibility for a seven-week summer program. It is for college juniors, not high school juniors.
A front-page article on Tuesday about colleges and universities that have opened minority scholarships and other programs to whites included an erroneous reference from Princeton to eligibility for a seven-week summer program. It is for college juniors, not high school juniors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (84%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%) Colleges and Universities; Minorities (US); Scholarships and Fellowships; Suits and Litigation; Affirmative Action; Admissions Standards; Discrimination; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%) University of Michigan

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



279 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Deal Takes Capital One To New Turf 

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
With its $14.6 billion acquisition of the North Fork Bancorporation, Capital One is looking less like a credit card company and more like a traditional bank. But will Wall Street approve?
 For years, the success of Capital One, the country's largest stand-alone credit card issuer, rested on its uncanny ability to innovate, from new products (like zero-interest balance transfers) to new marketing (like a series of clever Viking ads).
Now, in retail banking, success will depend on its unproven ability to integrate. 
 The deal, which was announced yesterday, vaults Capital One to one of the top 10 banks in the nation in terms of deposits and gives it a large presence in the Northeast. The combined company will have deposits of more than $84 billion, a managed- loan portfolio of more than $143 billion and 655 branch locations.
 As a card company, the deposits will provide the company a cheaper form of financing at a time when interest rates are high and competition has squeezed profits.
 But as a bank, Capital One remains second-tier: it will not even be within striking distance of bigger rivals like Bank of America and J. P. Morgan Chase, which have far more locations and higher deposit levels.
 And Capital One's last big retail bank deal is still unfinished business. 
 Last fall, Capital One, which is based in McLean, Va., spent $4.9 billion to buy Hibernia National Bank, gaining its first foothold in the retail banking business with 300 branches in fast-growing areas of Louisiana and Texas. But shortly before the deal was to close, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita ravaged the Gulf Coast.
 Not only did the storms delay the transaction, they added disaster cleanup and recovery to an already long laundry list of post-merger tasks. 
 ''We didn't plan to make another acquisition in such a short time frame after acquiring Hibernia,'' Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's chief executive, said in an interview yesterday. ''A lot of planets were aligning to make this deal happen.'' 
 ''Clearly, we have a lot on our plate right now. It will be our highest priority to complete the integration of these banks,'' he added. ''We know it is going to be a lot of work.'' 
 John A. Kanas, who orchestrated 14 acquisitions during his long tenure as North Fork's chairman and chief executive, will join Capital One to oversee the integration and banking operations of the newly combined company. 
 But even with seasoned managers and the right strategy, some analysts wonder if the timing is right. ''It is a doable deal, but there is a lot of risk pulling it off,'' said David A. Hendler, an analyst at CreditSights, an independent research firm based in New York. ''It's a heavy chore for Capital One and North Fork.'' 
 Shares of Capital One fell nearly 8 percent, or $6.82, to $83.10, their sharpest single-day decline since July 2003. Shares of North Fork, which is based in Melville, N.Y., jumped 15 percent, or $3.80, to $29.20.
 Under the agreement, North Fork shareholders will receive cash or stock valued at $31.18 a North Fork share, which represents a 22.8 percent premium over the closing price on Friday of North Fork shares.
 The high premium may lead other regional banks to consider putting themselves up for sale.
 The North Fork deal is part of a strategy that Capital One has been pursuing for years. Facing higher borrowing and marketing costs and a slowdown in the industry's overall growth, nearly all other stand-alone credit card companies have been snapped up by larger competitors. But Mr. Fairbank has long maintained that it was better to remain independent and broaden its reach.
 ''I have believed that the winning formula in banking is to compete nationally in national-scale businesses, and to compete locally in local businesses,'' Mr. Fairbank said. ''And to know the differences.''
 Capital One, which has excelled at reaching consumers through direct mail, plans to take advantage of North Fork's branches as well as its expertise in attracting small and midsize business customers. 
 It also hopes to put its marketing muscle behind its products, hoping to ramp up sales of mortgages and home equity loans. Starting sometime next year, all North Fork branches will adopt the more widely recognized Capital One name.
 ''Part of the value of Capital One was the marketing machine,'' Mr. Kanas said in an interview yesterday. ''To do this without a consolidated brand would be, frankly, silly.'' 
 With so little overlap between the companies, Capital One expects the deal to start generating pretax benefits of about $275 million in 2008. 
 Besides potential integration problems, there are other risks. For North Fork, the deal is the final chapter for the small Long Island community bank that transformed itself through a series of acquisitions into one of the New York market's major players. Over the last decade or so, it has been highly successful. But with a flat yield curve in interest rates, a slowdown in the mortgage market, and intense New York area competition, its long-term prospects have recently been dim. 
 That is perhaps why Mr. Kanas put North Fork up for sale. And it is also why it may be a risky bet that Capital One can help change course. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); MERGERS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (96%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corp; North Fork Bancorp Inc

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (96%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

PERSON: RICHARD D FAIRBANK (58%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



280 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Unity in the European Market, Except When It Comes to Takeovers

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 13 

 BODY:
Mario Monti knows something about blocking deals. While serving as the European Union's antitrust enforcer in 2001, Mr. Monti torpedoed General Electric's takeover of Honeywell -- a brash move that made Brussels a new force in the global markets.
 Mr. Monti acted in the name of Europe's single market, but the recent rash of blocked deals are different: making it seem as if Europe is splintering into a familiar collection of feuding national interests.
Now back in academia in his native Italy, Mr. Monti argues that there is a silver lining in this protectionist cloud. More and more European chief executives, he said, are pursuing cross-border mergers, and are refusing to buckle to the inevitable resistance from political leaders.
 ''A few years ago, if a European regulator had raised two eyebrows or even one, the chief executive would have backed off,'' Mr. Monti said. ''The courage wasn't there. Now, in a sense, the king is naked.'' 
 Naked, perhaps, but not without a shield: European governments have thrown up a raft of barriers in recent weeks to foreign takeovers of their companies, including hastily drafted antitakeover laws, shotgun corporate marriages and populist appeals to national security.
 The furious activity is producing a collision between a business sector bent on greater integration and enhanced competitiveness and a wave of protectionism that is rolling across Europe, raising fears of dire consequences for Europe's economic growth and even the credibility of the euro.
 ''You could make the case that this is part of a big battle, which is going to get worse,'' said Charlie McCreevy, the European commissioner for the internal market and services -- a job also once held by Mr. Monti.
 As Europe's capitals trade accusations, attention is shifting to Brussels, where the European Commission will soon decide whether to take France, Spain and Poland to court on accusations of illegally blocking foreign takeovers of two power companies and, in the Polish case, a bank.
 ''The danger is, if we're not very frank and strong about this, there will be tit-for-tat arrangements,'' Mr. McCreevy, a former Irish finance minister, said in an interview. ''You get into a situation where it becomes an epidemic.''
 Europe's biggest economies are particularly susceptible to protectionism these days, he said, because of their debilitating combination of sluggish economic growth, high unemployment and the fear of losing jobs to lower-wage countries in Eastern Europe and Asia.
 Protectionist winds are not just blowing in Europe, of course. Political opposition in the United States scuttled a bid for Unocal last summer by the Chinese oil company Cnooc, and last week, a Congressional outcry over the prospect of a state-owned Dubai company managing terminal operations at six American ports forced the company, DP World, to divest itself of those holdings.
 Compounding the worries in Europe, two of the deals involve formerly state-owned utilities. Europeans have felt vulnerable about their energy supply since January, when the Continent's largest supplier, Russia, briefly switched off the flow of natural gas to Ukraine.
 ''Let's be frank,'' said Mr. McCreevy, whose blunt style occasionally gets him into trouble in diplomatic Brussels, ''there are many member states willing, wishing to frustrate the workings of the market.''
 Singling out France, which also passed a decree protecting 11 industrial sectors because of their putative strategic value, Mr. McCreevy said, ''I believe they are mistaken and misguided in policies.''
 Yet for all that, he noted that the number of cross-border deals in Europe so far this year was at the highest level since 2000. And the deal making is spreading into industries, like electricity and power, that used to be the sole preserve of national governments. Although many of these companies have been privatized, they remain jealously guarded by national regulators.
 Spain is scrambling to prevent a takeover of Endesa by the German power giant E.On. The French government orchestrated a snap merger of two utilities, publicly traded Suez and state-controlled Gaz de France, to fend off a potential takeover bid by Enel of Italy.
 With electricity, telecommunications and other markets being liberalized in Europe, analysts argue that in the long run, countries will be powerless to stop foreign takeovers of their assets. These recent moves, they say, represent the twilight of the battle, not the dawn.
 ''This is a rear-guard action by governments which are not used to these assets being contested,'' said Daniel Gros, the director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. ''Even if E.On is not able to take over Endesa this time, they can always try a year from now.''
 That would be cold comfort to E.On. The company, which is based in Dusseldorf, Germany, made an all-cash bid of 29.1 billion euros ($34.7 billion) for Endesa, trumping a previous hostile offer by Gas Natural of Spain. The Spanish government, which favors the domestic bid, promptly passed a law giving regulators the power to veto foreign takeovers of utilities because they are strategic assets.
 ''We knew, of course, that the Spanish government would support the local company, but that, as part of Europe, one would have to accept the rules,'' Wulf H. Bernotat, the chief executive of E.On, said at a news conference last week.
 Germany's adherence to those rules is not absolute either. A statute known as the Volkswagen law prohibits unwanted suitors from acquiring control of the carmaker. It is being challenged in a European court.
 Mr. Bernotat brushed off the most common objection to its acquisition of Endesa: that putting a major Spanish utility into German hands could jeopardize the country's power supply. He noted that Endesa would remain an independent unit within E.On, which also owns Ruhrgas and a stake in Gazprom of Russia, and is Europe's largest power and gas supplier.
 ''I can only say that E.On is active in 25 countries, and there, we have been seen as a reliable supplier,'' he said. ''We will not only maintain, but improve, the supply sources.''
 E.On said it would wait for the European Commission to decide how to handle Spain. Mr. McCreevy has written to the Spanish government, asking it to explain the takeover law passed last month. If he is not satisfied by the response, he will sue Spain in the European Court of Justice for infringing on matters that fall under the jurisdiction of the commission.
 Brussels is closer to filing a case against Poland for demanding that an Italian bank, UniCredito, divest itself of the Polish holdings of its recently acquired subsidiary, HVB Group of Germany. Neelie Kroes, who is Mr. Monti's successor as antitrust enforcer, had approved the merger.
 The most prominent and potentially difficult case is that of France -- not least because Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has made building national champions part of his economic policy. The French law putting several industries off limits to foreign takeovers was drafted last summer after rumors that PepsiCo was interested in buying the yogurt giant, Group Danone.
 The Villepin government has been asked by Brussels to account for its actions after rumors surfaced that Enel, the Italian utility, was preparing a bid for Suez. Enel complained to Brussels that senior French officials intimidated a French water company, Veolia, from helping Enel with a bid.
 Mr. McCreevy said he had little use for the ''strategic asset'' defense, whether it applies to natural gas or yogurt.
 As a finance minister, he recalled: ''Everything was of a strategic nature, and a country couldn't do without it -- telecom, airlines. We all had to have our own airline, and we couldn't possibly open up the market for airlines.''
 Taking countries to court is a time-consuming process, Mr. McCreevy conceded. By the time the court rules, the imperatives that drove a particular deal might well have changed. Ms. Kroes has the power to act more speedily -- which is why her predecessor, Mr. Monti, was able to block the G.E.-Honeywell deal and extract antitrust concessions from Microsoft.
 Decisive action by the European Union would soothe investors. Europe continues to attract foreign money -- notably, to German real estate -- but some investors said they had been shaken by the recent events. 
 ''If protectionism in Europe isn't controlled, then the attractiveness of investing in European equities would diminish,'' said Peter Montagnon, the head of investment affairs at the Association of British Insurers. ''There is a risk that people tend to follow bad examples quickly.''
 Still, analysts said these deals, merely by putting the companies into play, could lead to changes. The next time Endesa's management negotiates with its union, for example, it can raise the specter of a German takeover to extract a better wage deal. 
 To merge Gaz de France with Suez, the French government has had to swallow a reduction in its ownership stake. 
 ''Suez-Gaz de France could end up being owned by hedge funds,'' Mr. Gros of the Center for European Policy Studies said. ''That is already a concession by the government.''
 As president of Bocconi University in Milan, Mr. Monti can watch the battle for open markets play out on multiple fronts. The Italian central bank stubbornly resisted foreign takeovers of its banks, even as the government protested France's efforts to thwart acquisitive Italian companies.
 Yet Mr. Monti, who brought one of Europe's first cases against a country -- Portugal -- for trying to block a cross-border deal, said he was confident that business would continue to push the envelope.
 ''When people will look back in 10 or 20 years,'' he said, ''maybe this will turn out to be the defining moment when the economy took the pushing role, the driver's seat, in integrating Europe.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charlie McCreevy (Photo by Gael Turine for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Cross-Border Deals Sinking on Protectionist Wave''Some governments seem to be standing in the way of acquisitions by companies of other nations. The 10 largest cross-border deals since 2000 were completed with relative ease.DEALS BEING CHALLENGEDDATE COMPLETED: In negotiationsTARGET: Endesa (Spain)ACQUIROR: E On (Germany)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: $ 34.8DATE COMPLETED: In negotiationsTARGET: Gaz de France+ (France)ACQUIROR: Suez (France)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 39.6DATE COMPLETED: 11/23/05TARGET: HVB Group** (Germany)ACQUIROR: Unicredito Italiano (Italy)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 18.310-LARGEST DEALS COMPLETED/PENDING SINCE 2000DATE COMPLETED: In negotiationsTARGET: O2 (Britain)ACQUIROR: Telefonica (Spain)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: $ 31.7DATE COMPLETED: In negotiationsTARGET: Arcelor (Luxembourg)ACQUIROR: Mittal Steel (Netherlands)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 23.4DATE COMPLETED: 8/9/05TARGET: Shell Transport & Trading (Britain)ACQUIROR: Royal Dutch Petroleum (Netherlands)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 74.3DATE COMPLETED: 7/26/05TARGET: Allied Domecq (Britain)ACQUIROR: Goal Acquisitions (France)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 14.4DATE COMPLETED: 11/12/04TARGET: Abbey National (Britain)ACQUIROR: Santander Central Hispano (Spain)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 15.8DATE COMPLETED: 12/29/00TARGET: Airtel (Spain)ACQUIROR: Vodafone AirTouch (Britain)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 14.4DATE COMPLETED: 10/16/00TARGET: Allied Zurich (Britain)ACQUIROR: Zurich Allied (Switzerland)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 19.4DATE COMPLETED: 8/22/00TARGET: Orange (Britain)ACQUIROR: France Telecom (France)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 37.3DATE COMPLETED: 6/19/00TARGET: Mannesmann (Germany)ACQUIROR: Vodafone AirTouch (Britain)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 179.9DATE COMPLETED: 1/12/00TARGET: Orange (Britain)ACQUIROR: Mannesmann (Germany)VALUE, IN BILLIONS*: 32.6*Excluding assumed liabilities.+European Commission is challenging whether this merger is a way to ward off an Italian bid**Although complete, deal is being challenged in Poland.(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); MERGERS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); ZURICH (74%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); SPAIN (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); POLAND (92%); ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



281 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Elections, Reflecting Rightward Course, Buoy Colombian Leader

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, March 13 

 BODY:
While much of South America has veered to the political left, Colombia has taken a sharp turn to the right as voting results Monday showed a right-of-center coalition sweeping congressional elections.
 The elections on Sunday, which gave allies of President Alvaro Uribe overwhelming control of the 268-member Congress, virtually assure him the political leverage to win re-election in May and to push forward important items on his agenda, from continuing the fight against Marxist guerrillas to approving a trade deal with Washington and enacting tough fiscal reforms.
 ''The big winner was President Uribe,'' said Juan Manuel Santos, whose pro-Uribe party, the U Party, did better than any other, winning 20 seats in the Senate. 
 With 94 percent of the votes counted on Monday, 61 percent of the Senate's 102 seats and 57 percent of the 166 seats in the lower house had gone to supporters of Mr. Uribe. Political analysts saw the results as a sign of Colombia's widespread support for Mr. Uribe's two-pronged strategy to pacify the country: aggressively fight the rebels while providing benefits to rightist paramilitary militias to prod them to disarm.
 ''This was support for his security policies,'' Leon Valencia, a political analyst in Bogota, said of the vote. ''People feel they're better off economically. They also see the president's ties to Washington and see them as a secure support.''
 The decisive results were a blow to the opposition Liberal Party, led by former President Cesar Gaviria, who had warned that politicians controlled by paramilitary groups would surge in Sunday's election, endangering Colombia's democratic institutions. The Liberals won only 17 seats, a loss of 12, while another opposition group, the left-leaning Democratic Pole, won 11.
 ''We've found that paramilitarism and easy money played an important role in the election,'' Mr. Gaviria told reporters.
 After pre-election warnings from Colombian lawmakers and the United Nations about the potential for the manipulation of elections by the paramilitaries, parties allied with Mr. Uribe expelled several members of Congress who had been accused of ties to the illegal anti-guerrilla militias. Two of those representatives, Rocio Arias and Eleonora Pineda, who were openly sympathetic to paramilitary commanders, still ran on Sunday but lost.
 ''I had everything it took to get to the Congress,'' Ms. Arias said, weeping as she spoke to La W radio on Monday morning.
 But others who have been accused of having ties to paramilitaries or other underworld figures won. Among the more controversial victories was that of Hector Lopez, son of Enilce Lopez, known as ''The Cat,'' a power broker along the Caribbean coast who is under arrest on money-laundering and other charges.
 While three-quarters of South America's governments are now run by left-leaning governments, Mr. Uribe has shown himself to be a stalwart of the right and an unflagging supporter of the Bush administration, which is not popular in Latin America. The United States has provided Mr. Uribe and his predecessor, Andres Pastrana, about $5 billion in aid to fight rebels and reduce drug crops.
 Opinion polls indicate that Mr. Uribe, a technocrat with a populist streak, is very likely to win a majority in the first round of voting in the May 28 presidential election, beating the leading opposition candidate, Horacio Serpa of the Liberal Party, to secure another four-year term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); ARRESTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (90%); JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (91%) COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



282 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: 2 Asian Automakers Plan Ventures in 2 States Left by U.S. Carmakers

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and JEREMY W. PETERS; Micheline Maynard reported from Lafayette, Ind., for this article, and Jeremy Peters from Detroit.

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, Ind., March 13 

 BODY:
Two states abandoned by American automobile companies are celebrating new investments by Asian automakers. 
 Toyota of Japan, the biggest foreign automobile manufacturer in the United States, and Kia from South Korea -- a complete rookie at car building in America -- both announced new ventures that together would create 3,500 jobs.
Toyota, the world's second-biggest auto company behind General Motors, said Monday that it would invest $230 million in Subaru's plant here to produce 100,000 cars a year starting in 2007. 
 Toyota's move will create 1,000 new jobs at the plant, two hours southeast of Chicago, where it plans to build the Camry sedan, the country's best-selling car. 
 Kia, which is owned by Korea's biggest auto company, Hyundai, said Sunday night that it would build its first American plant in West Point, Ga., on the border with Alabama, at a cost of $1.2 billion. The plant, which is to open in 2008, will employ 2,500 workers, and be capable of producing 300,000 cars a year by 2009.
 The moves come just a few months after G.M. and the Ford Motor Company said they planned to eliminate a total of 30,000 jobs over the next few years and close nearly two dozen plants.
 Despite their cutbacks, investments by foreign companies in the United States over the last 15 years have meant that automotive manufacturing employment has remained essentially flat. 
 Far more than just curiosities or nods to assuage protectionist pressure, foreign manufacturing plants have become an essential part of the American automotive landscape.
 ''The market is changing shape,'' said Ron Pinelli, the president of Autodata, a Woodcliff, N.J., company that specializes in auto industry statistics.
 And states are eager to land the projects. Kia is getting one of the biggest packages in memory from state and local officials -- $410 million in state and local tax credits and other assistance, which translates to about $160,000 a job at the plant.
 The State of Georgia, which is providing $258 million of the incentive package, will buy the land for the plant, build training operations for Kia's work force and provide other tax breaks.
 By contrast, state officials in Alabama drew heavy criticism more than a decade ago when they provided the equivalent of $60,000 a job to attract Mercedes-Benz's first plant in the United States. But that turned out to be a smart bet.
 Alabama has since become a center of automotive production in the South. Toyota, Honda and Kia's parent, Hyundai, have all built factories there, while Nissan built its latest plant in Mississippi, which also bid for the Kia plant. 
 The Kia announcement goes a long way toward offsetting plans by G.M. and Ford to close factories in Georgia, resulting in the loss of 5,000 jobs. State officials said Monday that they had offered Ford a package worth $106 million to keep its plant in Hapeville open.
 ''You're going to win some, and you're going to lose others,'' said Bert Brantley, a spokesman for the Georgia Department of Economic Development. ''We're glad we won this one.'' 
 Given Georgia's incentives, the $14 million that Indiana is putting up to help Toyota seems positively tiny. Likewise, the $230 million that Toyota is spending to build Camrys here is one-quarter of the cost of building a new factory.
 Investing in Indiana also means that Toyota can expand Camry production faster than if it had to wait for a new plant to be built, said Gary L. Convis, executive vice president at Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America. Toyota sold 431,000 Camrys in the United States last year.
 The deal stems from Toyota's purchase last fall of G.M.'s stake in Fuji Heavy Industries, the parent of Subaru, which specializes in vehicles with all-wheel drive. Although Subaru models consistently score well in surveys of automotive quality, its factory here was operating well below its capacity, opening the door for Toyota.
 ''It is a unique opportunity,'' added Seichi Sudo, president of Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America. Speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Sudo added: ''We need to embrace this kind of thing. When a chance comes along, we should take it.''
 Toyota and Subaru are not the first companies to team up, even in Lafayette. Subaru's plant, which opened in 1988, originally was a joint venture with another Japanese company, Isuzu. That venture ended in 2004. The plant also built sport utility vehicles for Honda. Toyota's first venture in the United States, in fact, was with G.M. in Fremont, Calif., and that joint operation continues. 
 The Subaru factory will become Toyota's ninth manufacturing plant in North America, including its truck plant in Princeton, Ind., in the southern tip of the state, and give it the ability to build two million vehicles a year. 
 Toyota plans to open a new truck plant in San Antonio later this year, and it is building another new plant in Woodstock, Ontario.
 Mr. Convis said the Camrys built at the Subaru plant would replace the 55,000 Camrys that Toyota imported from Japan last year to supplement its production in Georgetown, Ky.
 Mr. Convis declined to say whether Toyota planned to build other vehicles at the Indiana plant, which makes the Subaru Outback, Legacy and other vehicles.
 But Toyota plans to add robotic welding technology here called the Global Body Line, which allows it to produce various types of vehicles on the same assembly line, Mr. Convis said. 
 Once dependent on G.M., DaimlerChrysler and parts suppliers like Delphi for automotive jobs, the state could not survive without investments by foreign companies, its governor, Mitch Daniels, said in an interview on Monday.
 He said more than 200 foreign parts makers have followed Toyota and Subaru to the state, investing $29 billion and creating 140,000 jobs. All told, foreign companies employ 17 percent of Indiana's work force.
 Absent their presence, ''We'd be a dust bowl,'' Mr. Daniels said. Mr. Daniels, who has generated debate about a proposal to lease the management of the Indiana Toll Road to a Spanish-Australian partnership, said the state was proud to attract foreign investment.
 ''All we're doing is getting our own money back, which in the past might have been spent on a Sony television or a Volkswagen or in my case, a Foster's beer,'' he said. Mr. Daniels added, ''It's a victory when a state attracts this kind of investment.''
 Yet Mr. Pinelli, of Autodata, questioned whether Toyota would be able to sell all the cars it builds here. And he was skeptical of Kia's ability to double its sales in the United States.
 ''You're going to have a lot of manufacturers dueling it out,'' Mr. Pinelli said. ''Given the competitive environment, it's quite a goal,'' he said.
 Kia officials, however, said they were confident there would be more demand for its vehicles, whose best sellers include the Sedona minivan, the Spectra sedan and the Sorrento crossover vehicle.
 ''There's no reason to say we can't take what should be ours,'' said Len Hunt, chief operating officer for Kia Motors America, the company's sales arm.
 Also on Monday, DaimlerChrysler said it would add a second shift to its assembly plant in Belvidere, Ill. The 1,000 additional workers who will work on the second shift will be current Chrysler workers, many of whom were working at plants where Chrysler slowed its production. The Belvidere plant produces the Dodge Caliber, and in May it will begin building the Jeep Compass.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia, left, and Chung Mong-koo of Hyundai. (Photo by Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 Katsuaki Watanabe, left, is Toyota's president, and Kyoji Takenaka, is president of Subaru. Their companies plan a venture in Indiana. (Photo by Yoshikazu Tsuno/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (98%); AUTOMAKERS (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); SEDANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CLOSINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (61%) Automobiles; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Factories and Industrial Plants; Automobiles; Capital Investment; Production

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Hyundai Corp; Kia Motors Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: MONG-KOO CHUNG (58%); SONNY PERDUE (52%) Micheline Maynard; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Lafayette (Ind); West Point (Ga); South Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



283 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; BIZ; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: The History of the Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
There are some legitimate fears about letting Wal-Mart into the banking business. For much of the 20th century, the federal government didn't allow banking to mix with other forms of commerce, and this prohibition may well have contributed to American economic stability. 
 But the prohibition doesn't exist anymore. Given that, I think there is more to gain from a Wal-Mart bank than there is to lose. To understand why, it helps to review some of the history. 
 At the heart of the Wal-Mart fight is a 50-year-old law that separated banking from other kinds of business. In the 1950's, banking was still a highly local business. So a company that owned a bank could potentially block its rivals from getting a loan. If a five-and-dime owned the only bank in town, it might be able to drive other stores out of business.
 In 1999, however, Congress amended the 1956 law, which has been known as the Bank Holding Company Act. Banking was no longer a local business, and the fears about concentrated bank power seemed outdated. The economy is awash in credit today, as you have probably noticed from your mail. If that five-and-dime - or its modern equivalent, Wal-Mart - denied a loan to a rival, the rival would be able to get a loan elsewhere.
 But Congress did not go all the way in 1999. It allowed only other financial-service companies - some of the most generous campaign donors, it should be noted - to own banks. In fact, the same law that rolled back the 1956 law also retroactively barred Wal-Mart from buying an Oklahoma bank.
 "If we think it's terrible for Wal-Mart or G.M. or Microsoft to own a bank, then we ought to think it's terrible for a Merrill Lynch or an insurance company to own a bank," Peter J. Wallison, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, said. "But we don't."
 The only reason that Wal-Mart can apply for a limited bank charter is a loophole in the law. It allows states to grant charters for something called an industrial loan company. (For more, click here: http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/examinations/supervisory/insights/sisum04/industrial--loans.html)
 Unlike regular banks, an industrial bank can be owned by a company outside financial services. Target runs a credit card with an industrial bank. Since Wal-Mart's proposed charter is narrower than many of the existing ones, it seems likely to be approved by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the federal body that oversees state-chartered industrial banks.
 But all these inconsistencies and loopholes don't seem like they make for a very smart banking policy. Ben S. Bernanke, the new chairman of the Federal Reserve, has recently called for the closing of the loophole on industrial banks, and there is no reason to think he supports the sort of broad policy change that would allow for a Wal-Mart bank. Still, in describing his opposition to the loophole to a Senate committee last month, Mr. Bernanke did a nice job of summarizing the issue.
 "I think the main thing is that Congress should try to be consistent," he said. It should "make sure that the rules that they apply are applied consistently across different types of organizations."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); INSURANCE (66%); APPROVALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



284 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: China's Role Emerges as Major Issue for Southeast Asia

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 13 

 BODY:
When Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visits here on Tuesday, she will touch on Washington's main concern about Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country: that it stick to the path of moderation.
 She will visit an Islamic primary school, one of many schools in Indonesia now supported with American aid, where she will try to soften the image of America as anti-Muslim. She will also give a speech praising Indonesia for its rapid switch to democracy.
 But alongside what often seems like a one-note American agenda of fighting terrorism, Ms. Rice is expected to hear about another overriding interest for both Indonesia and Australia, her next stop. It can be summed up in one word: China. 
 For Indonesia and Australia, China is not just a rising power as it is often described in Washington but has already arrived as the regional power that spreads economic benefit. China is driving intra-Asian economic integration through the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which excludes the United States, and by 2010 the region's trade with China is likely to outstrip its trade with the United States. 
 To sweeten the economic bonds, China has not been too pushy in other areas, stepping politely to address its strategic and diplomatic goals as it seeks the affections of surrounding countries, many of which have had longstanding relations with the United States. 
 ''China has now established itself as the paramount regional power in Southeast Asia,'' said Milton Osborne, a former Australian diplomat and scholar on the region at the Lowy Institute of International Affairs in Sydney. ''This is widely recognized in Southeast Asia, however people choose to express the idea.'' 
 Before leaving Washington, Ms. Rice sounded a cautionary note about China, with a harder edge than much of what is heard in Southeast Asia.
 She warned of China's military buildup. It has been a favorite topic of the Pentagon lately, in particular the development of Chinese submarines designed to block American military access to Taiwan. She spoke of China's possible long-term ''negative'' role, and she seemed to suggest that the United States might be recruiting partners, particularly Australia and Japan, in an effort to contain China, a notion that analysts in the region say seems passe. 
 ''I think all of us in the region, particularly those of us who are longstanding allies, have a joint responsibility and obligation to try and produce conditions in which the rise of China will be a positive force in international politics, not a negative force,'' Ms. Rice said. 
 In Indonesia, China has turned on the charm, transforming a relationship that was once fraught with suspicion into a blossoming economic partnership. China's state energy companies have bought into Indonesian oil and natural gas fields in Java and Papua and are expected to bid on tenders for new power plants. Indonesian exports to China in 2004 increased by 232 percent from the previous year.
 American oil companies have long held operations in Indonesia, and Exxon Mobil, after a protracted battle with successive Indonesian governments, announced Monday that it will develop the significant Cepu oil field on Java. But in a measure of the sensitivities about American corporate interests in nationalistic Indonesia, American businessmen said they expected Ms. Rice to try to avoid any public comment about the deal.
 ''These are some major new important competitors for business,'' James Castle, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia and a longtime business consultant here, said of the Chinese. ''If America wants to maintain a presence, it's going to have to work a lot harder. The Chinese are a big player.'' 
 In Australia, where until a few years ago China was regarded with distrust, its strides are even more pronounced, especially given the hardy alliance between John Howard, Australia's conservative prime minister, and President Bush. 
 The enduring economic boom in Australia is almost solely a result of exporting natural resources to China: huge amounts of iron ore and alumina, and soon natural gas. Australia, which has 30 percent of the world's uranium deposits, is expected to sign a deal next month to sell uranium to China for its nuclear power plants.
 Australia said it made the agreement because China had signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and talks are under way to produce a guarantee that China will not use the uranium for military purposes. 
 Gilding the hard economic gains from its exports to China, Australia is going through a kind of China fever. Mr. Howard pointed out recently that Chinese has become the most widely spoken foreign language in Australia. More Chinese tourists visit Australia now than Japanese, according to recent figures. 
 All this points to a need for Ms. Rice to address the issue during her first visit to the region, where the United States has been long accustomed to being the sole superpower.
 In an important speech about China's power last month, the veteran Singapore ambassador to the United States, Chan Heng Chee, said of her region, ''Many countries are comfortable with the current status quo of asymmetrical multipolarity with the United States as the dominant pole and are not inclined to sever or change existing alliances.''
 But Ms. Chan, who represents America's most stalwart ally in the Southeast Asia, warned, ''Whether these sentiments are retained in the coming decades depends on what the United States does in alliance maintenance and what the U.S. does in foreign and economic policy internationally.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%) Jane Perlez; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (98%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (96%); INDONESIA (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China; Australia; Japan; Indonesia; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



285 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH JOHN MUTTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Earth Science Meets Social Science in Study of Disasters

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
When John C. Mutter was growing up in 1950's Australia, he never once saw a poor person. 
 Not that the family was well off. ''My mother was a single working mother and that was rare in the 1950's,'' he said. ''But there was this generally middle-class veneer to all of Australian society in those days.''
Only years later, he said, as a geophysicist traveling from his native Melbourne to remote northwestern Australia, did he encounter any signs of poverty. 
 There, for the first time, in Broome, he met aboriginal people and was shocked to find fellow citizens who were ill and malnourished. 
 Recollections of those encounters haunted Dr. Mutter through the 1970's and 1980's, as he developed an international reputation for his research on undersea geology. 
 ''All the years I worked as a geophysicist, I wondered about issues like global poverty and what it might take to get people out of it,'' said Dr. Mutter, 57, who is now the deputy director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. ''I kept wondering if there wasn't something we scientists could do about global poverty.'' 
 Now married to Carolyn Mutter and the father of five children, Dr. Mutter said he had spent the last five years trying to answer that question.
 As a result, he said, ''I've come to think that some of the answers to global poverty might be found in the places where the social and hard sciences inform each other.''
 In most parts of the world, people depend on the earth for their livelihoods. ''If we can understand more how the earth functions,'' Dr. Mutter said, ''we can learn how it interacts with human well-being.''

Q. Is it a long reach -- mixing the hard sciences like geology with the social sciences?

A. Not when you're looking at natural disasters, climate and its local manifestation, weather. Disasters exaggerate social ills. They shine a light on them. As a seismologist, when you try to understand how strong a material is, you stress it. You can't calculate its strength from its atomic structure.
 You've got to try to bend it to know where it's strong and weak. I think nature does that with society.
 Over and over, we've seen how a disaster in a poor country is far more lethal than an identical one in a wealthy place. Last year's earthquake in Pakistan took an estimated 100,000 lives. 
 The 1994 Northridge earthquake, which was similar in magnitude and depth, killed only 63. When Hurricane Ivan tore through the Caribbean in 2004, it killed about 2,000 Haitians. Within the United States, Ivan's toll was less than 100.

Q. Why are the differences in disaster tolls so great between rich and poor countries?

A. Poor people live in more fragile dwellings that fall down on them during earthquakes and floods. They live near riverbanks or on steep slopes which are subject to landslides and inundation during flooding. Richer people have the option of living in safer places.
 Plus, they have all kinds of buffers -- building codes, advance warning systems, insurance, first responders. One marker for underdevelopment is the lack of a first response system. When you saw the television reports on the tsunami, you never saw ambulances arriving to help afterward. The main image of 9/11 in New York was that of first responders rushing in to save lives. 
 Another marker is a high death toll. There have been huge landslides in Malibu, though I don't recall any fatalities. There was a landslide in the Philippines a couple of months ago. About 1,000 died. 

Q. By your markers, was New Orleans a first world or a third world disaster?

A. After Katrina, I wondered about that. I started by looking at the death toll. In New Orleans, there are 1,417 bodies that have gone through the morgue and who've been determined to be Katrina victims. That doesn't count people who may have died in auto accidents escaping or those who died after they got to the point of escape. There are 4,000 people still unaccounted for. Some of them probably died. But whether it's 1,417 or 2,000, that's a third world number. Hurricanes that come through Florida take a dozen lives, maybe 20.

Q. Were there any discernible trends among the dead?

A. If you map their addresses, you find the flooded areas were often the poorest, with the highest number of African-Americans. This was a storm that selected for the poor, which is another third world marker.
 Flood vulnerability is one of the classic things that poor people are subjected to. Anyone who's traveled can tell you why. It's because the slums are always around riverbanks, in drained swamps. The poor occupy the bottomlands. In this case, the Lower Ninth Ward or St. Bernard Parish or the areas near the Industrial Canal.
 What's really different about Katrina is that this disaster selected for the old: of all the bodies that have been identified, 64 percent were over 60. And that plays against the fact that the population of the flooded areas, only 15 percent were over 60. 
 In floods, it's usually the very young and the aged who die because survival requires a great deal of physical stamina. Yet in New Orleans, there were almost no deaths among the young -- white or black. One under-5 black child died. In the under-40 population, no white people died. Among the aged, death became a kind of racial equalizer. It was old people, black and white, who ended up in St. Gabriel's morgue. In the flooded areas, if you were white and didn't escape, you were probably old. 

Q. What do you make of skewed demographics of death in Hurricane Katrina?

A. As a scientist, I'm not sure what to make of it. What does this say about how we treat the elderly? It may be -- and we'll have to look into this -- that the flood preferentially took people living on their own.
 These isolated elderly might not have perceived the danger of remaining, or they may have not had the means to escape. It may not have been as callous as younger people saying, ''I'm out of here and to hell with them.'' It just may be that we don't quite appreciate the vulnerability of the elderly.

Q. At the recent meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science you suggested that global warming was an issue linked to global poverty. How do you make that connection?

A. As we've discussed, people in the developing world are more vulnerable to weather events and changing climate than people in wealthier countries. In this country there are people who say, with some justification, So what if it gets to be a half a degree warmer? That's going to happen in the northern latitudes and in the winter. We have the capacity to get through it.
 The problem is that in the tropics and in arid zones, people are already living on the edge. A half-degree change in that part of the world can put very, very vulnerable people over the edge. We're resilient. They are not.

Q. How do you deal with that?

A. By clearly demonstrating how vulnerable some people are. I don't think it's well enough understood.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NATURE VS. THE POOR -- Disasters highlight the weaknesses in society, says John C. Mutter, a geophysicist at Columbia University. Hurricane Katrina was no different. ''This was a storm that selected for the poor,'' he said. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WEATHER (85%); EARTHQUAKES (84%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); HURRICANES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Disasters

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%) Columbia University

PERSON: Claudia Dreifus; John C Mutter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (73%) EARTH (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



286 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; BEHAVIOR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Sleep Disorder? Wake Up and Smell the Savanna

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. FRIEDMAN, M.D.

 BODY:
You would think the country is in the grip of an insomnia epidemic given the rising popularity of sleep drugs. Over the last five years, the use of hypnotics has increased by an astonishing 60 percent, according to IMS Health, a research company.
 Is the state of sleep in America really that bad? 
Disturbed sleep has to be one of the most common complaints in medicine. Not only patients but the general public seems to have a cherished notion of what constitutes a normal night's sleep: seven to eight blissful hours of uninterrupted slumber.
 Many patients tell me they have a sleep problem because they wake up in the middle of the night for a time, typically 45 minutes to an hour, but fall uneventfully back to sleep. Curiously, there seems to be no consequence to this ''problem.'' They are unaffected during the day and have plenty of energy and concentration to go about their lives. 
 Being a psychiatrist, I am always on the lookout for illnesses like depression, anxiety disorders and drug or alcohol abuse that could easily produce sleep disturbance. 
 But I often hear these complaints about interrupted sleep from patients in complete remission from their disorders, making it unlikely that this is a symptom of an untreated medical or psychiatric illness.
 The problem, it seems, is not so much with their sleep as it is with a common and mistaken notion about what constitutes a normal night's sleep. 
 It's a question that Dr. Thomas Wehr at the National Institute of Mental Health asked himself in the early 1990's. He conducted a landmark experiment in which he placed a group of normal volunteers in 14-hour dark periods each day for a month. He let the subjects sleep as much and as long as they wanted during the experiment.
 The first night, the subjects slept an average of 11 hours a night, probably repaying a chronic sleep debt. 
 By the fourth week, the subjects slept an average of eight hours a night -- but not consecutively. Instead, sleep seemed to be concentrated in two blocks. First, subjects tended to lie awake for one to two hours and then fall quickly asleep. Dr. Wehr found that the abrupt onset of sleep was linked to a spike in the hormone melatonin. Melatonin secretion by the brain's pineal gland is switched on by darkness.
 After an average of three to five hours of solid sleep, the subjects would awaken and spend an hour or two of peaceful wakefulness before a second three- to five-hour sleep period. Such bimodal sleep has been observed in many other animals and also in humans who live in pre-industrial societies lacking artificial light.
 Carol Worthman, an anthropologist at Emory University in Atlanta, has studied the sleep patterns of non-Western populations. From the !Kung hunter-gatherers in Africa to the Swat Pathan herders in Pakistan, Dr. Worthman documented a pattern of communal sleep in which individuals drifted in and out of sleep throughout the night. 
 She speculates that there may even be an evolutionary advantage to interrupted sleep. ''When we lived in open exposed savanna, being solidly asleep leaves us vulnerable to predators.''
 With artificial light, modern humans have essentially managed to extend their daytime activities late into the night, when all other sensible creatures are busy sleeping. 
 As a result, we have compressed our natural sleep into artificially short nighttimes, but not all people are so easily tamed by artificial light. Some people, who may just have very strong circadian rhythms, still have this primitive bimodal sleep that they confuse with a sleep disorder.
 Add these people to the rest of us who, under the pressures of modern life, often have some trouble falling or staying asleep and there is a large captive audience for drug companies.
 Thanks in large part to the meteoric rise in direct-to-consumer advertising, medications like Ambien and Lunesta have become household names and seductive panaceas that millions find hard to resist -- even though a majority have no serious sleep problem to repair. If it's any consolation to those of you who are awake in the middle of the night for an hour or so, reading or watching television, you may simply be the most natural sleepers.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Cathy Gendron)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP DISORDERS (93%); SLEEP (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); DEPRESSION (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (67%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (52%) Sleep; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH (59%) National Institute of Mental Health 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Richard A (Dr) Friedman; Thomas A (Dr) Wehr

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



287 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Pilots and Fatigue

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Airline Pilots Still Flying, but No Longer Quite So High'' (Business Day, March 10) highlights an astonishing contradiction in federal safety regulation policies: 
 In an industry that eagerly adopts the benefits of new science and technology, the antiquated rules that limit working hours for pilots do not reflect modern scientific findings on the effects of fatigue.
The Federal Aviation Regulations governing airline pilot flight and duty-time limits date back to the 1930's. Other than a modest revision in 1985, they still reflect the era before globe-spanning jetliners replaced piston-powered fleets. 
 The FAR's do not reflect the extensive research by NASA in the 1990's into the effects of work hours on pilot fatigue.
 For example, a pilot on duty (not necessarily flying) will, after 17 hours, sustain the same performance impairment as one who violates the FAR limits on alcohol in the system.
 A decade ago, the Federal Aviation Administration promised to update its rules, but industry resistance has kept all reforms off the table. The current economic crunch, where airlines are pushing the limits of the rules as well as their pilots, has made the need for reforms even more urgent.

Duane Woerth
President
Air Line Pilots Association Intl.
Washington, March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (94%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%) Airlines and Airplanes; Working Hours; Pilots; Fatigue; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Research

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (82%) Air Line Pilots Assn

PERSON: Duane Woerth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



288 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Ground Zero Construction Approach the Deadline

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the governor's deadline looming, the Pataki administration, the Port Authority and the developer Larry A. Silverstein continued negotiations yesterday over a major realignment at ground zero but remained far apart on critical financial issues concerning the rebuilding effort.
 Gov. George E. Pataki had given Mr. Silverstein and the authority until today to work out their differences over who is to build what and when at the 16-acre site. 
With the groundbreaking for the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower scheduled for next month, state officials want to accelerate the rebuilding effort. But there is a growing concern at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and in the Pataki administration that Mr. Silverstein does not have the means to build the Freedom Tower and three other planned commercial towers. 
 Under one plan being discussed now, the authority would take control of building the Freedom Tower, the tallest, most expensive and most symbolic skyscraper, at the northwest corner and a fifth tower on a separate parcel known as Site 5, at Greenwich and Cedar Streets, where the heavily damaged Deutsche Bank tower stands.
 Mr. Silverstein, in turn, would retain the right to develop what are generally regarded as the most lucrative sites for three towers on Church Street, between Vesey and Liberty Streets, next to the $2 billion PATH terminal now under construction.
 If a new deal is struck at ground zero, proponents say, it could result in the construction of the Freedom Tower, the memorial, a large shopping mall and three other towers on the site by 2011. 
 But David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at the Fiscal Policy Institute, which studies New York economic issues, suggested that whoever becomes governor in January could decide to delay or even cancel the Freedom Tower, the riskiest building in financial terms, while accelerating development on the rest of the site. 
 According to a senior executive involved with the negotiations, the Port Authority is balking at the deal because it regards Mr. Silverstein's financial terms as unfair.
 The executive, who was granted anonymity because the negotiations are being conducted in secret and he did not want to antagonize Governor Pataki, said Mr. Silverstein was insisting on keeping for his own ground zero projects more than three-quarters of the insurance money available for rebuilding -- estimated at $2.9 billion -- while demanding a major reduction in rent. 
 The talks, which ran through the weekend and all day yesterday, are continuing with Kenneth J. Ringler Jr., the authority's executive director, and Darrell Buchbinder, its general counsel, on one side of the table and Martin Lipton, Mr. Silverstein's chief lawyer, on the other. John P. Cahill, the governor's chief of staff, is overseeing the talks. 
 Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for the governor, declined to comment on the negotiations other than to say they were continuing.
 Anthony R. Coscia, the authority chairman, said it would consider taking over the development of the Freedom Tower. ''But,'' he added, ''that would have to be done in a way that would ensure that the entire site is fully rebuilt, including the memorial.''
 Fund-raising for the six-acre memorial, which is expected to cost more than $500 million, has been sluggish. So far, the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation has raised $302 million, including $200 million in federal funds.
 The shortfall, the debate over the pace of rebuilding and the role of Mr. Silverstein have deepened a sense of uncertainty over the future of Lower Manhattan, angering many downtown corporate and real estate figures, as well as the City Council.
 Governor Pataki has said the Freedom Tower will stand as a symbol of New York's resilience while restoring the city's skyline. It is also regarded by many people as the least economically feasible of the five towers because it is so big, so far from public transportation and unattractive to corporate tenants, who view it as a potential target. Even executives working for Mr. Silverstein say that it will in all likelihood become a government office building.
 Mr. Silverstein has repeatedly argued that he has the means and the ability to build the entire project, at a cost of over $7 billion.
 There is only $2.9 billion in insurance money, however. In recent weeks, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said that the developer will run out of money by 2010 after building only two towers, default on his lease and walk away with millions of dollars in profit, leaving the authority without a way to finish the other buildings. 
 The mayor noted that Mr. Silverstein has collected tens of millions of dollars in fees and recouped all the money he and his partners invested in the project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAWYERS (60%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry A Silverstein; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



289 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Man Is Held After Two Officers Are Shot 

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Ann Farmer contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Two police officers were shot in a Brooklyn rooming house early yesterday during a chaotic struggle with a man whom officials described as emotionally disturbed but were saved by their bullet-resistant vests, the police said. 
 The man, Jonathan Julian, fired at least two shots after the officers pushed their way into his room with two other officers and ended up with Mr. Julian in a tangle on a bed, the police said.
 One of the other officers was bitten on the hand as he tried to subdue Mr. Julian, who had drawn the attention of the police after he set a small fire in the building and was reportedly roaming the hallways with a knife in each hand. 
 The two officers who were shot, Hector Ramirez and John Antonacci, were being held overnight for observation at Kings County Hospital Center. Officer Nicholas Horun, who was bitten on the right hand, was treated and released. 
 Mr. Julian, 29, who was once convicted for assaulting a police officer, emerged from the struggle with a broken nose after he drew a .44 Magnum revolver and fired at least two rounds at the men trying to subdue him, officials said. 
 ''It's really, truly a miracle that that none of these officers were killed or seriously injured,'' Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said. ''This individual, who was clearly deranged, fired an extremely powerful weapon at close range in quarters so tight as to be claustrophobic.'' 
 The drama began at 3 a.m., when Mr. Julian, an unemployed handyman, started burning paper in the sink of a shared kitchen of the four-story building, at 834 Halsey Street in Bedford Stuyvesant, the police said.
 Katie Coleman, an 86-year-old neighbor, said she was watching television when she smelled smoke and left her room to find Mr. Julian feeding the blaze with bits of newspaper. ''I told him to put it out, that he was going to burn down the house,'' she said. Other neighbors told the police that Mr. Julian had said his fire was an effort at ''burning the devil.'' 
 Ms. Coleman, for one, decided to back away when she saw a butcher knife in Mr. Julian's hand. ''I walked into my room and closed the door,'' she said. ''I wasn't going to take any chances.'' 
 Firefighters initially responded to a 911 call from the house but held back when another call came in about a disturbed man with a knife. By the time Sgt. Chiksum Gong of the 81st Precinct arrived with three of his officers, Mr. Julian had barricaded himself in his room at the end of a narrow corridor, the police said. 
 The police ordered Mr. Julian to open the door and show his hands. When he refused, they began pushing on the door. Mr. Julian shoved back. And then in an instant, the door flew open and the men, including Mr. Julian, landed on a bed near the threshold. ''If it wasn't so serious, the scene would have been hysterical,'' said one police official. 
 The four officers, who had expected to find a man with a knife, instead found themselves grabbing at a gun. During the struggle, Mr. Julian fired off at least two shots, one of which hit Officer Ramirez in the chest, just below his badge. The other bullet hit Officer Antonacci in the back and then grazed his left shoulder
 Sergeant Gong, facing the barrel of the gun, wrapped his fingers around the cylinder, effectively locking the gun. ''The sergeant had the presence of mind to rely on standard Police Academy instruction to grab the cylinder of the shooter's revolver,'' Mr. Kelly said. 
 Even with his gun disabled, Mr. Julian continued to resist arrest, the police said. The struggle continued through the hallway, down the stairs and onto the street. As the officers tried to handcuff him, Mr. Julian bit down on Officer Horun's hand, drawing blood. Mr. Kelly said he would seek to have Mr. Julian's H.I.V. status determined. 
 Mr. Julian has three previous arrests, including one for assaulting a police officer with a switchblade in 2000. In that case he received a year's probation. 
 Neighbors said they did not feel that Mr. Julian was a troublemaker. A native of Jamaica who goes by the nickname Dreds, he paid $140 a week for a small room in the eight-unit building, said the owner, Tee Thumpituk. ''He gets kind of loud sometimes, but mostly he stays to himself,'' said Paris Chillious, who lives on the block and often visits a friend in the building. ''Still, he's nice, he's cool, he's all right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); FACIAL INJURIES (67%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Attacks on Police; Bullet-Proof Clothing

PERSON: Hector (Police Officer) Ramirez; John (Police Officer) Antonacci; John Julian; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



290 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: City Agrees to a Bigger RoleIn Its Upstate Water System

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: GILBOA, N.Y., March 13 

 BODY:
In a major shift in the way New York manages its vast upstate water supply system, the Bloomberg administration announced several measures on Monday that would put the city firmly in the flood-control business, assuming a responsibility it has long tried to avoid. 
 After a meeting with local officials concerned about the safety of the city's 80-year-old Gilboa Dam, Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city would rebuild the dam and install new flood gates and valves that could be used to lower the level of the Schoharie Reservoir, the northernmost of the city's upstate reservoirs. 
The measures, he said, will ''not just provide a safe dam, but one where we can finally deal with flood control.'' 
 Mr. Doctoroff acknowledged that the city ''hasn't always been the best neighbor,'' and has neglected to maintain its dams properly over the years. 
 ''We recognize the cost of not having done the appropriate maintenance,'' he said, ''and we're not going to make the same mistake again.'' 
 An inspection last year found that the Gilboa Dam, which is in the Catskill Mountains, no longer met state safety standards. Mr. Doctoroff said the city would try to speed the pace of reconstruction of the dam, which will cost more than $200 million. The work is scheduled to begin in 2008, two years earlier than originally planned. 
 As he stood at the foot of the badly deteriorated dam, Mr. Doctoroff was surprised by what he saw. Countless giant bluestone blocks that originally formed the face of the dam were gone, and steel-reinforcing bars jutted from a layer of crumbling concrete. A 200-foot-long notch had to be cut in the top of the dam earlier this year to lower the water level and reduce stress on the structure. 
 ''New York should have taken better care of it,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. 
 The city has been under increasing pressure from upstate residents in the 2,000-square-mile watershed to change the way it cares for and operates its reservoirs. A marked change in weather patterns has intensified flooding, causing millions of dollars in property damage and souring the already tense relationship between the city and the watershed communities. 
 Until now, city officials have said that their primary responsibility was to ensure a safe and ample drinking water supply for nine million people in New York and surrounding areas. To ensure that supply, the city has tended to keep its reservoirs as close to full as possible. Some of the older dams, including Gilboa, were not built with the kind of release valves needed to mitigate flooding. 
 Local residents have accused the city of hoarding water, and they have complained that by keeping the reservoirs full, the city has made the flooding situation worse. Heavy rains last spring and fall caused reservoirs to overflow, inundating downstream communities. 
 ''Thousands of people go to bed every night with their stomachs all tied up in knots,'' said Representative Michael R. McNulty, a Democrat from Green Island N.Y. ''The city's commitment on flood gates for Gilboa is very important to us.'' 
 Still, the flip side of lowering reservoir levels to avoid flooding is the increased possibility that there will not be enough water to slake the city's billion-gallon-a-day thirst. In the past, city officials have resisted upstate demands to lower reservoir levels, in part because they wanted to avoid the possibility of imposing water-use restrictions during a hot New York City summer. 
 The State Senate passed a bill last month that would give the state power to lower the city's reservoirs to avoid flooding. 
 City officials said they hoped that by using more sophisticated forecasting models from the National Weather Service, they could achieve a balance between flood protection and water supply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOOD CONTROL (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); CITIES (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); WEATHER (72%); MOUNTAINS (66%) Water; Gilboa Dam (NYS); Reservoirs

PERSON: Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (69%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City; Schoharie Reservoir (NY); Catskill Mountains

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



291 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices and Interest Rates Cause Modest Rally to Fade 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Surging oil prices and worries over interest rates diluted Wall Street's enthusiasm over multibillion-dollar acquisitions in the banking and newspaper sectors yesterday, and stocks ended little changed. 
 With no new economic reports from the government, investors turned their focus to the day's two major deals: Capital One Financial's $14.6 billion bid for North Fork Bancorp and McClatchy's $4.5 billion bid for the newspaper publisher Knight Ridder.
 But continued nervousness about higher interest rates, oil and inflation limited Wall Street's momentum, said Jeff Kleintop, chief investment strategist for the PNC Financial Services Group. This week's reports on consumer prices and retail sales will feed speculation over whether the Federal Reserve might lift rates as many as three more times, he said. 
 At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average slipped 0.32 points, to 11,076.02. The Dow had advanced as much as 40 points earlier in the session. 
 The broader stock indicators also gave up most of their earlier gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.55 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,284.13, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.99 points, or 0.22 percent, to 2,267.03, after losing 1.76 percent last week. 
 Bond prices extended last week's decline, with the 10-year Treasury note falling 2/32, to 97 29/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, edging up to 4.77 percent from 4.76 percent late Friday. The dollar lost ground against other major currencies, and gold prices also slipped. 
 Crude oil futures jumped as anxiety about political tension in major oil-producing nations countered reports of growing reserves in the United States. A barrel of light crude oil added $1.81, to settle at $61.77, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Mr. Kleintop said the market appeared to have some momentum from last week's jobs data and should react to a number of reports scheduled for this week, including import and export prices, housing starts and consumer confidence. Many traders, however, are already looking ahead to the Fed's March 28 meeting, when the central bank is expected to raise the federal funds rate a 16th consecutive time. 
 But while signs of economic strength in the United States and overseas are reason for investors to anticipate higher interest rates, it is too soon to tell if the central bank will lift rates above 5 percent, said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management. 
 ''The Fed has said they're going to be data dependent,'' Mr. Gendreau said. ''A lot is going to depend on what the world looks like at their June meeting. And June is a long way off, so I think that's a little premature.'' 
 McClatchy, which is planning to sell about a third of Knight Ridder's newspapers, is assuming about $2 billion in debt as part of the agreement. McClatchy lost $1.51, to $51.55; Knight Ridder initially gained ground but ended down $1.08 at $63.92. 
 Capital One, a leading issuer of credit cards, agreed to buy North Fork in a stock-and-cash deal equal to a 23 percent premium to the $25.40 closing price of North Fork's closing price Friday. Capital One dropped $6.82, to $83.10, while North Fork added $3.80, to $29.20. 
 Watson Pharmaceuticals made a deal to buy a rival, Andrx, for $1.9 billion in cash, creating the nation's third-largest generic drug maker. The $25-a-share offer is a 16 percent premium to Andrx's closing price Friday. Watson fell 55 cents, to $29, and Andrx surged $2.14, to $23.73. 
 The home mortgage lender Fannie Mae said it found additional accounting errors during a government-ordered review. The company said it had made progress toward completing the review but expected to miss its filing deadline for the second straight year. Fannie Mae fell 96 cents, to $52.97.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:These are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.859	97.651	High Rate	4.510	4.645	Investment Rate	4.625	4.823	Low Rate	4.480	4.610	Median Rate	4.500	4.630	Total applied for	$59,465,794	$46,502,301	Accepted	$27,728,177	$25,870,221	Noncompetitive	$2,138,023	$1,671,109	

Both issues are dated March 16, 2006. The three-month bills mature on June 15, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 14, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); RETAIL SALES (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (91%); ING GROEP NV (58%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (91%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



292 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Supporter's Voice Now Turns On Bush

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

America at the Crossroads
Democracy, Power and the Neoconservative Legacy
By Francis Fukuyama
226 pages. Yale University Press. $25.
 ''America at the Crossroads'' serves up a powerful indictment of the Bush administration's war in Iraq and the role that neoconservative ideas -- concerning preventive war, benevolent hegemony and unilateral action -- played in shaping the decision to go to war, its implementation and its aftermath. These arguments are made all the more devastating by the fact that the author, Francis Fukuyama, was once a star neoconservative theorist himself, who studied with or was associated with leading neoconservative luminaries like Paul D. Wolfowitz, William Kristol, Albert Wohlstetter and Allan Bloom, and whose best-selling 1992 book, ''The End of History and the Last Man,'' was celebrated (and denounced) as a classic neoconservative text on the end of the cold war and the global march of liberal democracy.
Indeed, ''America at the Crossroads'' represents the latest and most detailed criticism of the Bush administration's war in Iraq -- delivered from a conservative point of view. With it, Mr. Fukuyama, who teaches at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, joins a growing number of conservatives, including William F. Buckley Jr., George F. Will, Bruce Bartlett and Andrew Sullivan, who have voiced doubts about the war. 
 In Mr. Fukuyama's case, the criticisms suggest a marked evolution in perspective. In 1998, Mr. Fukuyama signed a letter sponsored by Project for the New American Century urging the Clinton administration to take a harder line against Iraq, and in the days after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 he signed another from the group, which asserted that ''any strategy aiming at the eradication of terrorism and its sponsors must include a determined effort to remove Saddam Hussein from power.'' 
 In the wake of the Bush administration's enunciation of a doctrine of pre-emption and its big-shouldered, go-it-alone approach to foreign policy, however, Mr. Fukuyama began to voice concerns. In an op-ed article in The Washington Post published on the second anniversary of 9/11, he warned that ''overreaction to Sept. 11 will lead to a world in which the United States and its policies remain the chief focus of global concern,'' also saying that ''the tremendous margin of power exercised by the United States in the security realm brings with it special responsibilities to use that power prudently.'' 
 A February 2004 dinner at the American Enterprise Institute made Mr. Fukuyama even more aware of the gulf between himself and neoconservative supporters of the war. Listening to the columnist Charles Krauthammer's speech -- which embraced the doctrine of pre-emption and asserted that the toppling of Saddam Hussein had made America safer -- he says he ''could not understand why everyone around me was applauding the speech enthusiastically, given that the United States had found no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, was bogged down in a vicious insurgency, and had almost totally isolated itself from the rest of the world by following the kind of unipolar strategy advocated by Krauthammer.'' 
 In response, Mr. Fukuyama wrote a blistering critique of the neoconservative push for war that was published in the quarterly The National Interest in the summer of 2004 -- an essay, along with a series of lectures delivered at Yale last year, that provides a kind of armature for the arguments in this astute and shrewdly reasoned book.
 In ''America at the Crossroads,'' Mr. Fukuyama questions the assertion made by the prominent neoconservatives Mr. Kristol and Robert Kagan in their 2000 book ''Present Dangers: Crisis and Opportunity in American Foreign and Defense Policy'' that other nations ''find they have less to fear'' from the daunting power of the United States because ''American foreign policy is infused with an unusually high degree of morality.'' The problem with this doctrine of ''benevolent hegemony,'' Mr. Fukuyama points out, is that ''it is not sufficient that Americans believe in their own good intentions; non-Americans must be convinced of them as well.'' 
 ''Before other countries accepted U.S. leadership,'' he adds, ''they would have to be convinced not just that America was good but that it was also wise in its application of power, and, through that wisdom, successful in achieving the ends it set for itself.'' Already in question before the Iraq war, these assumptions now lie in tatters. 
 Mr. Fukuyama also contends that many neoconservatives -- particularly those belonging to the ''expansive, interventionist, democracy-promoting'' school, defined by Mr. Kristol and Mr. Kagan -- misinterpreted the collapse of Communism and the end of the cold war. By putting too much emphasis on the American military buildup under Ronald Reagan ''as the cause of the USSR's collapse, when political and economic factors were at least as important,'' he contends, forward-leaning neocons came to the conclusion that ''history could be accelerated through American agency.'' 
 In other words, neoconservatives leaped from the premise that democracy is likely to expand universally in the long run (a view Mr. Fukuyama has promoted himself) to the notion that this historical process could be hastened by United States efforts to implement regime changes in places like Iraq. At the same time, Mr. Fukuyama says, these theorists seem to have assumed that the rapid and relatively peaceful transition to democracy and free markets made by countries like Poland could be replicated in other parts of the world -- never mind the state of local institutions, traditions and infrastructure. 
 These errors were worsened in the walk-up to the war in Iraq, Mr. Fukuyama adds, by an us-versus-them mentality on the part of many neoconservatives, who felt they were looked down upon by the foreign policy establishment. ''After their return to power in 2001,'' he writes, ''proponents of the war in the Pentagon and vice president's office became excessively distrustful of anyone who did not share their views, a distrust that extended to Secretary of State Colin Powell and much of the intelligence community. Bureaucratic tribalism exists in all administrations, but it rose to poisonous levels in Bush's first term. Team loyalty trumped open-minded discussion, and was directly responsible for the administration's failure to plan adequately for the period after the end of active combat.'' 
 A second factor that contributed to postwar chaos in Iraq was a lack of sufficient troops: ''Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, who wanted to go into Iraq with light forces and get out quickly,'' Mr. Fukuyama says, ''has as a result of this strategy bogged the U.S. military down in a long-term guerrilla war.'' A third factor involved the failure of neoconservatives to heed what Mr. Fukuyama identifies as one of their own core beliefs: the view that ''ambitious social engineering often leads to unexpected consequences and often undermines its own ends,'' a view that grew out of many neocons' anti-Stalinism and distrust of programs like welfare at home. 
 The Bush administration, Mr. Fukuyama writes, ''vastly underestimated the cost and difficulty of reconstructing Iraq and guiding it toward a democratic transition.'' It ignored the critical fact that institutions ''must be in place before a society can move from an amorphous longing for freedom to a well-functioning, consolidated democratic political system with a modern economy,'' and it spurned the help of domestic and international agencies that might have contributed expertise on post-conflict reconstruction.
 Mr. Fukuyama predicts that ''one of the consequences of a perceived failure in Iraq will be the discrediting of the entire neoconservative agenda and a restoration of the authority of foreign policy realists.'' He writes that ''neoconservatism, as both a political symbol and a body of thought, has evolved into something that I can no longer support.'' In its place, he calls for a ''realistic Wilsonianism'' that would involve ''a dramatic demilitarization of American foreign policy and re-emphasis on other types of policy instruments,'' the jettisoning of incendiary rhetoric about a global war on terrorism and the promotion of political and economic development abroad through ''soft power'' (''our ability to set an example, to train and educate, to support with advice and often money''). 
 The ability of the current Bush administration ''to fix the problems it created for itself in its first four years will be limited,'' Mr. Fukuyama writes near the end of this tough-minded and edifying book. ''Repairing American credibility will not be a matter of better public relations; it will require a new team and new policies.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Francis Fukuyama (Photo by Francis Fukuyama)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); COLD WAR (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (76%); LITERATURE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); BESTSELLERS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Michiko Kakutani; Francis Fukuyama

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



293 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Trichet Comments on 3 Economies

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, left, said expansion in the world's three largest economies was robust enough to withstand the first round of concerted interest rate increases in six years. The pace of global expansion ''is certainly encouraging,'' Mr. Trichet told a news conference after meeting with his Group of 10 colleagues in Basel. Central banks are ''paving the way for sustainable growth'' by ensuring stable prices. The Bank of Japan last week joined the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank in tightening monetary policy to head off inflation. The Bank of Japan cut the amount of cash it provides to lenders and may raise rates this year as economic growth quickens. Investors expect the Fed and the European Central Bank to continue raising rates as their economies expand. ''There seems to be acceptance that the big three central banks envisage further tightening,'' said Julian Callow, chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London. ''The G-10 appears confident about the pace of economic expansion.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); GROUP OF TEN (G10) (55%) European Union; European Central Bank; Bank of Japan

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (91%) Jean-Claude Trichet

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006



294 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Many Utilities Collect for Taxes They Never Pay

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Many electric utility companies across the nation are collecting billions of dollars from their customers for corporate income taxes, then keeping the money rather than sending it to the government.
 The practice is legal in most states. The companies say it is smart business.
 But some representatives of utility customers say that the practice, which involves using losses from other subsidiaries to reduce taxes owed, is not fair. They say that money that utilities are required to collect for federal and state taxes -- typically a nickel on each dollar paid for electricity -- should go for just that, or not be included in electric bills.
 Otherwise, they argue, these legal monopolies make more than they are authorized to, and other taxpayers have to make up the difference in higher taxes or reduced services.
 An examination of regulatory filings by The New York Times shows that companies with electric utilities in at least 26 states have pocketed money intended for income taxes, and that utilities can legally do so in 21 more states. 
 Because they are legal monopolies, utilities must charge rates set by state regulators. These cover all costs -- from buying fuel, to building new power plants, to a virtually guaranteed profit and paying the taxes on that profit.
 Normally, customer payments for those taxes eventually find their way to federal and state governments. That is usually the case for independent utilities like Consolidated Edison, which serves the New York area, and American Electric Power, which operates in 11 states from Kentucky to Oklahoma. 
 But in recent years many utilities have expanded into unregulated businesses, like energy trading and aircraft leasing, while others have been acquired by companies that own other businesses. When those other businesses lose money or create artificial losses through tax planning, those losses can be used to offset income earned by the utilities.
 As a result, the parent companies owe less in taxes than their electric customers paid. Sometimes these companies owe nothing, or receive large tax refunds. By not remitting the taxes, the parent companies effectively have more money to invest in their operations or pay to shareholders in dividends. 
 The ability to intercept tax payments is not limited to electric utilities. Natural gas, water and telephone utilities can use the same techniques. The potential tax benefits are much smaller for gas and water utilities, however. And most telephone companies are no longer regulated as monopolies and their rates no longer include income taxes. (The taxes and fees that phone companies add to monthly bills are not corporate income taxes.) 
 Among the electric utilities whose customer tax payments are not reaching tax coffers is Pepco, serving four states and the District of Columbia. Pepco collected nearly $546 million from customers to cover its income tax bill for the years 2002 through 2004. Yet the parent Pepco Holdings did not pay income taxes during those years; indeed, it received $435 million in tax refunds. 
 Pepco says the beneficiaries of those refunds were not the company's shareholders, but utility customers. A vice president, Anthony J. Kamerick, said that without the ability to use taxes embedded in monthly electric bills to help finance its unregulated investments, including new power plants, electric customers would pay higher rates.
 Customers paid Xcel Energy, a big utility in 10 Midwest and Western states, at least $723 million to cover taxes from 2002 to 2004. But the money did not go to the government; in fact, the company received cash refunds of $351.4 million. 
 A spokesman, Ed Legge, said the refunds resulted from a failed energy trading business. ''Utility customers did not bear the risk of that business, and they should not benefit either,'' he said.
 Also expressing the utilities' view, Paul L. Joskow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said, ''For the customer, the result is the same.'' If the utility were a stand-alone company and filed its own tax return, he added, the customer would pay the same for power.
 But critics argue that when utilities collect taxes the government never receives, customers do lose.
 The Minnesota attorney general, Mike Hatch, said, ''Essentially, the utility ratepayers pay the tax twice, once through the utility bill and again through the lost revenue to government that means either higher taxes for them or less government services.'' Mr. Hatch is trying to require that any taxes included in Xcel bills be paid to the government. Xcel opposes this.
 The critics say that while many profitable businesses use losses to minimize their tax bills, utilities are unique because their taxes are built into the bills that customers pay. 
 Critics also say utility companies are enriched beyond the limits set by law if they pocket the tax money. ''Utilities are entitled to a just and reasonable return,'' said Myer Shark, a 93-year-old lawyer who sued unsuccessfully to recover $300 million in taxes paid by Minnesota customers of Xcel. ''But when they keep the taxes, they are earning an unjust and unreasonable rate of return.''
 Enron was a pioneer in turning taxes into profit. Since 1997 the company, now in bankruptcy, has collected nearly $900 million from customers of a utility it acquired, Portland General Electric, to cover income taxes. But none of that money reached the federal government from Enron, and only a quirk in the law forced Portland G.E. to pay about $800,000 in income taxes, of which $20 went to the state of Oregon. 
 Enron could keep the tax money because it created 881 subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and other tax havens, tax shelters that on paper generated losses for the parent. 
 The tax benefits are one reason Wall Street these days likes electric utilities, long seen as unexciting investments. Warren E. Buffett, Henry R. Kravis and David Bonderman are among investors drawn to utilities in recent years in hopes of earning returns through parent companies that can be several times those typically approved by state regulators for the utilities themselves.
 For decades utilities have been able to delay paying the government the taxes collected from customers; the delayed taxes are known as phantom taxes. But the more recent issue involves taxes the government will never receive because tax rules have not caught up with changes in the ownership structure of utilities.
 Three decades ago, said James T. Selecky, a utility-rate consultant to the Minnesota attorney general, ''we had true utility companies with very few or minor other operations,'' so the taxes eventually flowed to the government. But that is no longer true.
 Only a few states have mechanisms to prevent pocketing such money. West Virginia and Oregon require that taxes be paid to the government, although the Oregon law, enacted last year, is under attack by utilities there.
 In Pennsylvania, the state Supreme Court ruled in 1985 that ''fictitious'' expenses, such as taxes government never receives, cannot be included in utility rates. 
 The prospect that a utility could charge for taxes that the government would never receive became a major issue in Oregon when David Bonderman's Texas Pacific Group tried to buy Portland General Electric in 2004. 
 Texas Pacific specializes in revamping financially troubled companies like Burger King and the clothier J. Crew. Such companies typically have tax losses, but little or no profit to make use of them. If Texas Pacific had acquired Portland General Electric, whose profits are virtually guaranteed and which had $92 million a year of taxes embedded in the bills customers pay, it couldhave used the losses from its other companies to offset the utility's profit and keep the money paid by customers ostensibly for taxes.
 Texas Pacific persuaded Oregon utility regulators to keep most records of the purchase proceedings secret. 
 When these documents became public, they showed that Texas Pacific expected annual returns greater than 33 percent, three times the expected rate of return for a utility. That revelation generated public and official criticism. The state Public Utility Commission unanimously rejected the Portland purchase a year ago. 
 In the wake of the controversy, the Oregon Legislature passed a law requiring that taxes on electric bills be turned over to the government and rates adjusted each year to accurately reflect what customers paid and governments collected. 
 MidAmerican Electric, an Iowa utility holding company controlled by Mr. Buffett, and PacifiCorp, a Scottish-owned electric utility, have been lobbying in Oregon for repeal of the law.
 The National Federation of Independent Business's Oregon chapter, with 12,000 members, favors the law. J. L. Wilson, its executive director, said it helped prevent a practice that ''just bumps up electric rates.'' 
 One way to make sure customers do not pay for taxes that governments never receive would be to require each utility to file its own tax return. That way, taxes would be paid to the government, not to a parent company. 
 Another solution has been advanced for three decades by Robert Batinovich, a California businessman who promoted innovative approaches to regulation when he was chairman of the California Public Utilities Commission in the 1970's. Mr. Batinovich, now chairman of Glenborough Realty Trust in San Mateo, Calif., suggested exempting regulated monopolies from the corporate income tax. ''It's just a disguised consumption tax, just another way to take from the little guy,'' he said. 
 But he said that if governments wanted to raise money from regulated utilities, it would be easier just to add a tax, similar to a sales tax, to monthly bills and require that all that money be turned over.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Myer Shark, 93, a lawyer outside Minneapolis, sued in vain in an effort to recover $300 million in taxes paid by Minnesota customers of Xcel, a big regional utility. He saw ''an unjust and unreasonable rate of return.'' (Photo by Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Pocketing Taxes''The rates customers pay for electricity include taxes on the utilities' profits. But companies that own utilities can use losses from their other businesses to reduce or eliminate their tax bill. In fact, each of the parent companies below collected refunds from the government and did not pay taxes for the period 2002-4, even though each collected taxes from customers.Figures are in millionsCenterPoint EnergySERVES: Tex.TAXES COLLECTED: $150.4REFUND: $349.5Dominion ResourcesSERVES: N.C., Va.TAXES COLLECTED: $177.8*REFUND: $ 48.0Duke EnergySERVES: N.C., S.C.TAXES COLLECTED: $248.9REFUND: $ 13.0Edison InternationalSERVES: Calif.TAXES COLLECTED: $2,340.5REFUND: $ 38.0FPL GroupSERVES: Fla.TAXES COLLECTED: $482.5*REFUND: $323.0Pepco HoldingsSERVES: Del., D.C., Md., N.J., Va.TAXES COLLECTED: $545.6*REFUND: $435.0Enron (Portland Gen'l Elec.)SERVES: Ore.TAXES COLLECTED: $278.6REFUND: +Xcel EnergySERVES: Colo., Kan., Mich., Minn., N.M., N.D., Okla., S.D., Tex., Wis.TAXES COLLECTED: $723.0REFUND: $337.1*Estimates based on rates of 5 cents per dollar of electricity sales.+Portland General Electric paid $800,000 in taxes for part of this period. Enron is seeking refunds for the rest of the period.(Sources by 10-K reports filed by the companies)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (74%); LITIGATION (74%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (68%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Taxation; Public Utilities; States (US); Suits and Litigation; Consumer Protection; Electric Light and Power; Rebates; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); PEPCO HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Consolidated Edison Co of New York Inc; American Electric Power Co; Xcel Energy

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%); AEP (NYSE) (90%); POM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston; Myer Shark

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (89%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (89%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



295 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Working It Out

BYLINE: By Claudia Goldin. 
Claudia Goldin, a professor of economics at Harvard, is the author of ''Understanding the Gender Gap.''

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
HIGHLY educated women are getting a bum rap from the press. There has recently been a spate of news and opinion articles telling us that these women, especially graduates of the best universities and professional schools, are ''opting out'' in record numbers, choosing the comforts of home and family over careers. 
 And because there are now 1.33 women graduating from college for every man, the best and brightest women will either have to ''marry down'' or, more likely, we are told, remain single. Taken together, highly educated women will have either family or career. Half of it all, rather than ''having it all.'' 
But the facts speak loudly and clearly against such suppositions. Women who graduated 25 years ago from the nation's top colleges did not ''opt out'' in large numbers, and today's graduates aren't likely to do so either.
 To know whether a woman sacrificed career for her family, we need to know her employment status over many years. The Mellon Foundation did just that in the mid-1990's, collecting information on more than 10,000 women (and 10,000 men) who entered one of 34 highly selective colleges and universities in 1976 and graduated by 1981. We thus have detailed data about their educational, family and work histories when they were in their late 30's. That gives us enough information to figure out whether many women who graduated from top-ranked schools have left the work force.
 Among these women fully 58 percent were never out of the job market for more than six months total in the 15 or so years that followed college or more advanced schooling. On average, the women in the survey spent a total of just 1.6 years out of the labor force, or 11 percent of their potential working years. Just 7 percent spent more than half of their available time away from employment. 
 These women were, moreover, committed not just to their careers. They were also wives and mothers -- 87 percent of the sample had been married, 79 percent were still married 15 years after graduation and 69 percent had at least one child (statistics that are similar to national ones for this demographic group from the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey). Women with at least one child spent a total of 2.1 years on average out of the labor force, or 14 percent of their potential time. Fifty percent of those with children never had a non-employment (non-educational) spell lasting more than 6 months.
 You could argue that they opted out of their careers in more subtle ways, say, by choosing less demanding careers than those for which they had trained. But the occupation data for these women suggest otherwise. Women in these graduating classes stuck with their specialties to about the same degree as did comparable men. The vast majority of women who went to medical school were employed as doctors when in their late 30's; similarly, women who received law degrees were practicing lawyers. 
 What about more recent graduates, those who finished school 10 years ago and are, today, in their early 30's? It is too early to tell for sure, but there are strong hints that little has changed on the opt-out front. Statistics from the National Vital Statistics System show that highly educated women today are having babies even later in life on average than did the entering class of 1976 (and are having more of them). The Current Population Survey tells us that the percentage of college-educated women in their 30's who work has been high (in the 80 percent range) and fairly constant since the early 1990's, although the percentage dropped a bit -- along with that of their male counterparts in the recent economic slump. 
 The fraction in their late 30's who are married, moreover, is around 75 percent and has not budged in the last 25 years. Taken together, the facts -- later babies, more babies, high and fairly constant employment rates, stable marriage rates -- don't spell big opt-out to me. And they don't spell big opt-out change either.
 I'm not saying that all is rosy. These hard-working women still earn less than their male counterparts and they work more around the house. Given their lower earnings, it isn't surprising that some do opt out. But for the most part, female college graduates -- especially those from top-notch schools -- who are in their 30's are career women who care for their children if they have them and work hard for their families.
 These are the opt-out facts. So why is there so much focus on women leaving the work force instead? My friend Ellen, a Ph.D. economist with two young children who teaches in a top-ranked medical school, recently noted with frustration that many people have difficulty believing that ''women can actually contribute professionally and participate meaningfully in the raising of a family.'' But the truth is that a greater fraction of college women today are mixing family life and career than ever before. Denying that fact is ignoring the facts.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paula Scher and Jennifer Rittner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MEN (77%); CHILDREN (77%); RANKINGS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); CENSUS (67%) Labor; Women; Labor

PERSON: Claudia (Prof) Goldin

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



296 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Bush Official Calls Reviews For Deals Adequate 

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14 

 BODY:
The Bush administration pushed back Tuesday against Republican lawmakers' plans to change the review process for foreign acquisitions, saying national security was already the top concern of the committee that approved a Dubai-owned company's aborted takeover of several port terminals in the United States. 
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, speaking to a bankers' trade group, said the administration supported some revisions to the review process for such foreign acquisitions, but he also warned against changes that might discourage foreign investment. 
''This is not a question of a trade-off between investment and security,'' Mr. Snow said. ''We have never made that trade-off. It is vital that we avoid taking steps in the name of national security that instead are isolationist, having the effect of choking off vital investments in America.''
 Mr. Snow's comments countered the arguments of many in Congress that the approval of the Dubai ports deal exposed deep flaws in the review process, which lawmakers in both parties have said weights commercial considerations too heavily and domestic security not heavily enough. 
 He spoke as Republican lawmakers were preparing conflicting proposals to expand the roles of the Department of Homeland Security, intelligence agencies and members of Congress in the review process. Reviews are currently conducted in secret by a panel within the executive branch that is headed by the treasury secretary and known as the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States. 
 On Monday, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and chairwoman of the Senate homeland security committee, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the ranking Democrat on the committee, introduced legislation to replace the existing review committee with a new committee that would be headed by the secretary of homeland security and include a special role for the director of national intelligence. 
 Their bill would require the new committee to brief members of Congress on its work and would mandate closer scrutiny of acquirers owned by foreign governments. DP World, the company that had sought to acquire port terminals in the United States, is owned by the ruler of Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates.
 Other Republican proposals adopt similar approaches. The Senate banking committee has jurisdiction over the existing review panel, which is led by the treasury, and the banking committee's chairman, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, is working on a proposal that would make the defense secretary co-chairman of the existing review panel and give Congress the chance to vote down any deals. 
 Mr. Snow, however, said Tuesday that national security was already the ''top priority'' and ''only consideration'' for the current review panel. The administration favored ''further integration of national and homeland security interests'' and expanding ''notification of decisions'' to Congress. But he stressed the importance of preserving the independence of the committee and protecting the confidentiality of proprietary information that companies share during the review.
 Uncertainty ''could chill investment,'' Mr. Snow said. ''Clearly economic isolationism is not the way to go, as it would threaten opportunity and prosperity for Americans and billions of people all over the world.''
 Separately, former President Bill Clinton, at a news conference in Harlem, answered questions about his role in the ports deal. He said news reports that he had worked to support approval of the deal were ''not true,'' and said that he shared the views of his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, that the United States should block the takeover. 
 Mrs. Clinton co-sponsored legislation that would prevent the acquisition of any port operations by companies that are owned by foreign governments. She also called for a more thorough review of the DP World deal and repeatedly inveighed against the security threat that the takeover might represent.
 But Mr. Clinton also confirmed that he had advised Dubai on the modernization of its economy and that he had given some advice to the country about how to respond to the uproar over the deal.
 ''I had one phone conversation with them, in which I said I thought there would be enormous public opposition and I couldn't understand why they'd want to operate the ports given the poor state of port security and the recent Congressional committee reports criticizing the homeland security program,'' Mr. Clinton said. 
 ''The only advice I gave them, the only thing I said,'' he continued, ''is if you are determined to press ahead with us, do not try to jam it through. Submit it to full review, and offer proposals to increase port security.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TERRORISM (66%); JURISDICTION (65%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; United States Economy; Foreign Investments; Ships and Shipping ; Terrorism; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%) Dubai Ports World; Dp World

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%) David D Kirkpatrick; Patrick Healy; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



297 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Turns to the Needs of Renters

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, March 14 

 BODY:
Underscoring the serious housing shortage for workers here, Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana announced a $1.75 billion plan Tuesday to encourage landlords to repair or build apartments and houses for rent. 
 Officials hope the plan will lead to the restoration or construction of as many as 45,000 dwellings in a city where huge swaths of low-income housing were left unlivable by Hurricane Katrina's floodwaters. But they emphasized that the plan was contingent on approval by Congress, which has been increasingly reluctant to give Louisiana a special hand.
The money for the plan would come out of the $4.2 billion that President Bush has proposed sending to Louisiana to cover housing needs. But Congressional appropriators seem determined to reduce that amount, in part because lawmakers from neighboring Texas and Mississippi have asked for some of the money, and in part because conservatives maintain that the tens of billions already appropriated for emergency relief and reconstruction in the region is enough. The issue comes up for debate in the House on Wednesday. 
 Before the hurricane, just over half the residents of New Orleans were renters. The labor shortage being felt in all areas of the local economy -- ''now hiring'' signs are still abundant -- is partly a result of the wholesale destruction of small apartment buildings, rental houses and apartment complexes throughout the city. 
 Governor Blanco, a first-term Democrat, accentuated the point Tuesday in announcing her plan. Nearly half the estimated 200,000 jobs lost in the metropolitan area because of the storm were low-wage jobs, she said. 
 ''Rebuilding or reopening affordable apartments and rental homes is critical to getting our workers, and their families, back home,'' the governor said in an outdoor news conference at a development of single-family homes and apartments.
 Until now, the focus has been on getting homeowners back on their feet. Three weeks ago the state unveiled a $7.5 billion package of loans and grants to help owners rebuild and repair. 
 But perhaps even more critical to the immediate revival of South Louisiana's low-wage economy is establishing rental housing for workers. ''This whole program is intended to make sure there is available housing at affordable rents,'' said Andy Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, created by the governor.
 Under the two chief provisions of the plan, about $940 million would be made available to small landlords in no-interest loans -- money they would not have to repay until the property was sold -- and $585 million would go to developers, as a direct subsidy for rents and debt.
 The proposal would prod developers to build housing for a mix of incomes, and landlords to fix up apartments for lower-earning households. For instance, bigger loans would be provided to landlords charging lower rents, and developers would be pushed to mix unsubsidized apartments into their government-aided projects, in a bid to avoid the islands of poverty that characterized the city before the storm.
 Ms. Blanco and Mr. Kopplin announced the proposal at one such rental development of mixed incomes: River Gardens, which planted New Orleans-style homes -- Creole cottages, for example, and camelbacks, a local version of a split-level -- on the site of one of the city's worst housing projects, St. Thomas, now demolished. The new development was completed not long before the storm, but hardly shows wear. 
 Though derided by some critics outside New Orleans as a tasteless pastiche, River Gardens replaced a sprawling, dangerous complex that was a deathtrap to many of its residents. Gunfire could be heard nightly in the project's environs, which had one of the highest murder rates in the city. 
 The new, well-maintained development, near the Mississippi River, is light-years away from that, and indeed Ms. Blanco held it up as a model on Tuesday.
 Yet what would have been acceptable as everyday occurrences at St. Thomas can create their own set of problems now, as was evident Tuesday when several tenants loudly interjected criticism at the news conference. 
 Officials later said some residents had had difficulty adapting to the new development's requirements, and indeed one woman, Sharese Jones, complained that she was ''being evicted from here because of a TV'' that she had kept on all night.
 ''Everybody who's back here, who's low income,'' Ms. Jones said, ''is being picked on.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); FAMILY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (72%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Housing; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Adam Nossiter; Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



298 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Vote No on a New U.N. Rights Council

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 14 

 BODY:
The United States will call for a General Assembly vote on the proposed Human Rights Council on Wednesday, and vote against it, a senior Bush administration official said Tuesday.
 ''We tried very hard to see if we could support this, but in the end we just didn't think this initiative met the very high bar we set for an effective council,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs. ''The U.N. needs a stronger body to fight human rights abuses in places like Darfur and Burma.''
The council is meant to replace the Human Rights Commission, which has been faulted for allowing notorious rights abusers like Sudan and Zimbabwe to become members. 
 The American vote will not block passage of the resolution by the General Assembly, where the vast majority of 191 member states support it. But it could open the measure to debilitating amendments from countries that oppose tightening the United Nations human rights system and want to see the entire project defeated.
 Jan Eliasson, the General Assembly president, who negotiated the final text, had hoped to submit it for approval by consensus, which would have forestalled actions by objecting nations.
 But that plan was upset by the American decision to vote no, announced by John R. Bolton, the United States ambassador, on Feb. 27.
 Since then, major human rights groups had mounted a global lobbying campaign to try to persuade the United States to reconsider, and the European Union had sent pledges that its members would keep objectionable candidates off the panel.
 Mr. Bolton said the text should be renegotiated, but Mr. Eliasson resisted the idea, predicting that such action would open a ''Pandora's box'' of suggestions from countries that oppose stricter human rights standards.
 The council was proposed a year ago by Secretary General Kofi Annan with terms that would effectively bar such countries from joining the panel, but in the version that emerged last month after long negotiations and refinements, those guarantees were weakened.
 The proposal calls for a council of 47 members instead of the current commission's 53. It would have new restrictions on membership, the means to make timely interventions in crises and a year-round presence, with three meetings a year lasting a total of at least 10 weeks.
 The Geneva-based commission meets once a year for six weeks, and this year's session, scheduled to have begun Monday, was postponed until next week to permit negotiators in New York to try to settle the dispute with the United States.
 The council proposal calls for direct elections of members by the General Assembly and sets up ways of evicting those found guilty of abuse. But it dropped a crucial element of Mr. Annan's original plan: a requirement that new members be elected by two-thirds of those voting.
 Developing nations objected to that provision, and Mr. Eliasson negotiated a compromise: approval by a majority of Assembly members -- or 96 votes -- replacing the current simple majority of those voting.
 Mr. Burns said that while the United States would not back the council's creation on Wednesday, it would not shun it in the future.
 ''Despite the fact that we aren't going to be able to vote for creation of the council, we do want to support human rights at the U.N.,'' he said. ''So we will work with the council, we will seek to support it when we can, to strengthen it, and we certainly won't do anything to harm it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) United Nations; United Nations High Commission for Human Rights; European Union

PERSON: John R (Amb) Bolton; R Nicholas (Under Sec) Burns; Warren Hoge

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



299 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words

 BODY:
An article on Friday about a study on the economic and social impact of the growth in the number of Americans over age 65 paraphrased imprecisely from an observation by Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging. Although he acknowledged in response to a question that there is some public concern that older Americans would drain government coffers and devour health care resources, he himself did not express that fear. He said decreasing disability rates among older Americans could blunt such economic effects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006



300 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Airbus, China and Quid Pro Quo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: The Giant of Aviation Markets Seems Just the Place to Put a Factory 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and KEITH BRADSHER; Mark Landler reported from Frankfurt for this article and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong. Louis Uchitelle contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 14 

 BODY:
Airbus is in the late stages of negotiations to build an assembly line for its A320 passenger plane in China, a landmark deal that would significantly lift its prospects for business there. 
 Producing European planes in China would open a new front in the battle between Airbus and Boeing for the world's next great aviation market, as well as underscore the growing role of state enterprises in the global economy.
Four Chinese cities are vying for the plant, which would produce up to four A320's a month, in cooperation with Chinese state-owned aerospace manufacturers, industry experts said. The A320 is a short-haul jet that serves primarily domestic routes, which are booming across China.
 On the short list for the project, these experts said, are Tianjin, a port near Beijing; Xian, an aircraft-manufacturing center in north-central China; Shanghai, the site of a McDonnell Douglas assembly plant that has closed; and Zhuhai, a port near Hong Kong. 
 While some analysts said Tianjin appeared to have an edge and Zhuhai was the dark-horse candidate, two senior executives close to Airbus said the competition was still undecided. The executives said they could speak only anonymously because of the delicacy of the negotiations. Airbus and the Chinese government are expected to make a final decision sometime this summer.
 The collaboration between a government-subsidized company from Europe and state-owned aircraft manufacturers in China would be a striking example of the new prominence of state enterprises worldwide -- a development that has worried some critics in the United States.
 The recent uproar over a Dubai-controlled company that was blocked from acquiring the operations of six American ports illustrates the political sensitivities of such cases. The company, DP World, defused an outcry in Congress by agreeing to divest itself of its American holdings.
 Aircraft technology has long raised security concerns in the United States because of its capacity for military use. Putting an assembly line in China would add to those concerns, analysts said. 
 ''Any major investment in Chinese production facilities by Airbus will be used in the U.S. Congress to demonstrate a dangerous looseness in the sharing of sensitive technology,'' said Loren Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a policy lobbying group in Arlington, Va.
 ''No matter what they say,'' he added, ''it is one step further down the path toward Chinese technology parity with the West.''
 Airbus, owned by an alliance of European aerospace companies and based in Toulouse, France, has said it is well aware of these arguments, but that a final assembly line in China would not pose a danger. 
 Publicly, Airbus has said only that it is considering a number of Chinese cities for a plant to produce A320's. It has not said which cities, nor has it committed itself to an agreement.
 ''We are looking at sites,'' a spokeswoman for Airbus, Barbara Kracht, said. ''Locations are being investigated, and until things are finalized, we won't discuss the various options.''
 The plant would essentially clamp together parts of the A320, a small part of the manufacturing process. More than half the components, including technology-rich elements like the cockpit, would be made in Europe and flown to China. The two senior executives close to Airbus said the portion of work at the China plant would represent 4 percent to 5 percent of the value of the aircraft. 
 Even some traditionally sharp critics of China, like Larry M. Wortzel, the chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, said the final assembly of A320's in China would be unlikely to transfer militarily important technology to the Chinese.
 If anything, he said in an interview, it might teach China's aviation industry better quality control.
 The transfer of secrets for the fabrication of high-grade alloys for jet engine manufacture or of certain composite materials -- not moves that Airbus has said it would consider -- would be more of an issue.
 ''It would not pay to transfer that technology to China, but assembly -- I don't have a problem with that,'' Mr. Wortzel said.
 Airbus has put China at the center of its expansion plans, aiming to capture half of a market that it thinks could nearly double, to 1,790 aircraft, by 2022. Airbus has 344 planes in service in China, Hong Kong and Macao, but Boeing still dominates, with nearly two-thirds of the market.
 In December, China placed an order for 150 A320's with a list price of close to $10 billion. China and Airbus announced the order during a visit to France by China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, when Airbus pledged to consider the production line.
 Analysts interpreted the announcement as a quid pro quo, showing the lengths to which Airbus has had to go to break into the Chinese market, despite being active there since 1985.
 George Behan, a spokesman for Representative Norman Dicks, a Democrat from Washington State, where Boeing's commercial aircraft division is based, said he saw little surprise in Airbus's moves: "This is Airbus's modus operandi, the way they intend to compete with Boeing internationally.''
 Boeing has no plans to build a production line in China, but it has still won orders to supply 150 of its 737's to Chinese carriers. Seventy of those are firm contracts and the rest commitments. Like the A320, the 737 is a single-aisle aircraft suitable for short-haul domestic routes.
 Boeing has also booked orders from the Chinese for 60 of its new medium-size double-aisle plane, the 787 -- with parts of it to be manufactured in Japan. The carriers include Air China, Shanghai Airlines, Hainan Airlines, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines.
 For Europe, Airbus is also a potent tool to cultivate commercial ties with China. Chinese leaders and President Jacques Chirac of France have celebrated visits to each other's capitals by signing aircraft deals.
 Beyond the assembly line, Airbus has pledged to buy more aircraft parts from Chinese manufacturers, increasing its procurement to $120 million a year by 2010 from $14.5 million in 2003. Airbus and the China Aviation Industry Corporation have opened an engineering center, which will eventually employ 500 engineers, working on a new Airbus plane, the A350.
 Analysts said, however, that Airbus might not gain much profit from assembling a plane like the A320 in China. Single-aisle planes tend to have thinner profit margins, and less advanced technology, than twin-aisle planes like the new A380 super-jumbo or Boeing's 787 and 747.
 The demand for planes in China is so strong, said a person close to Airbus, that it could run its Chinese assembly line at full throttle and still have to supply A320's from its European factories.
 Airbus, however, will have to contend with workers in France and Germany, who fear the loss of skilled jobs to China. Anticipating that, the company said last month that it would add 1,250 jobs in Germany this year, mostly at its Hamburg plant, where it also assembles A320's.
 Unlike cars, planes cost very little to deliver -- they are simply fueled and flown there. But shipping bulky aircraft parts long distances to assembly plants can be very expensive.
 So while automakers like Toyota and Honda have built factories in the United States, aircraft manufacturers have generally preferred to keep production near their bases of operations -- Seattle in Boeing's case, and Toulouse, France, and Hamburg, Germany, in Airbus's case.
 ''Everything else being equal, you would never choose to put a production line in China,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group, an aerospace consulting firm in Fairfax, Va.
 While tirelessly marketing its planes in China, Boeing has shown no enthusiasm for assembling jetliners there. But like Airbus, which buys emergency exit doors for the A320 from a supplier in Shenyang, Boeing sees good reasons to buy a range of parts in China for single-aisle jets.
 It is buying 737 horizontal stabilizers, made in Shanghai, and Boeing 737 vertical fins and trailing edge wing ribs, manufactured in Xian.
 As Robert Laird, Boeing's vice president for sales of commercial aircraft in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao and the Philippines, puts it: ''We have seen the strategic importance of China both for our aircraft and as a supplier for parts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by Reuters)(pg. C1)
 China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, second from right, visited France in December, and Airbus pledged to consider building a plant in China. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%) Airlines and Airplanes; Production; International Trade and World Market; Airlines and Airplanes; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (90%); DP WORLD LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Airbus Industrie; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); DPW (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%) Mark Landler; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%) China; Europe; Tainjin (China); Xian (China); Shanghai (China); Zhuhai (China)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



301 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: In Iran, a Chorus of Dissent Rises On Leadership's Nuclear Strategy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, March 14 

 BODY:
Just weeks ago, the Iranian government's combative approach toward building a nuclear program produced rare public displays of unity here. Now, while the top leaders remain resolute in their course, cracks are opening both inside and outside the circles of power over the issue. 
 Some people in powerful positions have begun to insist that the confrontational tactics of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have been backfiring, making it harder instead of easier for Iran to develop a nuclear program. 
This week, the United Nations Security Council is meeting to take up the Iranian nuclear program. That referral and, perhaps more important, Iran's inability so far to win Russia's unequivocal support for its plans have empowered critics of Mr. Ahmadinejad, according to political analysts with close ties to the government.
 One senior Iranian official, who asked to remain anonymous because of the delicate nature of the issue, said: ''I tell you, if what they were doing was working, we would say, 'Good.' '' But, he added: ''For 27 years after the revolution, America wanted to get Iran to the Security Council and America failed. In less than six months, Ahmadinejad did that.''
 One month ago, the same official had said with a laugh that those who thought the hard-line approach was a bad choice were staying silent because it appeared to be succeeding.
 As usual in Iran, there are mixed signals, and the government does not always speak with the same voice.
 On Tuesday, both Mr. Ahmadinejad and the nation's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, insisted in public speeches that their country would never back down. At the same time, Iranian negotiators arrived in Moscow to resume talks -- at Iran's request -- just days after Iran had rejected a Russian proposal to resolve the standoff. 
 Average Iranians do not seem uniformly confident at the prospect of being hit with United Nations sanctions. 
 From the streets of Tehran to the ski slopes outside the city, some people have begun to joke about the catch phrase of the government -- flippantly saying, ''Nuclear energy is our irrefutable right.''
 Reformers, whose political clout as a movement vanished after the last election, have also begun to speak out. And people with close ties to the government said high-ranking clerics had begun to give criticism of Iran's position to Ayatollah Khamenei, which the political elite sees as a seismic jolt. 
 ''There has been no sign that they will back down,'' said Ahmad Zeidabady, a political analyst and journalist. ''At least Mr. Khamenei has said nothing that we can interpret that there will be change in the policies.'' 
 But, he said, ''There is more criticism as it is becoming more clear that this policy is not working, especially by those who were in the previous negotiating team.''
 There are also signs that negotiators are starting to back away, however slightly, from a bare-knuckle strategy and that those who had initially opposed the president's style -- but remained silent -- are beginning to feel vindicated and are starting to speak up. 
 A former president, Mohammad Khatami, recently publicly criticized the aggressive approach and called a return to his government's strategy of confidence-building with the west. 
 ''The previous team now feels they were vindicated,'' said Nasser Hadian, a political science professor at Tehran University who is close to many members of the government. ''The new team feels they have to justify their actions.''
 Ayatollah Khamenei, who has the final say, issued a strong defense of Iran's position on Tuesday. 
 ''The Islamic Republic of Iran considers retreat over the nuclear issue, which is the demand of the Iranian people, as breaking the country's independence that will impose huge costs on the Iranian nation,'' he said.
 ''Peaceful use of nuclear technology is a must and is necessary for scientific growth in all fields,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. ''Any kind of retreat will bring a series of pressures and retreats. So, this is an irreversible path and our foreign diplomacy should defend this right courageously.''
 In a speech in northern Iran, Mr. Ahmadinejad called on the people to ''be angry'' at the pressure being put on Iran.
 ''Listen well,'' the president said to a crowd chanting ''die'' as they punched the air with their fists. ''A nuclear program is our irrefutable right.''
 When Mr. Ahmadinejad took office, he embraced a decision already made by the top leadership to move toward confrontation with the West about the nuclear program. From the sidelines, Mr. Ahmadinejad's opponents remained largely silent as his political capital grew. 
 Iran's ability to begin uranium enrichment, and to remove the seals in January at least three nuclear facilities without any immediate consequences, was initially seen as a validation of the get-tough approach.
 But one political scientist who speaks regularly with members of the Foreign Ministry said that Iran had hinged much of its strategy on winning Russia's support. The political scientist asked not to be identified so as not to compromise his relationship with people in the government. 
 The political scientist said some negotiators believed that by being hostile to the West they would be able to entice Moscow into making Tehran its stronghold in the Middle East. ''They thought the turn east was the way forward,'' the person said. ''That was a belief and a vision.''
 The person added, ''They thought, 99 percent, Russia would seize the opportunity and back the Iranian leaders.'' 
 The route forward remains unclear as Iran tries to regain a sense of momentum. 
 There is a consensus here that Iran has many cards to play -- from its influence with the Shiites in Iraq to its closer ties to Hezbollah in Lebanon, to the prospect of using oil as a weapon. But the uncertainty of appearing before the Security Council, and the prospect of sanctions, has led some here to begin to rethink the wisdom of fighting the West head-on, analysts said.
 Professor Hadian said he believed that for Iran to fundamentally change course the situation for Iran would have to first grow much worse.
 ''There are concerns to keep the situation calm,'' said Mr. Zeidabady, the journalist. ''We have received orders not even to have headlines saying the case has been sent to the Security Council. Although the situation is very critical, they want to pretend that everything is normal. They do not want to show the country is coming under pressure and lose their supporters.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, right, and Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, spoke in Tehran yesterday to Iranian ambassadors. Below, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad toured northern Iran yesterday. (Photographs by Mehr News Agency, via Associated Press)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POLITICS (89%) Atomic Energy; Public Opinion; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); ALI KHAMENEI (89%) Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ali (Ayatollah) Khamenei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) Iran; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



302 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Italian Rivals Debate the U.S. Way: Boringly

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER and ERIC SYLVERS; Peter Kiefer contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ROME, March 14 

 BODY:
Many here hoped for the kind of public drama Italy loves, that something decisive might happen on this night Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and his challenger Romano Prodi finally faced each other in their first televised debate of this tight race. 
 But an unwelcome bit of America came to Italy on Tuesday night, in the form of a strictly orchestrated presidential debate. Answers were limited to two-and-a-half minutes. Interruptions were not allowed -- and, amazingly, no one did interrupt. 
''It's clear this is not a system where you can make a speech in an efficient way,'' grumbled Mr. Berlusconi, who, behind in the polls, needed to make a bigger impression and seemed to strain harder at the rules. 
 Mr. Prodi, of course, disagreed, as he did throughout the 90-minute debate, less than a month away from the voting on April 9 and 10. 
 ''This is a system that gives equality,'' he said. ''It is a system that is used by the United States. It is a good system.''
 That the debate lacked excitement seemed especially odd given that this remains an open race, in which perhaps the least predictable leader in Europe, Mr. Berlusconi, 69, in office for five years, is fighting hard for his political survival and having a tough time of it recently. 
 He is several points behind in the polls, with economic growth at zero and his brash, personal style of politics far less popular now than when he took office. His center-right coalition continues to erode, prosecutors are again breathing down his neck, and he lost a skirmish with Mr. Prodi on how the debates and television air time would be divvied up.
 On Sunday, when he stormed out of a television interview with a particularly persistent left-leaning reporter, his critics said he seemed to be cracking slightly under the pressure. 
 Compared with that performance, his debating skills on Tuesday seemed back to form. He was relaxed, communing with his usual skill with cameras, as he spilled forth figures on his accomplishments and tried to skewer his center-left opponent.
 ''The left holds an old ideology, with the same people that never change, that are recycled and that are inherited from an old ideology that views the state as an entity that the citizens must work for,'' he said in his closing remarks. 
 But Mr. Prodi, 66, a former prime minister and European Union commissioner, seemed unusually animated and combative, as he worked to dispel his reputation as dull and too much the professor he once was. (Mr. Berlusconi seemed to taunt him slightly by constantly referring to him as ''professor.'')
 ''You have had five years of uninterrupted government, and you talk as if you are in the opposition,'' Mr. Prodi said to Mr. Berlusconi, who had just reeled off a litany of failures of past leftist governments. ''What have you done?''
 Mr. Berlusconi, despite having admitted that he knew he needed to offer something new to invigorate his campaign, stuck largely to old themes -- a fact that Renato Mannheimer, one of Italy's top pollsters, said gave the debate, only narrowly, to Mr. Prodi. 
 ''He also was boring,'' Mr. Mannheimer said of Mr. Prodi. ''But if you compare him to other times, he was a little bit better than in the past, and Berlusconi was the same.'' 
 A poll released Tuesday by Mr. Mannheimer showed that 64 percent of Italians had already decided whom to vote for, and both men are chasing after the 24 percent of undecideds, only about 14 percent of whom seemed likely to vote. 
 But Mr. Berlusconi's old arguments still resonate with many voters: that the coalition of six parties that Mr. Prodi heads is unstable and cynical; that past center-left governments spent a lot and did little; that the left is beholden to the Communists, who are part of their coalition. 
 ''How is he going to get anything done when he will have Communists in his government?'' Mr. Berlusconi asked.
 Mr. Prodi hit back that Mr. Berlusconi had not lived up to his promises; had governed in a way that benefited him personally; and lacked the ''seriousness'' to be a suitable leader of one of Europe's leading nations. 
 Some Italian commentators have complained that the race, for all the serious economic problems Italy faces, has failed to come up with new ideas or new faces. Indeed, the debate on Tuesday had more than a whiff of the past in it: Mr. Berlusconi and Mr. Prodi had debated, if in a more free-wheeling form, in 1996.
 Mr. Prodi went on to win the race, but his government was toppled two years later. 
 Mr. Mannheimer said he expected the undecided voters to make up their minds in the last days of race, making the second and last debate between the two men, on April 3, the decisive one. 
 ''The second match will be more important,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, left, and his center-left opponent, Romano Prodi, before the start of their strictly orchestrated televised debate yesterday. One more debate is scheduled before the April 9-10 election. (Photo by Pier Paolo Cito/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%) Elections; Election Issues; Debating; Politics and Government; Public Opinion

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (91%); ROMANO PRODI (90%) Silvio (Prime Min) Berlusconi; Romano Prodi; Ian Fisher; Eric Sylvers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) Italy; Italy

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



303 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Rice, in Indonesia, Supports Renewed Military Assistance

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Wednesday, March 15 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sought Tuesday to expand a ''strategic partnership'' with Indonesia, including increased military cooperation, after the decision last year to resume military aid that had long been cut off because of Indonesia's poor human rights record.
 In a speech on Wednesday morning, she also sought to assure Indonesia that the United States believed strongly in the role of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, despite concerns here that the Bush administration had tried to bypass the group and make commercial and trade deals with individual members. 
 The centerpiece of the speech was a defense of the administration's promotion of democracy in troubled regions. She said Indonesia had proved it was possible to overcome sectarian and ethnic differences and forge a democratic system.
 Ms. Rice also said Indonesia had made progress in combating military corruption. ''A reformed and effective Indonesian military is in the interest of everyone in this region, because threats to our common security have not disappeared,'' she said.
 Ms. Rice was well received at her speech, to 500 business, academic and civic leaders at the Indonesia World Affairs Council, but she faced pointed questions about American policies, especially in Iraq and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Many in the audience also appeared to feel the United States was heavy-handed in its approach to Southeast Asia.
 To a questioner demanding to know why the United States uses force to get its way, Ms. Rice said that it was ''rare, very rare, that military power is needed'' to bring about change. On American policies toward Indonesia, she said: ''It's not paternalism, it's a partnership.''
 The session reflected what American officials say is lingering distrust of American intentions. Indonesia, for example, has not backed the United States approach to bring Iran to the United Nations Security Council. Also, Indonesia, and several other nations in the region, oppose the American effort to force a cutoff in ties to Myanmar, formerly Burma.
 On Tuesday, Ms. Rice and the Indonesian foreign minister, Hassan Wirajuda, used the phrase ''strategic partnership,'' reflecting American interest in building this country into a major commercial and military power in Southeast Asia, in part to help counter the influence of China.
 In the United States, the Defense Department has been pressing for a resumption of military aid to Indonesia, which was gradually phased out after Indonesian security forces fired on civilians protesting Indonesian rule in East Timor in 1991. East Timor's vote for independence in 1999 removed a major obstacle to the resumption, but human rights groups have opposed the idea.
 Ms. Rice stopped here on a swing across the Southern Hemisphere that started in Chile, over the weekend. Next she is going to Australia, another key ally in the South Pacific. State Department officials traveling with her said it was important that she underscore Washington's growing ties with Indonesia since the election of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in 2004. The officials said Mr. Yudhoyono sought to regain civilian control of Indonesia's military, attack corruption and improve the climate for American investment.
 Another objective of the trip for Ms. Rice was to try to reach out to Indonesia's predominantly Muslim population, which is distrustful of American intentions because of the Iraq war and the incarceration of terrorism suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Her visit here drew hundreds of Islamic hard-liners to protest outside the American Embassy, The Associated Press reported. 
 Partly because of American help after the tsunami in December 2004, amounting to $400 million in official aid, Indonesian approval ratings for the United States have risen to a high of about 50 percent, American officials said, citing what they said were recent opinion polls. Other polls show the rating to be roughly 40 percent.
 Ms. Rice sought to address the concerns of Muslims by touring a Muslim school that receives American funds. She also announced a new program to bring the characters of the television show ''Sesame Street'' to Indonesian audiences. The United States will provide $135 million this year in assistance to Indonesia.
 ''Sometimes I think there's a lack of understanding of how much the United States respects the people of Islamic faith,'' she said at a news conference with the foreign minister. 
 At the Muslim school, Ms. Rice chatted briefly with several boys and girls in a classroom. Later she said she wished Americans could see that this sort of school was different from the madrasas, seminaries that have a reputation for teaching extremism in many Islamic countries.
 Television cameras recorded the event for Indonesian audiences as she shook hands with an actor in an Elmo costume, though she had to be prompted before saying the name.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Rice spoke with teachers at a Jakarta Islamic school and later shook hands with an actor playing Elmo of ''Sesame Street.'' (Photo by Ed Wray/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (51%) United States International Relations; Islam; Television; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%) Steven R Weisman; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (95%); ASIA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); MYANMAR (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CHILE (79%); IRAQ (79%) Indonesia; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



304 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid Of Banking At Wal-Mart? 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IMAGINE that Wal-Mart announced it was going to open a new kind of store, one that would have all the benefits of the chain's low prices without a lot of the collateral damage.
 Shoppers who went to this store would save money, and they would be able to choose from a wider variety of products than they now do. But the store would not put mom-and-pop hardware stores out of business, and it would not steal jobs from unionized supermarket workers. It would mainly hurt mammoth corporations and Wall Street.
 Well, Wal-Mart has made an offer very much like this, again and again, over the last few years. It has tried to open a bank. And based on everything we know about the company, a Wal-Mart bank would almost certainly make life difficult for the Citigroups of the world and bring down A.T.M. fees. There is a good chance it would also persuade some people without savings accounts to open one. 
 But the answer from lawmakers has been the same every time: no. In 1999, Congress went out of its way to keep the company from buying an Oklahoma savings and loan. In 2002, the Legislature in California blocked a plan to buy a bank there.
 Chastened -- and well aware that they already have enough fights on their hands -- Wal-Mart executives are now floating a far narrower plan. They are applying for a bank charter that would merely allow the company to become its own middleman on credit card purchases, reducing transaction fees. The Wal-Mart Bank would not accept normal deposits or lend money. 
 But even for this limited purpose, the bank has generated an impressive list of opponents, on both the left and the right. The group includes big-business lobbyists, small banks, influential Republicans, Senator Hillary Clinton (who once was on Wal-Mart's board) and regular Wal-Mart critics like the A.F.L.-C.I.O. They worry that the new bank is a Trojan horse. Eventually Wal-Mart may help its customers open checking accounts and pay them interest.
 Imagine that. 
 FOR all the criticism of Wal-Mart -- much of it deserved -- you simply cannot argue with the fact that the company saves its customers money. It roots out inefficiencies, cuts the price on a product and forces its competitors to match. That is why it is easily the nation's most popular store.
 Now think about what would happen if Wal-Mart applied its legendary price-cutting to banking. Because starting a new bank is quite difficult, banks have been able to get away with things that other companies just can't. They refuse to give you access to money for days after you cash a check, even though the money itself now moves within minutes. And they have long ignored low-income families, because the banks can make enough money elsewhere.
 As a result, many of these families pay exorbitant fees to cash checks. They have credit card interest rates and mortgage rates that look as if they came out of the 1980's. It is not just poor people who are ill served by the financial-services business, either. More than half of American families still do not have their own retirement accounts. 
 Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary who was often a lonely voice of liberalism among the Clinton administration's economic centrists, describes Wal-Mart as ''not my favorite employer -- far from it.'' But he is also in favor of a Wal-Mart bank, for the very liberal-sounding reason that it would improve life for ordinary people. All the opposition to the plan, he added, ''is a pretty good indication that consumers would be helped if Wal-Mart could get in somehow.''
 To see what he means, take a look at just about the only thing Wal-Mart does that remotely resembles banking. At customer service desks near the front of most stores, you can cash a check for a flat fee of $3. By comparison, many check-cashing stores charge 3 percent of a check's value, or more than $10 on a $350 paycheck. Not surprisingly, Wal-Mart's check-cashing business is booming.
 But it is still no bargain. A two-income family that cashes all of its weekly checks at Wal-Mart could spend close to 1 percent of its after-tax income on the fees. Most of us with checking accounts pay nothing at all.
 So we allow Wal-Mart into one of the most exploitative parts of financial services, but we do not let the company try to make money by offering truly useful services. We let it offer a Wal-Mart-branded credit card (through General Electric) but do not let it sell retirement accounts to all the moderate-income Americans who shop there.
 ''Banks talk about going after the 'unbanked,' '' said Jane J. Thompson, president of Wal-Mart's financial-services group, ''but they don't do much to make them comfortable or to welcome them in.''
 Next month, banking regulators will hold hearings in the Washington and Kansas City, Mo., areas on Wal-Mart's application for a narrow charter. In an ideal world, the hearings would be examining how a Wal-Mart bank would need to be monitored differently from one owned by an investment company. The government would have to make sure, for example, that the bank was not pushing loans on customers to get them to buy more items at the store. 
 Unfortunately, though, these hearings will be more of a sideshow. Wal-Mart executives say they no longer plan to start a real bank, at least not anytime soon. Instead, they are signing 15-year leases to rent space to existing banks, which are then opening branches inside Wal-Mart stores. And the company's application for a charter -- which, again, would allow it to reduce its own credit card processing fees -- will probably be approved, despite the opposition.
 But I don't think this issue is going to go away. Ben S. Bernanke, the new Federal Reserve chairman, has been saying recently that the law should be clearer about what kinds of companies can own banks. Eventually, there needs to be a larger discussion about why we unnecessarily restrict bank competition -- an issue that should resonate with both Republicans and Democrats.
 Remember that this is not a fight between Wal-Mart and the little guy. It's a fight between Wal-Mart and Wall Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); LOBBYING (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Banks and Banking; Credit and Money Cards; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Interest Rates; Checks and Checking Accounts; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



305 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Fell in February, But Not as Much as Expected

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Retail sales fell sharply in February from a big spike the month before, the government reported yesterday, as the weather turned cooler, car sales dropped and gasoline prices eased.
 Sales at retail stores and food establishments dropped 1.3 percent in February, the Commerce Department reported, the first monthly decline in six months. Sales jumped 2.9 percent in January, which had the highest average national temperature ever recorded for the month. Sales rose 0.3 percent in December. 
In another report, the Commerce Department said that the current-account deficit, the broadest measure of the nation's trade, widened by 20.5 percent in 2005, to $804.9 billion, a record. The increase primarily reflected previously reported data on the nation's growing deficit in the trade of goods and services, with smaller changes recorded in the balance of financial transfers.
 Retail sales, though recording a decline, did not drop as much as economists had expected. Excluding car sales, which dropped 4.6 percent in the month and have seesawed in recent months as carmakers phased models and discounts in and out, retail sales were down 0.4 percent.
 Sales at gasoline stations dropped 1.6 percent in February after jumping 4.3 percent in January, as prices dipped slightly from an average of $2.31 a gallon to $2.28 a gallon; gasoline sales were still about 17.7 percent higher from February 2005.
 Furniture and home furnishings sales dropped 4 percent from January; clothing sales fell 3.3 percent, and restaurant and bar sales slipped 1.9 percent.
 ''January was such a ridiculous blowout,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc., a consulting firm, ''so to only get this partial correction in February shows some decent underlying activity from the consumer.''
 Mr. Shapiro and other analysts said the trend in retail sales assured a strong showing for the economy in the first quarter of 2006. Last week, the government also reported a second month of strong gains in employment and wages, typically the leading factor in consumer behavior.
 But economists are less certain and unified about the economy's prospects in the second half of the year. If the current slowdown in home sales and mortgage and home equity lending persists or intensifies into the spring and summer, when the housing market is usually at its peak, that could curb consumer spending.
 Interest rates, though still near historical lows, have inched higher in recent months and Federal Reserve officials have indicated they may raise short-term rates again this month.
 ''There certainly is a little bit of a tug of war between what the analysts are seeing,'' Jack Caffrey, an equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, said, referring to Wall Street's uncertainty about the economy.
 In addition to Fed policy, borrowing costs in the United States have been kept low in part by a strong, steady flow of funds from overseas. Foreigners invested about $801 billion more in American assets and investments last year than Americans did in other countries, according to the Commerce Department. Much of that money went into stocks and bonds.
 Foreign investment in the United States allows the nation to import more than it exports. In the fourth quarter, the current account, which includes transfer and income payments in addition to the trade in goods and services, widened by 21.3 percent, to $224.9 billion.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Inventory-Sales Ratio''Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted.Business Inventories and Sales Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.InventoriesDEC. -- $1,304.95JAN. -- 1,045.86SalesDEC. -- $1,310.12JAN. -- 1,059.51(Source by Commerce Department)Graph: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks retail and food service sales since 2004.Feb. -- -1.3%Jan. -- +2.9Dec. -- +0.3(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (95%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (79%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (79%); RESTAURANTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (60%) United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Food; Supermarkets; Sales; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



306 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Shares Near a 5-Year High As Goldman Leads Rally

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rallied to their highest levels since 2001 yesterday as bond yields tumbled and Goldman Sachs reported a quarterly profit that was much higher than expected.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for a third day, adding 13.35 points, or 1 percent, to 1,297.48, its best close since May 2001 and the biggest advance since Jan. 3.
The Dow Jones industrial average rallied 75.32 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,151.34, the highest since June 2001. The Nasdaq composite index increased 28.87 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,295.90. 
 A gauge of financial shares climbed 1.2 percent and was the biggest contributor among 10 industry groups to the S.& P. 500's rally. 
 Goldman Sachs shares surged $8.70, or 6.2 percent, to $149.42 after the firm said net income for the first quarter jumped to $2.48 billion, or $5.08 a share. Goldman's earnings were greater than it netted in all of fiscal 2002, and topped the highest analyst estimate by more than 60 percent.
 Lehman Brothers Holdings, which announces earnings today, rose $3.08, to $145.30. Bear Stearns, which reports tomorrow, added $3.41, to $134.53. Morgan Stanley, which releases earnings next week, gained $1.24, to $60.03.
 Google rose $14.10, or 4.2 percent, to $351.16, snapping a six-day losing streak that was its longest ever. A federal judge said that the company would have to turn over some customer data to the government as part of an effort to uphold an online pornography law, but that the amount would be limited.
 Shares of D. R. Horton, the nation's largest home builder, added $2.13, or 6.8 percent, to $33.68 for the best performance in the S.& P. 500. The stock was raised to outperform from neutral by Ivy Zelman, an analyst at Credit Suisse.
 Shares of energy companies gained as oil prices rose by more than $1 a barrel amid forecasts of lower inventories of gasoline. Crude oil gained 2.2 percent, to $63.10, in New York. 
 Valero Energy, the nation's largest oil refiner, added $1.03, to $56.68. Schlumberger, the oil field services company, rose $3.38, to $120.45.
 A measure of material stocks gained 1.7 percent on analyst upgrades of Phelps Dodge and United States Steel, as well as higher prices for copper and gold. Phelps Dodge, the copper producer, gained $4.02, to $71.46. United States Steel rose $2.24, to $57.68.
 Chipotle Mexican Grill jumped $5.29, to $48.70. The company, which went public in January, had fourth-quarter profit of 16 cents a share as sales climbed 36 percent. Five analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected 11 cents.
 Procter & Gamble lost $1.97, or 3.2 percent, to $60.01 after failing to raise its profit forecast above analysts' expectations. The decline was the biggest in the Dow average.
 Comverse Technology, a maker of voice mail software, fell $4.30, or 15 percent, to $24.85 for the steepest decline in the S.& P. 500. The company said it might restate its results after an accounting review related to stock option grants. Its shares were also downgraded to neutral from buy at Merrill Lynch.
 The market had its broadest rally in more then three months, with four stocks rising for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.56 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 5.4 percent less than the three-month average.
 In the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 18/32, to 98 15/32.. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.69 percent, from 4.77 percent on Monday. 
 Yields dropped after Medley Global Advisors, a company that provides research to hedge funds, said in a report that most Fed policy makers wanted to stop raising interest rates after one or two more quarter-point increases. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills and 12-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.658
High Rate -- .395
Coupon Yield -- 4.471
Low Rate -- 4.350
Median Rate -- 4.380
Total applied for -- $42,480,804
Accepted -- $20,217,199
Noncompetitive -- $321,649

The four-week bills mature April 13, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.987
Investment Rate -- 4.472
High Rate -- 4.410
Low Rate -- 4.250
Median Rate -- 4.380
Total applied for -- $18,006,000
Accepted -- $4,000,000
Noncompetitive -- $-0-

The 12-day cash management bills mature March 15, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond-equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); COPPER MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); COPPER INDUSTRY (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (54%); D R HORTON INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (52%); CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (51%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); DHI (NYSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); VLO (NYSE) (52%); CMG (NYSE) (51%); X (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



307 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: New Home Downtown for the Actors Studio

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE; Compiled by Ben Sisario

 BODY:
After being homeless for nearly a year, the Actors Studio has found a new residence at Pace University in Lower Manhattan, which will establish a three-year Master of Fine Arts program with the venerable theatrical institution. The Actors Studio, where stars including Marlon Brando, Marilyn Monroe, right, and Al Pacino trained, had run the New School University's drama department for more than a decade before the school severed ties with it last May. The studio had already been using Pace's Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts to film ''Inside the Actors Studio,'' a Bravo television series with James Lipton that features major actors and directors discussing their craft. The M.F.A. program still needs the approval of the New York State Department of Education, but David A. Caputo, the president of Pace, said he expected to enroll 60 students in it this fall and expand to 180 students in three years. By 2009, the program is to produce its spring repertory program in Lower Manhattan. Ellen Burstyn, one of the three co-presidents of the Actors Studio, said, ''We're very excited about taking part in the redevelopment of downtown.'' FELICIA R. LEE 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a report in the ''Arts, Briefly'' column yesterday about a Master of Fine Arts program planned by Pace University in Lower Manhattan with the Actors Studio referred incorrectly to the present and future location of the studio. It was not homeless for nearly a year, and it will remain on West 44th Street. It does not have a new home downtown at Pace; what is new is its affiliation with Pace, after an 11-year collaboration with the New School that ended last May.
Because of an editing error, a report in the ''Arts, Briefly'' column yesterday about a Master of Fine Arts program planned by Pace University in Lower Manhattan with the Actors Studio referred incorrectly to the present and future location of the studio. It was not homeless for nearly a year, and it will remain on West 44th Street. It does not have a new home downtown at Pace; what is new is its affiliation with Pace, after an 11-year collaboration with the New School that ended last May.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); APPROVALS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); THEATER (58%) Colleges and Universities; Graduate Schools and Students; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Pace University; Actors Studio

PERSON: Felicia R Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



308 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Negotiations Break Down in Effort to Rebuild World Trade Center 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Talks to resolve the fate of ground zero broke down last night shortly before midnight when a last minute-counterproposal from Larry A. Silverstein, the developer of the site, caused state officials to accuse him of negotiating in bad faith.
 Gov. George E. Pataki had given Mr. Silverstein, the developer who holds the lease for the World Trade Center site, until yesterday to work out a series of disputes with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the property, over the development of the 16-acre parcel. Governor Pataki was eager to put the disputes to rest in time for an April groundbreaking for the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower. 
 Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and New York's chief economic development official, said that earlier in the evening, state officials had thought there was a framework for an agreement that would have settled who would build what, and when, on the trade center site.
 He said that the state and the Port Authority had made a number of concessions of regarding Mr. Silverstein's rent, his use of Liberty Bonds and the authority's willingness to take over development of the Freedom Tower, the largest, most symbolic skyscraper to be built at ground zero.
 ''We are terribly disappointed,'' Mr. Gargano said ''We thought we were negotiating in good faith. He clearly demonstrated that greed is his main motivation. Unless we get this right, we will walk away rather than make a bad deal for the Port Authority, the city and the nation.''
 He said that no new bargaining sessions had been scheduled. In all likelihood, the impasse will cause a delay in the groundbreaking for the Freedom Tower. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Silverstein, Howard J. Rubenstein, said that the developer regretted that the Port Authority had ''elected to suspend the talks.'' 
 ''The Silverstein organization is available and willing to resume intensive, around-the-clock discussions as soon as the Port Authority is ready. This temporary setback can and must be overcome with Governor Pataki's leadership, and with the good faith efforts of all parties. We believe we can quickly finalize this agreement that will assure speedy rebuilding of the World Trade Center.'' 
 But Mr. Gargano said that the documents that the Silverstein camp provided late last night ''clearly demonstrated that they were not negotiating in good faith.'' He said that the Port Authority and Governor Pataki had made a series of concessions to Mr. Silverstein in an effort to resolve all differences and to accelerate the rebuilding effort. He said that was not enough. 
 Two people involved with the negotiations said earlier in the day that the talks ''nearly blew up'' several times yesterday, but tempers cooled and the talks continued. Around 7 p.m., the governor called Mr. Silverstein, urging him to resolve the matter quickly. State officials hoped to announce the framework of a deal shortly, but as midnight approached, there was no announcement of an agreement. 
 Under a proposal discussed yesterday, the Port Authority, not Mr. Silverstein, would build the Freedom Tower, the least economically feasible of five skyscrapers. The authority would also take control of a second site for a tower that would be built at Greenwich and Cedar Streets, where the heavily damaged Deutsche Bank building still stands.
 Mr. Silverstein, in turn, would develop what all sides view as the most desirable office sites for three towers and a shopping mall, next to the $2 billion PATH terminal under construction on Church Street.
 A host of thorny money issues were involved in the negotiations, ranging from the allocation of $2.9 billion in insurance money to a recalibration of Mr. Silverstein's rent, which will rise to $125.25 million a year in July from $107.25 million, and his share of the infrastructure costs at ground zero.
 According to people in the negotiations, the Port Authority rejected Mr. Silverstein's insistence that he retain the bulk of the insurance money and get a hefty reduction in his rent. At the same time, he has rebuffed the Port Authority's proposal for his share of infrastructure costs.
 , The Port Authority, whose board's approval is needed for any deal, does not want to take on the Freedom Tower without the money to make it feasible. The authority wants roughly one-third of the insurance money, about $1 billion, for the Freedom Tower, according to one person involved with the negotiations.
 Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the authority, had said that he wanted to funnel money from some of the projects into the memorial planned for the site. Mr. Coscia had proposed his own resolution: The authority would build two towers on Church Street, while Mr. Silverstein would proceed with the Freedom Tower and a second tower.
 Governor Pataki has said that the Freedom Tower is more about restoring the New York skyline with a symbol of resilience than it is about economics. But even executives in the Silverstein camp concede that the tower will be difficult to lease, because of its size, its relative distance from public transportation and because it is viewed by corporate tenants as a potential target.
 In a sign of the importance of the talks, which began about 8:30 a.m. yesterday, Governor Pataki sent a high-level delegation to the bargaining table at the Port Authority's offices, including John Cahill, his chief of staff; Kenneth J. Ringler Jr., the authority's executive director; Joseph Seymour, the former director; and Mr. Gargano, along with the authority's advisers from Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate firm.
 Mr. Silverstein, who was being advised by Morgan Stanley, was in and out of the talks yesterday. His chief negotiator was Martin Lipton, a powerful Wall Street lawyer.
 Although Mr. Silverstein has said he has both the will and the means to build all five towers, state officials, Port Authority executives and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are concerned that the developer will run out of money in 2010 after building only two towers, default on his lease and walk away with millions of dollars in profit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BAD FAITH (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORISM (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



309 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: State Acquires 2,500 Acres Of Wilderness Near Preserve

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
New York State has acquired a 2,500-acre tract of wilderness along the Shawangunk Ridge in Ulster County and plans to use the land to expand the adjoining Minnewaska State Park Preserve, state officials announced yesterday.
 Two conservation groups, The Trust for Public Land and the Open Space Institute, negotiated the deal in recent months and bought the land on Friday for $17 million. The property was immediately transferred to the state.
''It's something that is really one of the great landmarks of New York,'' said Gov. George E. Pataki in a telephone interview after the closing. ''The thought that it would have been filled with very large and environmentally unfriendly second homes is something that weighed heavily on a lot of minds. Now it will be preserved for future generations.'' 
 The Shawangunks -- affectionately called ''the Gunks'' -- consist of cliffs, forests, waterfalls and lakes. Situated south of the Catskill Mountains, the ridge runs for 48 miles on the west side of the Hudson River, from Ulster County into New Jersey. The area attracted nature enthusiasts in the Victorian era and is still enormously popular among rock climbers, hikers and artists.
 Large swaths of the ridge's northern portion had been protected years ago through conservation efforts, including the formation of Minnewaska Park (12,000 acres), the Mohonk Preserve (6,600 acres) and Sam's Point Preserve (5,300 acres).
 But the 2,518 acres known as the Awosting Reserve, just south of Minnewaska and about 80 miles northwest of New York City, had eluded conservation groups.
 It became the center of a development battle that pitted environmentalists and local residents against a business partnership that had proposed a development with a 296-acre golf course and 349 luxury homes.
 The man who assembled the land, John Atwater Bradley, a local resident and self-described conservationist, maintained that the property would be better protected by creating a low-density, ecologically sensitive housing development than by turning it over to the state.
 Mr. Bradley went into partnership with a developer and together they sketched out a ''green community,'' with Adirondack-style houses fashioned of stone and timber, set back from the ridge line. A nature center and nonprofit land trust were also contemplated.
 But many residents and conservationists did not share the vision, arguing that the houses and golf course would tarnish an unspoiled wilderness by disrupting vistas and compromising the nearby preserves.
 ''Save the Ridge'' signs popped up along roadsides and in store windows throughout the region. Some were spotted as far away as Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where some artists with weekend homes live during the week.
 Soon after the development partnership presented the plan to the Town of Gardiner, the partnership became bogged down in disagreement, leading to legal action among the principals. A judge ordered the land sold in order to settle the dispute, and a court-appointed lawyer last fall considered several bids, including some from developers. 
 ''This is the last important piece in a huge conservation assemblage,'' said Rose Harvey, a senior vice president of The Trust for Public Land who oversees the Mid-Atlantic region.
 Joe Martens, president of the Open Space Institute, said in a statement that the Awosting Reserve was ''the holy grail of the Shawangunks.'' 
 Still, some local officials praised Mr. Bradley for keeping the property intact. ''For four decades, he has been the steward of that property and has maintained its pristine nature rather than break it up into smaller developments,'' said Carl Zatz, the supervisor of the Town of Gardiner. 
 Since taking office in 1995, Mr. Pataki has overseen the protection of almost one million acres of open space across the state. Ms. Harvey credited the state for being ''fast and efficient and flexible'' in coming up with the money to reimburse the groups for the acquisition. State officials tapped the Environmental Protection Fund for the purchase.
 Mr. Pataki said he had hiked extensively in the Shawangunks and was ''very aware'' of the Awosting Reserve. ''Now we can just enjoy it,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Nicholas, project manager of the Trust for Public Land. His organization helped negotiate the purchase of the Awosting Reserve, long a goal of conservationists. The deal was announced by the state yesterday. (Photo by Daniel Morel for The New York Times)Map of Ulster, New York, highlighting the Awosting Reserve: The Awosting Reserve was at the center of a development battle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); STATE PARKS (91%); WILDERNESS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); HIKING (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); GOLF (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CLIMBING (67%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (91%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (84%) Trust for Public Land; Open Space Institute

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro; Philip Nicholas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Ulster County (NY); Minnewaska State Park Preserve (NYS); Shawangunk Mountains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



310 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Williamsburg Journal; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: The Good Life on South 11th Street

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
For more than a century, the book business flourished inside two brick warehouses on South 11th Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a block from the East River. Since the late 19th century, when the six-story structures were built between Berry Street and Wythe Avenue, they have often been occupied by publishers and presses, both recognized and rarefied.
 In recent decades, artists and performers moved in, but now they, along with the last remaining book publisher, may have to leave soon. 
In the fall of 2004, a real estate concern, DOV Land L.L.C., bought one of the warehouses, which includes 36 spaces in which people live or work. Residents said the new owner made it clear to some of them that it wanted them to move out and began eviction proceedings against others. About three dozen residents in 13 living spaces went on a rent strike, and have withheld their payments for about a year. 
 Now the tenants are waiting for a decision by a judge in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, who will determine whether they are protected by rent stabilization laws. If not, then many longtime residents, including an array of artists and artisans, members of two circuses and the last publisher in either warehouse, are likely to have to move.
 ''If we have to leave this building it'll almost certainly mean leaving New York City,'' said Jim Fleming, 56, who has lived on the fourth floor of 55-65 South 11th Street since 1982. ''Williamsburg has come to be thought of as hip, but we were a bunch of pioneer artists.''
 While living on South 11th Street, Mr. Fleming started Autonomedia, a nonprofit company that publishes criticism by authors like Dwight MacDonald, Guy Debord and Michel Foucault. Mr. Fleming and his companion, Lewanne Jones, 53, an archivist, live in a 2,700-square-foot loft -- with painted wooden floors and homemade wooden shelves holding Mr. Fleming's personal library of 60,000 volumes -- for which they had paid $787.35 a month since 1985. Since 1997, Autonomedia has used a space the same size on the second floor, with a rent of about $1,100. 
 Mr. Fleming and Ms. Jones, who have two children away in college, acknowledged that the rates they paid before joining the rent strike were well below market. They added that although the loft was spacious, life there was far from luxurious. Over the years, they said, they made their own plumbing repairs, paid for their own heat, and navigated streets lined with burned-out buildings. At times in the 1980's, Ms. Jones said, she was awakened by the sound of cars burning in the street outside; she said thieves would bring the cares there, strip them, and set them afire to dispose of them. 
 ''Market rate has been created by the fact that people want to come here because of communities that were created by people like us,'' she said.
 Gerard Proefriedt, a lawyer for the landlord, said his client had tried to negotiate with the tenants but without success. 
 ''Through changes in the neighborhood and inflation and other market forces, the rental values have gone up,'' Mr. Proefriedt said. ''The landlord, like any landlord who owns a building, wants to maximize rental income.'' Mr. Proefriedt refused to say what his client planned to do with the building. (The landlord also bought the other warehouse across the street, but many of the tenants there are protected by the loft law and cannot be easily evicted.)
 While market values on the north side of Williamsburg have been rising for several years, gentrification has taken hold more slowly in this part, the south side. But on Kent Avenue, four blocks from Mr. Fleming's loft, some units in a new 26-story development called Schaeffer Landing are listed at up to $2 million.
 More changes could be on the way nearby. Last May, the city approved an ambitious rezoning plan for the Williamsburg and Greenpoint waterfronts that will allow developers to build towers up to 40 stories tall. 
 Mr. Fleming said the two warehouses on South 11th Street were completed in 1870 and housed McLaughlin Brothers, which at the turn of the 20th century was one of the country's biggest companies making board games and publishing children's books. In the 1930's, he said, the American Book Company, which published school textbooks, moved in. 
 The cultural history of 55-65 South 11th Street took a more colorful turn as publishing faded. Alan Saret, known as an anti-form artist who makes wire sculptures, lives on the sixth floor, and the painter Jean-Michel Basquiat used a studio there in the 80's, Mr. Fleming said. 
 Two members of the Bindlestiff Family Cirkus live in rooms they built in the Autonomedia space on the second floor. On the floor above Mr. Fleming live Cindy Greenberg and Jennifer Miller, both members of the Circus Amok. Next door to them lives Gary Fierer, the singer in a band called Primordial Ooze.
 On Thursday afternoon, Ms. Greenberg, 37, stood in her 1,500-square-foot loft, for which she and Ms. Miller were paying $450 a month. A trapeze hung from bolts in the ceiling and a closet was crammed with costumes and props. 
 At times, the story of 55-65 South 11th Street has inspired performances. Ms. Greenberg said the circus performed a series of shows last year about a magical cat that comes to the aid of embattled tenants. 
 ''This is the headquarters, the storage, the rehearsal space, the living space,'' she said, noting that the circus is able to perform free because of the low overhead. ''If we get kicked out, the question of whether we'll be able to keep the circus going is up in the air.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 15 about a rent battle at an old warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, misstated the name of a publishing concern that was housed there in the late 19th century. It was McLoughlin Brothers, not McLaughlin.
An article on March 15 about a rent battle at an old warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, misstated the name of a publishing concern that was housed there in the late 19th century. It was McLoughlin Brothers, not McLaughlin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Fleming and Lewanne Jones, who may have to leave their 2,700-square-foot loft, can remember when the area was so bad that car thieves burned stolen cars in the street after stripping them for parts. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EVICTION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Housing; Lofts; Evictions; Renting and Leasing; Rent Control and Stabilization; Books and Literature; Printing and Allied Trades; Housing

ORGANIZATION: DOV Land LLC

PERSON: Colin Moynihan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



311 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Calling All Carnivores: P.J.'s Redux 

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
YOU can look at the new P. J. Clarke's in downtown Manhattan as an unremarkable illustration of the laws of supply and demand, as an economics lesson writ boozy and caloric. It puts broad slabs of beef, tall mounds of carbohydrates, stiff drinks and an atavistically musky atmosphere in the paths of hungry financial types, who have been known to respond to such things.
 Or you can take a dimmer view and see a dark capitalist allegory, a validation of the idea that no rarity is safe from replication or protected from conversion into a kind of franchise divorced from any particular place and time.
For many decades, there was only one P. J. Clarke's, and it was one of a kind. 
 It occupied (and still occupies) a squat building in the East 50's, a loud and proud saloon, dating back more than a century, where Scotch would never cede territory to flavored vodka. At P. J.'s you often didn't glance at a menu. You glanced at the blackboard, and if you couldn't read what was scrawled there, it meant you'd had too many pints or tumblers and should probably quit -- after one or two more.
 P. J.'s trafficked in its own singular history. Nat King Cole had a charge account there. Johnny Mercer supposedly wrote the hit song ''One for My Baby'' on a napkin at the bar. Aristotle Onassis and Jackie Kennedy had a favorite table and, of course, dibs on it.
 The new P. J.'s, a roughly 220-seat leviathan called P. J. Clarke's on the Hudson, certainly has history around it. The space it inhabits in Battery Park City, in a building complex that's also home to Merrill Lynch and American Express workers and a Starbucks with the longest midafternoon coffee lines I've ever seen, became available after 9/11 displaced businesses in the area.
 But P. J. Clarke's on the Hudson owes just as much to an impulse to peddle the P .J.'s mystique beyond its cradle. There's money in these initials, and the East Side isn't the only place to make it.
 Philip Scotti, who put together the group of investors that took over the original P. J.'s in 2002, and who is also an owner of its spawn, said in a telephone conversation that he has plans to keep the brood growing. He's all but finalized a deal to put a P. J.'s near Lincoln Center. He's had thoughts about Washington, and he's had 10 copies of the original's famously oversize, winged porcelain urinals made, at a total cost of about $80,000.
 Ten was the minimum order that a special ceramics manufacturer in Ohio would accept, he said. Two of these urinals were installed in the new P. J.'s. Four pairs remain. P. J.'s could be the first restaurant chain with a destiny manifestly influenced by lavatory flourishes. 
 In terms of food, the new P. J.'s, like the old P. J.'s, positions itself as an uncomplicated crowd pleaser. It's an American steakhouse (shrimp cocktail, iceberg wedge, T-bone for two, creamed spinach, cheesecake), a British pub (fish and chips, shepherd's pie), a brasserie (roasted chicken, steak tartare, oysters, other raw bar selections) and a diner (meatloaf, turkey club, corned beef Reuben) all wrapped into one.
 It's better than snobs would like to think and worse than contrarians would hasten to claim, which may be another way of saying that it's usually serviceable and sometimes respectable.
 It does nothing spectacularly well. It does some things badly. Its baked macaroni and cheese, almost stiff enough to be hoisted from its bowl in one clump, should be called macaroni and an unconfirmed rumor of cheese, and even that might be overstating dairy's role in the affair.
 For their part clams had seemingly minimized their involvement in a chowder named for them. Other dishes betrayed their pedigrees or purposes in other ways. A Caesar salad was insufficiently salty and excessively watery. French fries were stony, mashed potatoes pasty, lump crabmeat chalky.
 But apart from that crab, the raw bar selections, including chilled lobster, chilled shrimp, littleneck clams and cherrystone clams, suggested that P. J.'s was finding good ingredients and, in the cases of the lobster and shrimp, cooking them well.
 It's the kind of restaurant at which you can have a satisfying meal if you manage to hit the bright spots and avoid the dark ones. Heading toward the light means getting a 16-ounce rib-eye or that 36-ounce T-bone, both slightly charred, very juicy and just fatty enough when I tried them.
 It means crab cakes, moist, rich and more crabby than crumbly, which too often isn't the case. It means burgers, of course, which were plump and tender, though not exceptionally so. (Forget the bearnaise burger, which layered a gratuitous glob of undistinguished adornment on something that didn't need it.)
 And it means, for dessert, either rice pudding or a ''chocolate chip cookie souffle,'' which wasn't much of a souffle at all. It tasted like a chocolate chip cookie dough mousse, if such a thing can be said to exist. 
 Come warmer weather, these modest treats can be savored al fresco, and the views of the harbor and the Statue of Liberty, discernible now through a long wall of windows, will be even more striking. P. J. Clarke's on the Hudson has a generous amount of outdoor space that will accommodate some 275 additional seats. For now lunch and dinner are served indoors at tables with red-and-white checkered cloths. There's a black-and-white tiled floor, blackboards aplenty and dark wood galore. These motifs evoke the original without capturing its spirit or tapping into its myth.
 Light-filled, gleaming and so vast that the walk between the front tables and the bathrooms is almost a day's worth of cardio, this P. J.'s feels too polished, too mass-market, like an upbeat Beyonce cover of a downbeat Billie Holiday classic.
 Mr. Scotti said he could envision a P. J.'s in Las Vegas. It's no longer such a stretch.

P.J. Clarke's on the Hudson
SATISFACTORY
4 World Financial Center, near intersection of Vesey Street and the West Side Highway; (212) 285-1500.

ATMOSPHERE -- A musky midpoint between steakhouse and pub in an incredibly long space with about 220 indoor seats, a wall of windows and a view, in the distance, of Lady Liberty.
SOUND LEVEL -- Booming when crowded and only slightly less so when not, because of overloud music.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Raw seafood samplers; tomato and blue cheese salad; pigs in a blanket; burger with bacon and cheese; rib-eye steak; porterhouse for two; rice pudding; chocolate chip cookie souffle.
WINE LIST -- Relatively short, fairly conservative and almost entirely American, with many bottles for under $50.
PRICE RANGE -- Soups, salads, sandwiches and appetizers, $5.05 to $15.95; entrees, $11.90 to $38; desserts, $4.80 to $8.75.
HOURS -- 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. seven days a week.
RESERVATIONS -- Not accepted for lunch. Call a few hours in advance for dinner.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Entrance and entire restaurant on one level; restrooms accessible.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN:
(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
***Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics:
 nytimes.com/dining


GRAPHIC: Photo: A RIB-EYE FOR LADY LIBERTY -- P. J. Clarke's on the Hudson is a 220-seat room at the World Financial Center. (Photo by Shannon Greer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (75%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (72%) Restaurants; Reviews; World Financial Center (NYC)

COMPANY: P J CLARKE'S (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: P J Clarke's on the Hudson (NYC Restaurant)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



312 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: A Trend for Public REIT's: Going Private

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
CenterPoint Properties Trust, a leading developer of industrial property, has burnished its image over the last few years by transforming a former weapons factory in the Chicago suburb of Elwood into a successful intermodal railroad and warehouse complex. 
 CenterPoint had been a publicly traded real estate investment trust since 1993, but its solid reputation was not reflected in its share price. Analysts fretted when the company tried to spread its wings beyond its home base of Chicago. The sudden dismissal last year of a top executive also dragged down the stock.
Fortunately for CenterPoint, executives at the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or CalPers, the nation's largest pension fund, saw things differently. CalPers, a joint venture partner with CenterPoint for the last five years, liked the company's plan to build additional intermodal centers -- where shipping containers from around the world are transferred from long freight trains to shorter trains or trucks. CalPers also had great confidence in CenterPoint's management, said Jose McNeil, who manages the pension fund's industrial portfolio. 
 So last fall, CalEast Industrial Investors, a joint venture between CalPers and LaSalle Investment Management, a division of Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle that invests in real estate for pension funds and other institutional investors, made the kind of move that is occurring with increasing frequency. It bought CenterPoint for $3.4 billion, or $50 a share. The sale, representing a 13.1 percent premium above the average stock price over the three months before the deal was announced on Dec. 9, was completed last week. 
 Since 2004, 12 real estate investment trusts, or REIT's, representing all commercial property sectors -- office, industrial, retail, hotels and apartments -- have been acquired by private companies, and two other buyout offers are pending, both involving the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm in New York. Last week, Blackstone agreed to buy the CarrAmerica Realty Corporation, a large national office REIT based in Washington, for $5.6 billion, the richest price so far. Shareholders are expected to approve the deal this summer.
 Real estate specialists say more REIT's can be expected to go private as long as interest rates remain low, investors are flush with capital and private buyers and Wall Street analysts have disparate views of how much the underlying real estate is worth. ''I think it will continue as long as the stocks are cheap,'' said James S. Corl, the chief investment officer for real estate at Cohen & Steers, CarrAmerica's largest shareholder.
 As many as 10 other deals may be in the pipeline, said Richard D. Kincaid, the chief executive of Equity Office Properties Trust, a REIT based in Chicago that is almost certain to remain public because of its enormous size; it has interests in 615 office buildings, with 111.1 million square feet. 
 Jonathan L. Mechanic, the chairman of the real estate practice at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, said his firm was working on at least four possible deals.
 The announcement by Town and Country Trust, an apartment REIT based in Baltimore, that it had accepted a buyout offer from an investor group made up of Morgan Stanley Real Estate and the Onex Corporation of Canada, unleashed a bidding war with two other suitors. Shareholders approved the deal with Morgan Stanley last week, but not before the bid was raised from $33.90 a share to $40.20 a share.
 All this activity has helped to drive up share prices, even for REIT's that are not considered acquisition targets. ''The stocks are up another percent today,'' Chandler Spears, the portfolio manager for Davis Real Estate Fund of Santa Fe, a major shareholder in CenterPoint and other REIT stocks, said last week. ''It's almost getting a bit comical. It's like tech mania has hit REIT-land.'' 
 Since Dec. 31, REIT shares have risen 11.6 percent, according to Keven Lindemann, the director of real estate for SNL Financial, a research company based in Charlottesville, Va. Helping to spur the privatization trend is the widespread availability of debt financing, giving private buyers an advantage over public companies, which have traditionally limited their borrowing. ''There isn't a lot of precedent for highly leveraged REIT's,'' said Cameron W. Clough, a managing director of North American banking for Morgan Stanley Real Estate, which advised CalEast on the CenterPoint deal. ''The market would have a little trouble accepting it.''
 Blackstone, for example, is under no such constraints. The firm will borrow $4.25 billion to complete its purchase of CarrAmerica, the REIT said last week in a document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Blackstone declined to discuss its plans for CarrAmerica, which has buildings in two of the strongest office markets, Washington and Southern California, but is also well represented in Northern California, a market that has yet to recover from the technology bust.
 Mr. Kincaid, the Equity Office chief executive, however, speculated that Blackstone would sell CarrAmerica's trophy assets while holding onto its buildings in the Silicon Valley and San Francisco in anticipation of improvement in those markets.
 At CenterPoint, the company president, Paul S. Fisher, said he was relieved to be free of the requirements of being a public company, including the more stringent accounting practices imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which he described as a distraction. As a public company, CenterPoint had to disclose information before a transaction was completed, giving its competitors an advantage, Mr. Fisher said.
 In addition, he and Michael M. Mullen, the chief executive, had to spend too much of their time explaining their business to Wall Street, Mr. Fisher said. ''I'm now back doing transactions,'' he said. 
 But Dale Anne Reiss, who directs the global real estate practice at Ernst & Young, said that the availability of information had helped give the commercial real estate industry credibility. ''That's one of the things that's helped create the value in real estate,'' she said. ''Were we to lose that -- over a period of time, it could impact the values.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CarrAmerica, which is being bought by a private company, is a co-owner of 10 Universal City Plaza in Los Angeles, left. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)Graph:Private companies are showing an increasing appetite for publicly traded real estate investment trusts.Graph tracks private companies publicly trading real estate investment trusts since 2000. (Source by SNL Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (90%); TRENDS (90%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); TRAINS (72%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); ACQUISITIONS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); APPROVALS (62%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (52%) Real Estate; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Privatization; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Real Estate

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (85%); FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (83%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); COHEN & STEERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (91%) Blackstone Group; Carramerica Realty Corp

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (85%); JLL (NYSE) (58%); CNS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD D KINCAID (50%) Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



313 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Few Riders, Much Vision In Connecticut Rail Plan

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: WINDSOR LOCKS, Conn. 

 BODY:
The future would be all bustle and efficiency: Riders would step off commuter trains here throughout the day, breeze through a new station and then step onto shuttle buses that take them a few miles west to Bradley International Airport, where they jet off to spread the news that central Connecticut is built for business. 
 For now, however, there is just a concrete platform, a bench in a plexiglass shelter and Ken Shea, who confronted a sharp wind and not much else when he stepped down from the two-car Amtrak train he takes each day from New Haven. He was on his way to welding classes at a technical school in East Windsor, across the Connecticut River from the station, where he arrives, not always on time, on the 11:11 a.m. train. 
''I'm the only one I know who gets off here every day,'' said Mr. Shea, 41, one of about 600 people who ride the route to various points between New Haven and Springfield, Mass., on an average weekday. 
 If Mr. Shea's trip seems uncommon, he may be ahead of his time. Under a proposal supported by a wide range of legislators and planners and included in Gov. M. Jodi Rell's proposed budget, a few years from now the Windsor Locks station would become a critical business hub linking the airport to a new commuter rail line running on the existing Amtrak route from New Haven to Hartford to Springfield.
 The proposal calls for service every 30 minutes during peak hours at 11 stations each way. Amtrak trains now run more than an hour apart. Proponents say the project would ease traffic congestion, expand the state's business corridor and help revitalize several long-struggling cities in the center of the state hurt by continuing declines in manufacturing jobs, even as the state as a whole has the nation's highest per capita income. But the project would be a big money-loser, even by the standards of subsidized rail, where deficits are taken for granted. 
 How big a loser could depend on which of several versions of the idea, ranging in cost from $162 million to $600 million, is selected. The so-called fare-box recovery -- the percentage of operating costs paid by fares -- would be only 11 percent under a $291 million plan advocated by the state's Transportation Strategy Board. The State Department of Transportation expects a total of 2,428 people to ride the 62-mile line each day by the year 2025, though some estimates say ridership could reach 5,000. 
 A scaled down version of that proposal by Mrs. Rell, a Republican, would cost just $162 million, with $16 million coming from the federal government. Her aides said her version would save money by refurbishing older cars instead of buying new ones and putting off plans to build a maintenance facility for the line.
 The more expensive the project, the higher the operating costs. For instance, operating costs under Mrs. Rell's plan would be about $8.5 million each year, and $9 million under the strategy board's proposal. 
 Mrs. Rell's plan follows a $1.3 billion measure she pushed through the legislature last year that added 342 new cars to the Metro-North New Haven Line, spent $300 million for a new rail maintenance facility for that line and paid for improvements to some interstate highways. 
 Connecticut is currently served by the New Haven Line, which has branches to New Canaan, Danbury and Waterbury, and by Shore Line East, which runs from New Haven to New London. No commuter lines serve the Hartford area, which one transportation consultant famously called a ''cul-de-sac.''
 Despite the predictions of low ridership, supporters and some experts say similar projects across the country have generated new riders through the business and housing development they stimulate and by providing frequent, reliable service that eventually persuades suburban drivers to take the train, even if their destination is not a center city. 
 Planners say the new rail line is critical to creating what they call a ''virtuous cycle'' -- helping reduce suburban sprawl by encouraging ''transit-oriented development'' around new commuter stations while helping the state compete in the region with New Jersey, where commuter rail lines lace the state. 
 Some advocates see the proposed commuter line as a vindication of rail over the Interstate highway system, which expanded so rapidly here and elsewhere in the 1950's. 
 Wayne Drummond, the president of the New Haven Railroad Historical and Technical Association, said ''it was kind of a shocker'' when Mrs. Rell backed the new rail line in her budget address. For years, he said, ''Everybody wanted to lay concrete. Everybody wanted a car. Now the roads are all filled up.''
 Mr. Drummond, a retired New York police officer who fell in love with trains while growing up in the Bronx, echoed some of the same points planners make when they promote the new rail line: ''No eminent domain, no condemnation of properties, no one screeching about the environment.''
 For all its ambition, Mrs. Rell's transportation proposal, which also includes a $300 million commuter ''busway'' between New Britain and Hartford, may be the most modest one at the Capitol this year. James A. Amann, the House speaker and a Democrat, wants to spend more than $5 billion on projects ranging from the new rail line to busways to highway construction and improvements to Metro-North. The president pro tempore of the Senate, Donald E. Williams Jr., also a Democrat, supports the rail line as well as expanding rail freight.


GRAPHIC: Map of Connecticut highlighting the proposed commuter line: Proponents say the project would help revive central Connecticut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); TRENDS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Railroads; Economic Conditions and Trends; Bradley International Airport (Windsor Locks, Conn); Railroads

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (79%) William Yardley; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut ; Windsor Locks (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



314 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Senate Panel Interrogates Wary Oil Executives 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The nation's top oil executives were called before Congress again yesterday to defend their industry's recent mergers and record profits, in the face of public outrage over high oil and gasoline prices. 
 It was the second time in four months that the oil industry faced strong criticism from both Republican and Democratic senators. In November, the Senate held similar hearings, which produced a show of indignation but were followed by little legislation.
Most of the companies represented, including Exxon Mobil, Chevron and ConocoPhillips, participated in the wave of mega-mergers of the late 1990's and early 2000 that created today's behemoths. Given the sharp rise in oil prices, the top five of them reaped record earnings of well over $100 billion. 
 Senator Arlen Specter, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called the hearings to examine whether mergers in the oil and gas industry had resulted in higher gasoline prices at the pump.
 Gasoline prices jumped above $3 a gallon after Hurricane Katrina last summer and are now about $2.37 a gallon. They have risen by 60 percent in the last five years. 
 ''We do know that there have been mergers and that gasoline prices have risen,'' Senator Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said in his opening remarks. 
 He proposed to introduce a bill that would tighten scrutiny on mergers that might hurt competition and would reconsider some of the $14.5 billion tax incentives that were granted to energy companies in last year's energy law.
 Increasingly, rising energy and fuel costs are becoming potent issues in Washington. In his State of the Union message in January, President Bush said that he wanted to cut America's ''addiction'' to oil and develop alternative fuels.
 When five oil executives testified last November, they successfully lobbied for their top executives to be spared the fate of tobacco executives, who were made to testify under oath in 1994. After the hearings, some Democrats said that the executives had misled them with incomplete and inaccurate answers.
 Yesterday, the executives, six of them this time, were sworn in. This formality created the very kind of picture -- some of the most powerful American executives lined up with their right hands up in the air -- that oil executives had sought to avoid. 
 Otherwise, theatrics were largely absent although the arguments from the oil executives were the same.
 ''With respect to the committee's specific question -- whether mergers and acquisitions in our industry have contributed to higher prices at the pump -- my answer is no,'' Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon Mobil's chairman and chief executive since January, said in response to Senator Specter.
 ''We need U.S. energy companies that have the scale and financial strength to make the investments, undertake the risks and develop the new technologies necessary to provide Americans with greater energy access and greater energy security,'' he said.
 John Hofmeister, the president of Royal Dutch Shell's American unit, said that despite the immense size of the largest oil companies, ''this remains a highly competitive industry.''
 Also testifying were the top representatives of Chevron, ConocoPhillips, BP America, and Valero, the nation's largest independent refiner.
 While oil prices remain high, the American economy has so far absorbed the increased energy costs. Still, in an election year, politicians seemed eager to turn the heat on oil men.
 Exxon Mobil came under the most criticism. The company was formed in 1999 from the merger of Exxon, the top American oil company, with Mobil, the No. 2. Last year, it earned net income of $36.1 billion.
 There have been 2,600 mergers since 1991 in the oil and gas industry, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office.
 Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said that the degree of competition and the amount of market power held by oil companies following the mergers raised ''really serious questions.''
 ''Although each of these mergers reduced the companies' costs they were nevertheless followed by increases in the costs to consumers,'' she said. 
 Speaking during a witness panel before the industry executives, Severin Borenstein, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said oil companies were not solely responsible for high gasoline prices. ''It's a world market for oil and that's why we have high gasoline prices,'' Mr. Borenstein said.
 Senator Specter's proposed legislation would also permit the government to take legal action against the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries for fixing oil prices.
 ''One of the biggest causes of high crude oil prices is the illegal price-fixing of the OPEC cartel,'' said Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, a sponsor of the provision. 
 Still, there were some moments of levity, such as when Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, said: ''Our constituents, your consumers, aren't very happy with your explanations. If you'd be losing money, they wouldn't be so upset.''
 One senator -- John Cornyn, Republican of Texas -- defended the industry, providing the oil executives with an easy plank to make their case. 
 ''Since it isn't a crime to make a profit, what I would ask is, What can the government do that would be positive to bring down the price of oil and gas?'' the senator asked. 
 ''Would it be productive or destructive for us to pass a windfall profit tax?''
 The answer from the executives, of course, was ''not productive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Oil company executives were sworn in yesterday at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, the second Senate grilling of the industry in four months. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (52%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Antitrust Actions and Laws; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil; Chevron Corp; Conocophillips; Royal Dutch/shell Group

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (89%); REX W TILLERSON (55%) Jad Mouawad; Arlen (Sen) Specter; John Hofmeister; Dianne (Sen) Feinstein; John (Sen) Cornyn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



315 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Bronx: Ground Broken On Development Project 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., broke ground yesterday for a 170,000-square-foot, two-story retail and office center in Melrose. Scheduled for completion in 2008, the $56.7 million project is expected to create 225 permanent jobs, house a new Department of Finance office as well as Staples, Rite Aid and other stores, and include a renovated four-story parking garage that has been vacant for years. The city's Economic Development Corporation arranged the sale of the city-owned land for $1 million to the developer, the Related Companies, and provided a $4 million low-interest loan, while the city's Industrial Development Agency provided $1.8 million in real estate and tax benefits for the project, which is supposed to help revitalize the South Bronx. SEWELL CHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); RETAILERS (88%); JOB CREATION (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Retail Stores and Trade; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Related Companies

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (74%) Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006



316 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: In Korea, Bureaucrats Lead the Technology Charge 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
With Korea's aggressive electronics conglomerates leading the world's markets into the next frontiers of high technology, an unlikely commander is heading the charge: the government.
 South Korea is only as large as the state of Maine, but it makes more cellphones than any country except Finland. It has the world's highest rate of Internet penetration, and is already building futuristic wireless technologies that American consumers can still only dream of.
Sure, much of South Korea's success can be attributed to its highly educated work force, gadget-hungry consumers and globally competitive companies like Samsung Electronics. But nearly everyone here -- from economists to business leaders to engineers -- agrees that significant credit should also go to the guiding hand of government.
 The idea of public bureaucrats replacing the market in nurturing next-generation technologies is controversial, and history is full of examples of governments elsewhere that tried and failed. But like Japan in the early decades of its economic takeoff, South Korea's government has built a track record of focusing on strategic industries, even specific technologies, economists say. 
 The question now, they say, is how much longer this fast-rising economy will tolerate such paternalism. 
 ''The government has had real successes so far, but it will get increasingly difficult to keep doing this,'' said Terence M. Lim, head of research at the Seoul office of Goldman Sachs. ''Korea's economy is outgrowing this old mentality of government dictating to the market.''
 The government here has also had some spectacular failures -- most notably, a push into biotechnology that produced a national scandal over faked stem cell research -- and it has lost many of its powers as the economy has deregulated and matured. But economists say that companies continue to look to it for guidance, particularly as they push into risky and untested new technologies. 
 Seoul has scored its biggest successes with information technology. Here, the leading actor is the powerful Ministry of Information and Communication, with a budget of nearly $1 billion to promote new technologies and a staff of young engineers and policy experts from South Korea's most elite universities.
 Three years ago, the ministry introduced a sweeping plan with goals like putting a robot in every Korean household and getting the country ahead in next-generation technologies like cellphones and wireless broadband. The goal is to build on perhaps the nation's most successful project: installing high-speed Internet connections in almost every Korean home.
 Exports related to information technology totaled $78 billion in 2005, accounting for a third of South Korea's total exports, the information ministry said.
 While many South Koreans are justifiably proud of their country's accomplishments, government intervention in the economy can be a touchy subject here. The biggest reason is fear of angering the United States, which is South Korea's largest export market after China. 
 But that has not deterred Chin Dae Je, a former executive at Samsung who is the architect of the ''I.T. 839'' plan, which he unveiled after becoming information minister three years ago. Mr. Chin, who received a doctorate in electrical engineering from Stanford University, consulted with his former Samsung colleagues, along with other big Korean companies, to pick technologies that would help the nation ''leap into the leadership position in the I.T. field.'' 
 They focused on building one of the world's first nationwide networks offering wireless Internet access with the speed of broadband connections. In a race against other companies trying to commercialize similar systems, all based on the same Intel-developed technology called WiMax, the Koreans worked furiously, with the ministry and Samsung chipping in $15 million each to begin development. 
 In November, they unveiled their first demonstration in the southern city of Busan to visiting journalists and diplomats.
 Now, the new system, called WiBro, is to be introduced throughout South Korea in April, ahead of competitors in other countries.
 The government hopes such successes lead to continued growth in a nation of 48 million, where average family incomes have risen to about $36,000, still below the United States average of about $45,000.
 South Korean officials brush aside concerns about their policies being protectionist, saying that foreign companies are welcome to join in government-led projects. And while they admit there have been failures, officials say their overall track record is proof that they are doing something right.
 ''Economic theory isn't always right,'' Mr. Chin, the information minister, said in an interview. ''What works is what's right. And what works is government playing an important role as a facilitator for new technologies.''
 Ultimately, the government is hoping to repeat the success of its digital cellphone industry. Officials took a gamble in the late 1980's by leapfrogging into that untested new technology, developed by Qualcomm, which was then an obscure start-up company in San Diego. 
 In 1996, South Korea became the first country to commercialize the technology, while the dominant global cellphone players, Motorola and Nokia of Finland, moved later. South Korea's decision proved prescient, putting the two largest Korean cellphone makers, Samsung and LG Electronics, in a strong position when the United States and other major markets started switching to the technology a year later.
 But its success also depended on some other smart moves on the part of its companies. To ensure their phones won over Americans, the Korean companies worked hard to understand Western tastes.
 Samsung sent people to fashion and furniture shows in Milan to scrutinize the latest design trends. LG took an even bigger gamble, pouring 300 engineers and half of its cellphone development budget into two prototype handsets, called Alpha and Beta, for the American market.
 Juno Cho, now president of LG's cellphone operations in the United States, recalled that Beta in particular was risky because it was a clamshell phone, something untried at the time in America. Mr. Cho said LG persuaded Sprint to sell Beta, renamed TM510, in late 2000. It was a huge success, selling more than a million units, Mr. Cho said.
 It ''was a once-in-a-lifetime chance to break into a new market, the world's biggest,'' Mr. Cho said. 
 LG and Samsung are now the second-largest and fourth-largest sellers of cellphones in North America, with a combined share of about a third of the mobile phone market, according to Gartner, the market research company. 
 Motorola and Nokia are first and third in the North American market, Gartner reports. Worldwide, Korean companies hold about 19 percent of market share; No. 1 Nokia has about 33 percent, according to Gartner.
 The new I.T. 839 policy differs by putting emphasis on inventing and developing technologies, to set the standards and to control crucial patents. Analysts say that focus reflects a bitter lesson from the Qualcomm episode: To this day, Samsung and LG pay Qualcomm royalties of 5.25 percent for handsets they sell.
 ''Whoever captures the standard gets an economic windfall for years to come,'' said Max Hong, who leads the technology practice in the Seoul office of McKinsey & Company. ''Korea feels it can no longer just be a hardware manufacturer.''
 But the Korean strategy has big risks, as was evident after the government-financed push into biotechnology fell to pieces recently when a researcher, Dr. Hwang Woo Suk, admitted that he had fabricated evidence of stem cell cloning. In wireless technologies, one failure was a push in the late 1980's into the ''city phone,'' an early mobile device that could make calls like a cellphone, but could receive only small text messages as a beeper does. 
 Industrial policy ''works fine when government is right,'' said Lee Keun, a professor of economics at Seoul National University. ''But if the government chooses the wrong technology, and all companies follow it, this could be disastrous.''
 Economists say that government industrial leadership is common in developing countries, but has a mixed track record in more mature economies. But information ministry officials argue that even as it matures, South Korea, as a relatively small country, cannot afford to let market forces rule unchecked.
 ''In the United States, you have many competing and redundant cellphone networks, and none of them working perfectly,'' said Dr. Chin, the information minister. ''Korea doesn't have such a luxury.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Ministry of Information and Communication has a budget of nearly $1 billion to promote new technologies. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); BROADBAND (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); BIOETHICS (73%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); SCANDALS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%) Computers and the Internet; Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) MAINE, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



317 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPER TOLD TO BUILD 9/11 SITE OR STAND CLEAR 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
One day after critical talks on the rebuilding effort at ground zero collapsed, the Pataki administration said yesterday that it would not reopen negotiations with the developer Larry A. Silverstein. It challenged him to start building the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower next month or ''move out of the way.''
 The challenge came 12 hours after the abrupt breakdown of talks that had sought to resolve issues hindering the development of ground zero, where the sputtering efforts to develop the site of the Sept. 11 attack have become a glaring embarrassment for the city and state.
Facing a self-imposed midnight deadline, advisers to Gov. George E. Pataki negotiated for nearly 16 hours Tuesday trying to reach a deal in which Mr. Silverstein, who holds the lease for the site, would surrender control of the Freedom Tower and a second building to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the site's owner. That would have paved the way for an April groundbreaking for the Freedom Tower, the largest and most symbolic of five skyscrapers planned for the site. 
 The failure of the talks is just the latest problem to arise over plans to rebuild the World Trade Center site, from the fight over the original design to the dispute over a planned cultural center to fund-raising problems for a memorial, as well as continuing doubts of some critics as to whether the Freedom Tower is even a good idea.
 At the center of it all is Mr. Silverstein, who, despite responding yesterday that he would still begin building next month, has not convinced many of the key players that he has the wherewithal to get the Freedom Tower built.
 The talks were seen as a final effort to resolve lingering disputes about the site's fate. Governor Pataki wants work to begin soon at ground zero so his legacy is not clouded as he leaves office and considers a presidential run. The Port Authority believes Mr. Silverstein does not have the financial resources to complete work on all five towers. And Mr. Silverstein, as the site's leaseholder, holds many of the cards, and is seeking financial concessions in return for giving up control of the entire site. 
 But after a whirlwind day in which Mr. Silverstein assured Governor Pataki by telephone that ''we're going to get a deal done tonight,'' the developer just hours later offered what Mr. Pataki's advisers described as a ''bad faith'' counteroffer at 11:35 p.m., demanding even more concessions from the Port Authority.
 ''We have decided that there will be no continuing of negotiations with Larry Silverstein and his group until they put something on the table that is in the public interest,'' Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official and the vice chairman of the Port Authority, said at a news conference yesterday.
 ''We fully expect Larry to begin construction on the Freedom Tower in April. This is a commitment he made to the public and to the Port Authority and we expect him to fulfill that commitment. And if he does not, then we want him to move out of the way.''
 If Mr. Silverstein fails to begin construction of the Freedom Tower, Mr. Gargano said, the state and the Port Authority will look at their ''legal options,'' including whether to declare the developer in default on his lease for the site.
 At a news conference yesterday afternoon, Mr. Silverstein presented a sharply different view of what happened late Tuesday night, saying that he was shocked and saddened that the negotiations had been terminated just when it appeared they were so close to a deal. He said he had made ''enormous concessions.''
 ''We were prepared to do what the governor had asked of us -- to stay as long as it takes to reach an agreement that would allow us to do what all New Yorkers want: rebuild the World Trade Center,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, it appears that we were the only ones at the table with that commitment.''
 Mr. Silverstein leased the World Trade Center from the Port Authority in July 2001, only weeks before it was destroyed by terrorists. He has long insisted that he has both the will and the means to rebuild the entire $7 billion project, although city, state and Port Authority executives have been skeptical given that there is only $2.9 billion in insurance proceeds available.
 Asked whether he would build the tower, Mr. Silverstein said yesterday, ''We have indicated to the governor that we're prepared to go forward next month to build the Freedom Tower.'' Mr. Silverstein pointedly held the press conference not in his Midtown office but at 7 World Trade Center, the 52-story tower he recently completed at Vesey and Greenwich Streets, across from the World Trade Center site.
 It was unclear yesterday whether the sudden breach between the governor and the developer was irreparable, or whether the two-fisted posturing on both sides was only a prelude to a resolution of the increasingly pitched battle over the fate of ground zero. 
 Intent on proving they were seeking a resolution to the dispute, Janno N. Lieber, senior vice president for Silverstein Properties, said Mr. Silverstein had assembled his partners and his negotiating team at 11:30 p.m. Tuesday to work out the final details of a deal that would lead to a major realignment at ground zero.
 ''I have never seen Larry more optimistic about getting a deal done,'' said Mr. Lieber, who was in the room at the time. ''He drank two cups of coffee because he was going to sit there until it was done. The idea that we blew this up is crazy.''
 Members of the Silverstein camp, who discussed details of the talks after being granted anonymity, said the impasse was caused by the bureaucratic sluggishness of the Port Authority and the complicated internal politics of an authority controlled by the governors of New York and New Jersey.
 But Kenneth J. Ringler Jr., the Port Authority's executive director, dismissed Mr. Silverstein's account, saying that the developer wanted the Port Authority to take on much of the financial risk at the site, while he got most of the money for rebuilding. He said that Mr. Silverstein may have suspected that the Port Authority would back down because it was so intent on moving forward with the Freedom Tower.
 ''It seemed the more we put on the table, the more they wanted,'' Mr. Ringler said.
 Mr. Gargano went a step further, saying the late-night counterproposal was an illustration of Mr. Silverstein's greed.
 The framework of the deal that both sides say was within their grasp had the Port Authority taking control of building the Freedom Tower and a second building site at Greenwich and Cedar Streets, where the heavily damaged Deutsche Bank now stands. Mr. Silverstein would have retained what everyone regarded as the most lucrative sites for three towers on Church Street, next to the $2 billion PATH terminal now under construction.
 But the two sides remained at odds over financial issues relating to the allocation of $2.9 billion in insurance money; Mr. Silverstein's rent, which rises to $125.25 million in July; and his share of the infrastructure costs on the 16-acre property.
 Mr. Ringler said the Port Authority, which did not want to take on the Freedom Tower unless the deal included a major portion of the insurance money, had made a number of concessions Tuesday night, including reducing Mr. Silverstein's rent and limiting the size of his rent increases over time.
 In recent weeks, there has been increasing concern among Port Authority executives, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and state officials that Mr. Silverstein did not have the ability to complete all the buildings at the site at an estimated cost of over $7 billion. They sought a new arrangement at ground zero that they said would allow rebuilding to proceed more quickly, while providing Mr. Silverstein with development opportunities and ensuring that the Freedom Tower is built.
 ''In order for Lower Manhattan to continue to grow as one of the world's pre-eminent business centers, it is essential that the World Trade Center site be built out correctly, completely and as quickly as possible,'' Mayor Bloomberg said yesterday. ''It is time for Silverstein Properties to temper its individual interests and focus on what's best for New York City.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry A. Silverstein, center, during a news conference yesterday at 7 World Trade Center, a 52-story tower he recently completed across from the World Trade Center site. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; David W Dunlap; George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



318 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: With Energy-Tax Bonanza, Wyoming Schools Enjoy Windfall 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
Forget the bucking bronco. A clattering cash register has become the more apt symbol of Wyoming in the energy rush.
 Over the past four years, as natural gas prices have spiked and drillers have descended here on the nation's least-populous state, Wyoming has collected about $65 million a month more in energy taxes than the government can spend. The numbers, in their cumulative power and duration, are starting to change the state's vision of what it could be and how to get there.
Money has been poured into wildlife protection, historical preservation and the support of families of National Guard troops in Iraq. A $100 million tax cut this year eliminated the sales tax on groceries. (There is no personal or corporate income tax to cut.) But that still left hundreds of millions to be set aside in an all-purpose savings account that some state officials fantasize could one day grow large enough to subsidize the state budget itself -- Wyoming as trust-fund kid, or cowboy emirate.
 Gov. Dave Freudenthal, a Democrat elected in 2002 in a mostly Republican state, has staked much of his administration -- and his re-election hopes this year -- on the argument that Wyoming has been given a rare power and responsibility which must not be squandered. 
 ''You don't drill 30,000 wells without changing the state,'' Mr. Freudenthal said in an interview in his office here at the Capitol. ''It's in our hands whether that change is for the better or the worse.''
 Education is the first step in the journey. 
 A recently approved $2.1 billion cash infusion to its public elementary and secondary schools over the next two years -- a 24 percent increase in spending, all from energy taxes -- could vault the state to first or second in the nation in per-pupil spending, from seventh.
 And its only four-year college -- the University of Wyoming, west of here in Laramie -- is racing ahead even faster. A $505 million endowment set aside by the Legislature in March will allow the university and the two-year community colleges to go on a hiring spree. The goal is to create perhaps a dozen permanently endowed chairs in an effort to lure high-profile professors -- and their graduate students in tow -- to the high plains. 
 Interest from the fund will also provide scholarship money for most of the state's graduating high school seniors starting this fall, with a nearly free education for top students who have taken the toughest courses. Some of the plan's supporters hope that enough money can be added to the fund to provide free education for every resident in perpetuity. 
 And people like Justin Floyd are the target of it all. 
 Mr. Floyd, a 27-year-old father of three, moved to Wyoming from Utah a year ago to work for Halliburton servicing natural gas wells. But he and his wife, Kathryn, decided to put down roots after looking into the schools. 
 ''Education in Wyoming is so much better than in Utah,'' he said in an interview at a mud-spattered drilling rig near Boulder, a few hundred miles northwest of here. ''They spend more per child than a lot of the neighboring states.''
 National education experts say the state's sparse population -- about 500,000 people and fewer than 6,000 graduating seniors in all of its high schools -- magnify the power and potential of the new education dollars.
 ''Lots of places say they want to create the best possible labor force in the country,'' said Martin Carnoy, a professor of education and economics at Stanford University, ''but with small numbers and big money, it can be done.''
 Dr. Carnoy and other scholars said that creating a regional powerhouse college could be done; the University of Texas pulled it off when a big investment in oil money in the 1980's positioned the university for the dot-com boom of the 90's. Places like Austin caught the economic wave, and the university was ready to supply the talent. 
 Wyoming's hopes will similarly depend, the experts say, on what kinds of jobs the state can create. Energy jobs are mostly blue-collar; the future will have to expand that base or graduates will continue to do what they mostly do now: leave.
 A central premise of the state's strategy is that the flow of energy cash, though perhaps not at current levels, will be sustained because, unlike in past booms, it is driven not by politics but by changes in the global economy. China's appetite for oil has driven up the price of natural gas, which Wyoming has in abundance. Improved pipelines make it more affordable to get the gas out. Air pollution rules push electricity companies to burn more gas. 
 But the environmental and social impacts of the drilling wave are also different. Since the last energy spike in the mid-1970's, Wyoming's tourism and recreation economy has become a major force, and that has changed public perception about open space and preservation. 
 Wyoming geology contributes to the shifting environmental impact. In the traditional gas drilling fields of Texas a single well can produce a bounty. Here, energy companies say that many more wells per acre are needed because of the fractured, piecemeal nature of the gas deposits. That means more land torn up, more wildlife corridors intersected, more views crowded by tanks and rigs. But Wyoming's wells also yield gas for a longer period.
 The immense power of the energy companies that are investing billions in the gas fields -- Wyoming is the nation's biggest coal producer, but coal's economic contributions are dwarfed by gas -- has also raised questions about who is really remaking the state. While few economists or environmentalists cite a direct link between the nation's most powerful Wyoming native, Vice President Dick Cheney, and the state's boom, neither do they overlook the reality that the company Mr. Cheney once headed, Halliburton, is making a fortune providing field services that allow the gas to flow. The Rock Springs District in the state's southwest corner is Halliburton's biggest revenue producer in the nation, company officials said.
 Halliburton has recruited workers across the West, and from as far afield as Oklahoma. About 120 workers commute to the gas field jobs: 20 days in Wyoming, 10 off with pay back in Oklahoma, with a company chartered flight bridging the gap and $50,000 a year in pay, or more with overtime.
 The personal price can be high and is visible in Doug Gunter's face when he talks about family. At 4:45 a.m. on a recent day in a workers' camp miles from the nearest town, Mr. Gunter was about midway through his 20-day Wyoming tour, facing another 12-hour day and longing for home. 
 ''It gets harder every time,'' he said of his trips.
 Thousands of people like Mr. Gunter are producing what the House speaker, Randall B. Luthi, a Republican rancher and lawyer, called ''a childless boom'' in Wyoming. That is one reason, Mr. Luthi said, the Legislature is so intent on improving education: to increase the attractiveness of the state so families will come and stay.
 ''Either the workers don't have children, or they're leaving their families at home,'' he said. ''It's one of the things we want to change.''
 The state superintendent of public education, James McBride, has no doubt the effort will succeed.
 ''It's a great time to be in education in Wyoming,'' Mr. McBride said. ''In five years, we'll be the best, and first, in everything in the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A $505 million endowment set aside by the State Legislature will allow the University of Wyoming to go on a hiring binge. A goal is to create perhaps a dozen permanently endowed chairs to lure high-profile professors. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 Justin Floyd moved to Wyoming a year ago to service natural gas wells. He and his family decided to stay for the well-financed schools. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (87%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); WILDLIFE (55%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Hiring and Promotion; Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Education and Schools; Taxation; Scholarships and Fellowships; Community Colleges; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (84%) University of Wyoming

PERSON: DAVE FREUDENTHAL (58%) Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: LARAMIE, WY, USA (79%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (76%) Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



319 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Americas: Ecuador: Indians Protest Free-Trade Talk With U.S. 

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO (NYT)

 BODY:
Interior Minister Alfredo Castillo resigned as thousands of Indians blocked highways to protest President Alfredo Palacio's efforts to negotiate a free trade agreement with the United States. The Indians, who say an agreement would batter their way of life, have burned tires and tussled with police officers trying for two days to control the demonstrations, which have buffeted Ecuador's tiny economy. Mr. Palacio, who has been hit by one protest after another since taking office last year, has said he would seek to sign a deal that would be equitable to all Ecuadoreans. JUAN FORERO (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); RIOTS (84%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots; Indians, American

PERSON: Juan Forero; Alfredo Castillo; Alfredo (Pres) Palacio

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



320 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Bank Warns Palestinians Of Bleak Year For Economy 

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Joel Brinkley contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 15 

 BODY:
If Israel withholds revenues from a Hamas-led Palestinian Authority and donor countries reduce aid, the Palestinian areas will be thrown into a deep depression, with personal incomes dropping 30 percent this year alone, according to a new World Bank study.
 The study says the Palestinian economy would shrink by 27 percent in 2006 -- a one-year contraction that compares to the Depression in the United States. Unemployment would nearly double, to 39.6 percent, and two-thirds of the population would be living below the poverty level. 
 The study, sent to donors on Wednesday, was provided to The New York Times by an official who wanted it to have greater distribution. The estimates were sought by donor countries to help guide their policies after the victory of the radical Islamic group Hamas in the legislative elections on Jan. 25. 
 The figures illustrate the policy dilemma of the United States and the European Union, which do not want to provide money to Hamas but also do not want to punish ordinary Palestinians for a democratic vote. Nor are they eager to see Iran or other Muslim countries step in.
 Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the United States, the European Union and Israel, meaning there are likely to be significant cuts in budget support and development aid, even if relief aid continues or increases.
 The United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations, known as the Quartet, have demanded that any new government recognize Israel, forswear violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, or face cuts in financing. So far, Hamas has refused.
 In Washington on Wednesday, James D. Wolfensohn, the Quartet's special Middle East envoy, warned that cutting off aid would lead to chaos and ''increased radicalization of Palestinian society.''
 Mr. Wolfensohn, who indicated that he was likely to step down shortly, was testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
 He cited concern over meeting the Palestinian government payroll, which exceeds $100 million a month to pay 140,000 people. No one in the United States or Europe is talking about making those payments once Hamas takes office.
 ''If you don't pay the civil servants, who themselves support 900,000 people,'' he said, ''I'm afraid the frustration would reach a level where you couldn't contain it.''
 The World Bank study looked at four hypotheses. 
 Israel's policy -- withholding $55 million a month in taxes that it collects for the Palestinian Authority and restricting trade and access to Israel by Palestinian workers -- is the largest factor. 
 The next largest is the expected cut in budget support to a Hamas-run Palestinian Authority. The main cash donors are Saudi Arabia and the European Union, and while the bank assumes that Muslim donations will continue unchanged, Western support is expected to drop at least $50 million this year.
 The first hypothesis assumes that nothing much will change; the second that Israel alone holds back revenues and further reduces border trade and access; the third that only foreign aid is reduced; and the fourth, which the report considers most realistic, that Israel continues its restrictions and that foreign aid is also reduced.
 The consequences of this last assumption are dire even this year. Real gross domestic product per capita would fall 49.4 percent from 1999, before the second intifada began, when the Palestinian Authority ran a small budget surplus.
 In 2007 unemployment would rise to 44.3 percent and the poverty level to 72 percent, the bank estimates, with another 4-point drop in the size of the economy, compared with 1999.
 The bank says that in 2005, donors contributed about $1.3 billion, which provided some 22 percent of gross disposable income for the population. About $350 million (27 percent) was budget support, or cash; about $500 million (38 percent) was relief or emergency aid; about $450 million (35 percent) was development aid.
 The bank assumes that cash support will drop this year to $300 million, with Arab countries continuing aid at current levels, but drop to $200 million in 2007. The study assumes that Western cash will be diverted to emergency and relief aid, increasing totals by some 20 percent this year, to $600 million, and to $650 million in 2007. It assumes that developmental aid will decline by more than half, to $200 million this year, and taper off to $100 million by 2008.
 Hamas leaders like Khaled Meshal and Ismail Haniya have said that Western aid is unnecessary, and that Hamas will replace it with support from the Muslim world, especially Iran. But there is considerable skepticism that new funds in the amounts needed will be available. 
 The intifada, which began in 2000, has already had a severe impact on the Palestinian economy because of Israeli security measures, closings and restrictions on movement. 
 Between the third quarter of 2000 and the third quarter of 2002, real personal income dropped almost 40 percent, despite a doubling of annual donor disbursements. 
 Israeli restrictions on trade and movement, including the construction of part of the separation barrier, have already cost the Palestinian economy an estimated 5 percent a year in real economic growth.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gazans unloading wheat from the World Food Program. Hamas's political isolation could reduce cash aid. (Photo by Abid Katib/Getty Images)Chart: ''Economy in Turmoil''If Israel and major donor countries sharply restrict aid and budget support, the Palestinian economy will face a deep crisis. These 2006 projected figures estimate the impact.UNEMPLOYMENT'05 -- 23.4%'06 -- 39.6BELOW POVERTY LEVEL'05 -- 44.0%'06 -- 67.0GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT PER CAPITA'05 -- $1,152'06 -- $802PALESTINIAN WORKERS IN ISRAELI TERRITORIES'05 -- 44,800'06 -- 22,700(Source by World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); HAMAS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); TRENDS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POLITICS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RELIGION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) Palestinians; Elections; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Politics and Government

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Hamas; European Union

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Steven Erlanger

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel; Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



321 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

H&R Block Sued by New York Attorney General Over High-Cost Individual Retirement Accounts
The New York attorney general has accused H&R Block, the tax-preparation service, of steering hundreds of thousands of its clients into individual retirement accounts that were ''virtually guaranteed to lose money'' because of low interest rates and high fees. [Page C1.] 


Warning Met Deaf Ears, Enron Executive Testifies
Sherron S. Watkins, the Enron vice president celebrated for trying to warn the company's founder, Kenneth L. Lay, that the company could ''implode in a wave of accounting scandals,'' recounted to jurors how her efforts fell on deaf ears just five months before Enron collapsed into bankruptcy. [C1.]

Reading the Spin on Sony's PlayStation Delay
After postponing the release of its next-generation PlayStation game console until November, Sony tried to put a good face on the move by portraying it as a marketing decision. But analysts called it a potentially costly step. [C1.]

Those who invest or work in the video game industry expressed little surprise yesterday at Sony's announcement that it would delay its next PlayStation console until November. [C17.]

Bird Flu Planning Overlooks Corporate Services
Governments worldwide have spent billions planning for a potential influenza pandemic: buying medicines, running disaster drills, developing strategies for border controls. But one piece of the plan may be missing: the ability of big corporations to continue to provide vital services. [C1.]

Sears More Than Doubles Its Fourth-Quarter Profit
The Sears Holdings Corporation more than doubled its fourth-quarter profit to $648 million, benefiting from continued cost-cutting and the addition of Sears's results to Kmart's. The better-than-expected results propelled the shares to their biggest single-day gain since the company was formed a year ago when Kmart bought Sears, Roebuck. [C5.]

Chrysler's Salaried Employees to Pay More for Insurance
Chrysler, which is trying to persuade union members to accept less-generous health care benefits, said most of its salaried employees would pay more for their health coverage beginning next year. [C3.]

Leaders of the United Automobile Workers union, who met in Detroit, said they doubted that a deal could be reached on an assistance plan for Delphi before a March 31 deadline. [C3.]

Central Bank Survey Finds Moderate Expansion
The economy expanded at a moderate pace across most parts of the country in January and February, while higher energy and materials costs persisted, the Federal Reserve said. [C3.]

Dubai Company Agrees to Give Up American Port Deal
The Dubai-owned company that had sought to buy several port terminals in major East Coast cities confirmed Wednesday that it would sell those operations to an unrelated American buyer. [A22.]

Deutsche Borse and Euronext in Serious Merger Talks
Serious merger talks are under way between Deutsche Borse, which operates the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, and Euronext, which operates exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon, to create a pan-European company with a strong operation in derivatives. Market Place. [C4.]

NCAA's March Madness Infects Madison Avenue
The NCAA basketball tournament is a big sell for Madison Avenue this year, with advertising spending at about $500 million. Advertising. [C3.]

The Federal Communications Commission leveled a record $3.6 million fine against CBS stations and affiliates yesterday, saying that an episode of ''Without a Trace'' in December 2004 inappropriately suggested a teenage sexual orgy. [C2.]

Stocks Rise on Federal Reserve Data and Sears Profit
Stocks rose after earnings from Sears exceeded estimates and a Federal Reserve survey showed steady growth. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.54 points, to 1,303.02; the Dow Jones industrial average rose 58.43, to 11,209.77; and the Nasdaq composite index increased 15.94, to 2,311.84. [C17.]

Equity Investors Plan Bid for Vodafone Unit in Japan
A group of private equity firms plans to make an unsolicited $15 billion cash bid for Vodafone's Japanese unit, people involved with the offer said. [C4.]

Costco's Venture in Fine Arts Causes Some Ripples
Costco is known as an astute marketer of items ranging from diamonds to dog food to Dom Perignon Champagne, but its recent venture into fine art is creating some ripples in the fine art industry. [E1.]

Russian State Oil Concern Buys Debt of Yukos
The Russian oil company Rosneft has acquired $482 million in debt that Yukos owed to Western banks, Yukos said. The step raised the possibility that Rosneft might acquire Yukos's remaining assets. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Sears shares since February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); MERGERS (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (71%); INFLUENZA (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (66%); EPIDEMICS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ACCOUNTING (55%); SCANDALS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); H & R BLOCK INC (90%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (82%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); HRB (NYSE) (90%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



322 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Nijmegen Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: A Candid Dutch Film May Be Too Scary for Immigrants 

BYLINE: By GREGORY CROUCH

DATELINE: NIJMEGEN, the Netherlands, March 15 

 BODY:
This is not exactly a run-of-the-mill homework assignment: watch a film clip of an attractive woman sunbathing topless, and try not to be shocked. 
 ''People do not make a fuss about nudity,'' the narrator explains.
That lesson, about the Netherlands' nude beaches, is followed by another: homosexuals have the same rights here as heterosexuals do, including the chance to marry. 
 Just to make sure everyone gets the message, two men are shown kissing in a meadow.
 The scenes are brief parts of a two-hour-long film that the Dutch government has compiled to help potential immigrants, many of them from Islamic countries, meet the demands of a new entrance examination that went into effect on Wednesday. In the exam, candidates must prove they can speak some Dutch and are at least aware of the Netherlands' liberal values, even if they do not agree with all of them.
 Opponents of the tightening immigration policies have pointed to the film -- a DVD contained in a package of study materials for the new exam -- as an attempt by the government to discourage applicants from Islamic countries who may be offended by its content. 
 Dutch politicians and immigration officials have dismissed those accusations, saying the film, blandly titled ''To the Netherlands,'' is a study aid that will give potential immigrants an honest look at the way life is lived here. 
 ''The film is meant for people not yet in Holland to take note that this is normal here and not be shocked and awed by it once they arrive,'' said Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali-born member of the Dutch Parliament.
 But Abdou Menebhi, chairman of Emcemo, a Moroccan interest group in Amsterdam, said the film was just another example of how the Netherlands was trying to limit immigration from Muslim countries.
 ''This isn't education, it's provocation,'' Mr. Menebhi said. ''The new law has one goal: to stop the flow of immigrants, especially by Muslims from countries like Morocco and Turkey.''
 Citizens of some countries, in fact, are exempt from the examination, including those from the United States and European Union nations. 
 The Netherlands now has some of the strictest immigration policies in Europe, drafted in part during a period of rising societal tension after the killings of the anti-immigrant politician Pim Fortuyn and the filmmaker Theo van Gogh, who with Ms. Hirsi Ali made a movie critical of Islam.
 In recent years, the government has increased age and income requirements for certain groups of immigrants, specifically as an effort to cut down on an influx of young Muslim women bound for arranged marriages here. Policy makers say they are concerned about an estimated 600,000 immigrants already here who do not speak proper Dutch. Poor housing and high unemployment among minority groups is contributing to ethnic tensions in some of the largest cities, where incidents of violence against Jews and homosexuals have raised new concerns.
 Dutch officials deny that the film ''To the Netherlands'' -- or the new law for that matter -- is intended to discourage further Muslim immigration. But they insist that they want all applicants to consider whether or not they would fit into one of the world's most permissive societies.
 ''This notion that we want to shock Muslims, that is complete nonsense,'' said Maud Bredero, a spokeswoman for Minister of Immigration Rita Verdonk. ''They don't need to agree in their hearts with homosexuality, but we ask them to respect other people's rights. This is a free country.''
 The film indulges in a dose of Dutch frankness. Besides the snippets on homosexuality and nudity, it features a run-down neighborhood largely populated by foreigners plus interviews with immigrants who do not always describe the Dutch in flattering terms, calling them at one point ''cold'' and ''distant.''
 The film warns of traffic jams, integration problems, unemployment and even possible flooding in a country largely below sea level. Some immigrant success stories are showcased, but one newspaper joked that the tourist board would give the whole production a thumbs down.
 ''This is not meant to make fun of ourselves or the people who want to come here,'' Ms. Bredero said. ''But people do need to know what kind of country they are coming to. You have to know a little about the values here, like the fact that men and women have the same rights.''
 Well aware that simply watching a naked woman on film, for example, is prohibited by law in some countries, the Dutch authorities have created a second version of the film, minus bare breasts and gay kisses.
 ''Someone from Iran doesn't need to order the tape with the gays and the topless woman,'' Ms. Bredero explained. ''They'll get an edited version.''
 But even in that version, nudity and homosexuality are discussed and portrayed because the applicant could be asked a question about them on the exam, Ms. Bredero added.
 For her part, Ms. Hirsi Ali says she cannot understand why the film has become controversial, comparing it to all of the consumer warning signs one finds in the United States.
 ''When I was at Barney's in New York recently, there was a little board in front of the escalator, 'Watch out, you might fall.' This film has that kind of message,'' she said, explaining that some viewers have probably never met a homosexual or seen a nude beach. ''It's for those who don't know.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Conservative Muslims thinking about living in the Netherlands must be prepared for a permissive society with liberal values, the Dutch say. (Photo by Evert Elizinga/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); RELIGION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); HOMEWORK (78%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); REFUGEES (75%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); POLITICS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MARRIAGE (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); BEACHES (57%) Immigration and Refugees; Islam; Homosexuality; Nudism and Nudity

PERSON: AYAAN HIRSI ALI (54%) Gregory Crouch

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); EUROPE (92%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Netherlands; Netherlands

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



323 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Hussein's First Testimony Encourages Insurgency
Saddam Hussein gave his first formal testimony in his trial and delivered a diatribe that urged Iraqis to cease sectarian bloodshed and to continue to fight against the United States. The presiding judge halted the session after Mr. Hussein lambasted the court. A1

American soldiers killed a number of Iraqi civilians in a battle with insurgents at a farmhouse near the Sunni Arab town of Balad. 
American officials put the civilian death toll at 3, while Iraqi officials said it was 11. A8

Palestinians Face Aid Crisis
If Israel withholds revenues from a Hamas-led Palestinian Authority and donor countries reduce aid, the Palestinian areas will be thrown into a deep depression, according to a new World Bank study. A16

Israel and the Palestinians traded recriminations in the aftermath of an Israeli raid on a prison on in the West Bank on Tuesday. Israel said it would try six of the prisoners taken in the raid. A16

U.S. Loses on U.N. Rights Panel
With the United States in virtually lone opposition, the United Nations overwhelmingly approved a new Human Rights Council to replace the widely discredited Human Rights Commission. A3

Fault Cited in Milosevic's Care
Days after Slobodan Milosevic died, doctors who examined him recently said that the tribunal at The Hague, frustrated with his litany of medical complaints, failed at times to investigate them adequately. A12

NATIONAL A18-24

G.O.P. Finds Rallying Cry In Calls For Impeachment
Republicans, worried that their conservative base lacks motivation to turn out for the fall elections, have found a new rallying cry in the dreams of liberals about impeaching or censuring President Bush. A1

FEMA Trailers May Be Hazards
In its rush to provide shelter for Hurricane Katrina victims, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has created a pressing new Gulf Coast hazard: nearly 90,000 lightweight trailers in an area prone to flooding, tornadoes and, of course, hurricanes. A1

Child Pornography Arrests
Federal and international authorities have charged 27 people in nine states and three other countries in connection with an Internet child pornography ring. A18

Senate Campaign Continues
Representative Katherine Harris of Florida said she would not end her campaign for the Senate, but would instead invest her $10 million fortune in the race. A18

Use of Dogs at Abu Ghraib
The Army lacked clear rules for using dogs in interrogations at Iraq's Abu Ghraib prison, its former military intelligence chief acknowledged during a court-martial of a dog handler. A22

Wyoming Awash in Energy Cash
As natural gas prices have spiked and drillers have descended on Wyoming, the state has collected about $65 million a month more in energy taxes than the government can spend. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Build or Step Aside, Pataki Tells Developer
The Pataki administration said it would not reopen negotiations with the developer Larry A. Silverstein over the rebuilding efforts at ground zero, and challenged him to start building the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower next month. A1

Inmate Sues Prosecutor
An inmate who built a reputation as a jailhouse lawyer while serving his murder sentence in an upstate New York prison has filed a lawsuit against the prosecutor who played a role in his conviction, charging him with misconduct and withholding evidence. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-10

OBITUARIES A25

ARTS E1-1 2

Costco's Picasso Questioned
Costco is known as an astute marketer of high and low. It even ventured into the rarefied world of Picasso, selling a drawing on its Web site for a bargain $39,999.99. But, the drawing may not be a Picasso, an assertion that has Costco scrambling to live up to its consumer-friendly image. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-24

Suit Against H&R Block
H&R Block, the nation's largest tax-preparation service, was accused of selling inappropriate savings plans to hundreds of thousands of income tax filers. A1

Enron Warning Recounted
Sherron Watkins, left, a former Enron vice president, testified that her efforts to warn Kenneth L. Lay, a company founder and chief executive, that the company could ''implode in a wave of accounting scandals,'' were ignored just months before Enron descended into bankruptcy. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: As if that fire needed fuel; all about Andy; what every Iraqi should see; sleeping your way to a fuller you.
Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DOGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); HURRICANES (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TORNADOES (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HAMAS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (75%); WEATHER (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); JUDGES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%); INTERNET CRIME (62%); FLOOD ZONES (62%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



324 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Report Backs Iraq Strike and Cites Iran Peril 

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
An updated version of the Bush administration's national security strategy, the first in more than three years, gives no ground on the decision to order a pre-emptive attack on Iraq in 2003, and identifies Iran as the country likely to present the single greatest future challenge to the United States.
 The strategy document declares that American-led diplomacy to halt Iran's program to enrich nuclear fuel ''must succeed if confrontation is to be avoided,'' a near final draft of the document says. But it carefully avoids spelling out what steps the United States might take if diplomacy fails, and it makes no such direct threat of confrontation with North Korea, which boasts that it has already developed nuclear weapons. 
When asked about the omission in an interview today, Stephen J. Hadley, President Bush's national security adviser and the principal author of the new report, said ''the sentence applies to both Iran and North Korea.''
 The 48-page draft of the new ''National Security Strategy of the United States,'' which was released by the White House before a formal presentation by Mr. Hadley on Thursday, is an effort to both expand on and assess the security strategy published by the administration in September 2002, a year after the terrorist attacks against New York and the Pentagon upended American foreign policy. 
 But in a reflection of new challenges, the document also covers territory that the first strategy sidestepped, warning China, for example, against ''old ways of thinking and acting'' in its competition for energy resources.
 China's leaders, it says, are ''expanding trade, but acting as if they can somehow 'lock up' energy supplies around the world or seek to direct markets rather than opening them up -- as if they can follow a mercantilism borrowed from a discredited era.'' 
 No such discussion appears in the earlier version of the strategy, and Mr. Hadley said the warning was an effort to get China's leaders to think about ''the broader constellation'' of their interests.
 In a reflection of growing tensions between Washington and Moscow, the administration also expresses deep worry that Russia is falling off the path to democracy that Mr. Bush spent much of his first term celebrating. 
 ''Recent trends regrettably point toward a diminishing commitment to democratic freedoms and institutions,'' the document reads. In a much tougher tone than the 2002 document, it emphasizes that the future of the relationship with Russia ''will depend on the policies, foreign and domestic, that Russia adopts.''
 Mr. Hadley, who was the deputy to Condoleezza Rice, who was the national security adviser when the 2002 document was produced, said the effort was not intended to formulate new strategy, but to ''take stock of what has been accomplished and describe the new challenges we face.'' 
 He noted, for example, that dealing with economic globalization -- a subject the administration rarely talked about directly until recently -- constituted a new chapter, and that in other areas ''we've learned something over the past four years.''
 But chief among the sections that remain unchanged is the most controversial section of the 2002 strategy: the elevation of pre-emptive strikes to a central part of United States strategy. 
 ''The world is better off if tyrants know that they pursue W.M.D. at their own peril,'' the strategy says. It acknowledges misjudgments about Iraq's weapons program that preceded the invasion three years ago, but it is clearly unwilling to give ground on that decision. The report notes that ''there will always be some uncertainty about the status of hidden programs since proliferators are often brutal regimes that go to great lengths to conceal their activities.'' 
 While the new document hews to many of the administration's familiar themes, it contains changes that seem born of bitter experience. Throughout the document there is talk of the need for ''effective democracies,'' a code phrase, some of its drafters said, for countries that do not just hold free elections but also build democratic institutions and spread their benefits to their populations. ''I don't think there was as much of an appreciation of the need for that in 2002,'' one senior official said.
 The new document is also less ideological in tone, and far more country-specific. Syria, for example, received no mention in the older document, but it is cited as a sponsor of terrorism in this one. 
 Mr. Hadley and other officials said that in using the word ''confrontation'' the administration did not intend to signal a greater willingness to use military force against Iran's nuclear production sites. But it did indicate a willingness to step up pressure against Iranian leaders, including the threat of penalties that the United States is pressing in the United Nations Security Council. 
 Even as the White House edited the final drafts of the strategy, the House International Relations Committee voted 37 to 3 for legislation to end American economic aid to any country that invests in Iran's energy sector. The administration has opposed the bill out of concern that it would interfere with efforts to form a common front against Iran in the Security Council. 
 Still, the wording of the warning about confrontation with Iran comes just two pages after the strategy reiterates the 2002 warning that the United States reserves the right to take ''anticipatory action to defend ourselves, even if uncertainty remains as to the time and place of the enemy's attack.'' The juxtaposition is unlikely to be lost on Iran's leaders.
 Sections of the new document discuss at greater length the need to strengthen alliances, with specific references to supporting NATO and reforming the United Nations. 
 Following Mr. Bush's new push to ward off what he has called a dangerous shift toward isolationism, there is a section that refers to the need to ''engage the opportunities and confront the challenges of globalization,'' a word that did not appear in the 2002 document.
 The passage hails the ''new flows of trade, investment, information and technology,'' which it says are transforming national security in every area from the spread of H.I.V./AIDS to avian flu to ''environmental destruction, whether caused by human behavior or cataclysmic megadisasters such as flood, hurricanes, earthquakes or tsunamis.'' It stays away from the subject of global warming. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); TRENDS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); WRITERS (68%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) Iraq; Iran; Syria

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



325 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Sues H&R Block On I.R.A.'s 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELLand ERIC DASH

 BODY:
H&R Block, the nation's largest tax-preparation service, was accused yesterday of selling inappropriate savings plans to hundreds of thousands of income tax filers, in the latest attack on the company's push to offer other financial services. 
 The New York attorney general said in a lawsuit filed yesterday that the company steered clients, many of them low income, into individual retirement accounts that were ''virtually guaranteed to lose money'' because of low interest rates and high fees. The suit also contended that H&R Block did not fully disclose its fees.
 ''The conduct described in today's complaint is particularly appalling because many of those hardest hit were working families who struggle to save,'' Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, said in a statement. 
 The company said it would defend itself against the allegations. 
 The lawsuit is among a series of blows that have recently buffeted H&R Block. This year, technology flaws at some storefronts caused a number of early tax filers to go elsewhere. Last month, the company said it understated its 2004 state taxes by $10 million, while its tax liability for another quarter rose by $17.5 million. The company has said it will need to restate profits for two years because of its tax accounting errors. 
 ''If you're a tax-preparation company, it's very important you maintain the perception that you are competent in all things tax-related,'' said Scott A. Schneeberger, an analyst with Lehman Brothers.
 And last month, the company was accused by the California attorney general of illegally marketing and selling high-cost loans as ''instant'' tax refunds. The company agreed late last year to pay $62.5 million to settle four class-action lawsuits related to refund-anticipation loans.
 Additionally, the law firm of Lerach Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman & Robbins filed a class-action lawsuit in Kansas City, Mo., against H&R Block yesterday, citing similar accusations. 
 Yet in an unusual twist, H&R Block's expansion in financial services also received a huge boost yesterday. Shortly after Mr. Spitzer announced the lawsuit, the company received word that it had been approved by federal banking regulators to start its own savings bank. 
 The Office of Thrift Supervision said yesterday that it was aware of the various government investigations into the company's practices, including Mr. Spitzer's, but concluded that H&R Block ''appropriately addressed those issues'' and that the matters did not cause the company's ''character and responsibility'' to be inconsistent with approval.
 In an interview, Mr. Spitzer said: ''I would think the O.T.S., in determining whether H&R had the proper ethical grounding to enter the banking world, examined these issues'' outlined in the lawsuit. 
 ''It's not for me to second-guess their bottom-line determination, but an examination of the facts and the disclosure issues surrounding the fees are important before you let them start a bank.''
 Approval of the banking charter was apparently not enough to offset the news of the lawsuit. Shares of H&R Block tumbled more than 6 percent yesterday, to close at $20.63.
 For Mr. Spitzer, who has successfully led investigations into Wall Street analysts, trading in mutual funds and the insurance industry, the complaint against H&R Block may be his last crusade in the financial services arena. He is currently ramping up his campaign for the Democratic nomination for New York governor.
 A former Democratic New York attorney general, Robert Abrams, now with the law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, is representing H&R Block in this case. 
 Mr. Spitzer has spent a great deal of time in the spotlight in recent years attacking wrongdoing on behalf of investors at many Wall Street financial-services powerhouses. And just as he did in several of those cases, he released internal documents and e-mail messages yesterday showing that H&R Block executives were aware that their customers were losing money on a product marketed as an Express IRA.
 While customers were told the I.R.A. paid ''great rates'' and was ''a better way to save,'' in reality, 85 percent of those who opened the accounts paid more in fees than they earned in interest, according to the lawsuit. 
 For example, a 32-year-old resident of Albany with a taxable income of $17,847 made a one-time minimum contribution of $300 to an Express IRA in 2002. Since then, the investment has earned $10.29 in interest, but incurred $45 in fees, according to the lawsuit.
 Company management, the lawsuit added, took no action to remedy the situation.
 Mr. Spitzer's office is seeking $250 million in fines and refunds.
 H&R Block's chief executive, Mark A. Ernst, said Mr. Spitzer was wrong about the Express IRA. 
 ''He is conveniently ignoring a lot of the important features of the product, including that most low- and moderate-income people don't have the opportunity to save in an effective way,'' Mr. Ernst said. ''We are in a unique position that when they capture their tax benefits, we can help them take action to capture those benefits in other ways.''
 While still the leader in preparing tax returns for individuals, H&R Block's primary business has faced strong competition from competing firms and do-it-yourself software like TurboTax. 
 In recent years, H&R Block has sought to diversify into areas like financial planning and advisory work, which was where the Express IRA's were being offered.
 In its application to start a bank, the firm said it intended to transfer a ''significant portion'' of the present Express IRA and other account funds to its bank.
 Mr. Ernst said he disclosed to federal banking officials who were reviewing Block's bank application ''all relevant discussions we were having with attorneys general.'' He added, ''They clearly knew everything about these cases.''
 While the Office of Thrift Supervision said that H&R Block had informed it of Mr. Spitzer's investigation, ''we didn't know it was at the point where there was going to be a lawsuit,'' said Kevin L. Petrasic, an agency spokesman.
 ''If we became aware of information that we were not aware of at the time of application,'' he added, ''we could take appropriate actions to rescind the application.''
 He noted that the approval was contingent on H&R Block's meeting several requirements and that the company committed itself to taking other measures. 
 But consumer advocates said the approval conditions were far less stringent than others previously imposed. They also questioned why the allegations of illegal lending and fraudulent marketing to low- to moderate-income individuals did not weigh greater against H&R Block's bank application.
 ''This is laughable,'' said Robert L. Gnaizda, general counsel of Greenlining Institute, a public policy and advocacy organization promoting inner-city economic development. ''That is a statement that the charter is of no value. It is a statement that anyone who isn't in prison is eligible for a charter.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer, New York attorney general, discussing a lawsuit that accuses H&R Block of selling investments almost certain to lose money. (Photo by Mike Segar/Reuters)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LAWYERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (63%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Individual Retirement Accounts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%); ROBBINS GELLER RUDMAN & DOWD LLP (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Block, H&r, Inc

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Julie Creswell; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



326 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Picket Fence to Skyline View: Big Builders Come to Town

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
FOR decades, home builders have fed the seemingly endless appetite for the suburban four-bedroom house with the backyard and the picket fence. But increasingly, they are recasting the American dream as a two-bedroom condominium with a gym in the basement and a skyline view from the living room.
 Some of the biggest names in suburban home building are getting into urban condominium development or greatly expanding their presence there. In the New York metropolitan area, urban condos now represent nearly a third of sales for K. Hovnanian Homes, a national suburban home builder based in Edison, N.J., up from 5 percent five years ago. KB Home, a national developer that has built more than 146,000 homes in suburban subdivisions in the last five years, launched a new urban division last year, which is now building its first project, 200 condo units on top of a hotel in downtown Los Angeles.
 At WCI Communities, a Florida-based builder that sold 1,900 single-family homes last year, high-rise development has risen to 40 percent of the company's sales last year from 27 percent of sales in 2000. And in the Bay Area of California, fully half of the sales at Pulte Homes, the nation's second-largest home builder, come from urban condos and town houses, up from none five years ago. 
 The business decision represented by these moves may reflect a major social shift, in which, after two decades of rezoning, promoting and hoping on the part of city governments and urban planners, cities are finally becoming attractive again for large numbers of middle class residents. ''The suburbs are overbuilt, crowded and continuing to spread, and the commutes are getting longer,'' said John K. McIlwain, a senior resident fellow for housing at the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit research group. Meanwhile, ''cities are actually much cleaner, healthier and better run than they were 20 years ago.''
 When Lauren Emblem, a 26-year-old sales representative for a company that sells architectural stone to builders, first considered buying a home, she started looking in more suburban areas like Encinitas, a coastal beach town near San Diego where she grew up. But she quickly realized that she could not afford the single family homes there.
 Downtown San Diego ''was probably one of the least desirable places to live'' when she was a young child in the 1980's, Ms. Emblem said, adding ''it was kind of slummy.'' But now it has been revitalized, and is filled with restaurants, bars, shops and lots of condos.
 Ms. Emblem ended up buying a one-bedroom condo in downtown San Diego at Acqua Vista, an 18-story building developed by K. Hovnanian, a company she was more familiar with as a buyer of the stone she sells for its suburban kitchens and fireplaces. 
 While demand from buyers like Ms. Emblem is part of the reason the home builders are seeking more urban opportunities, increasing difficulties building in the suburbs are also driving them toward the cities.
 In the suburbs, local governments are clamping down on development, making it more challenging to feed the beast of sprawl. ''I think before we can move a shovelful of dirt we probably have to obtain over 30 different permits from probably 12 to 18 different agencies,'' said Ken Plonski, a spokesman for WCI.
 In some cities, meanwhile, governments can be much more helpful to builders, particularly in places where local officials have been trying for years to transform industrial wastelands into vibrant residential communities. As a result, many home builders are breaking ground in satellite cities like Hoboken and Jersey City in the New York area; Emeryville and Oakland in the Bay Area; and Columbia, Md., about 20 minutes outside of Washington.
 With opportunities to build suburban homes quickly dwindling as zoning regulations become stricter and land becomes increasingly scarce in some parts of the country, urban condo development is becoming a matter of survival. ''I will run myself out of business in Southern California if I continue to focus solely on single-family, detached suburban homes,'' said Nick Pappas, president of the Southern California coastal region for K. Hovnanian.
 Still, the timing is imperfect. Condos have been one of the biggest buzzwords of the housing boom of the past decade. But in recent months, with some markets softening, some economists have expressed concern over the number of speculators who bought preconstruction condos during the past few years in hot markets like Miami, Chicago and San Diego. As more of those speculators try to sell their units, some markets could be flooded with inventory, putting pressure on prices and making it harder for new developers to compete for buyers.
 ''You can work a good horse to death,'' said Hans Nordby, research strategist at Property and Portfolio Research in Boston. ''And that horse in the short term has been worked. In the short term there are not a lot of condo buyers left.''
 The home builders say there is plenty of untapped demand among young professionals, singles postponing marriage, couples without children and baby boomers who are looking to cash out their equity from large suburban McMansions and either move back to the city or buy a pied-a-terre.
 Dr. Harold Davis, an internist who has lived for the past 17 years in a 4,000-square-foot, five-bedroom, three-bath house in Morristown, N.J., recently bought a 1,400-square-foot two-bedroom condo at Hudson Tea, a condo conversion in Hoboken by Toll Brothers, the nation's largest luxury home builder.
 Dr. Davis, a stepfather of two grown children who gave his age only as in his 50's, plans to move into the condo with his wife, Christine Davis. At this point, he said, he isn't using most of the space in his suburban home. ''So you heat it, you cool it, you clean it, and you don't use it,'' Dr. Davis said. ''At this stage of life I'd like to have something that was a little less demanding from a maintenance standpoint and that I would fully utilize all of the space.''
 Roger Brush, a group president at Toll who oversees the Hudson River region in New York and New Jersey as well as Michigan and Colorado, said baby boomers would fuel the industry's condo building spree as they sought a youthful way of life. ''You can't get younger, so what's the next closest thing?'' Mr. Brush said. ''Getting cooler. How do you get cooler? You move to these urban communities. There's more activity, there's more entertainment and restaurants.''
 Some older buyers are planning for their eventual retirement by buying urban condos now. Stephen and Ja Kyung Bigger, who are keeping their suburban home in Holmdel, N.J., bought a two-bedroom apartment at Grandview at Riverwalk, a K. Hovnanian development on the waterfront in West New York, N.J. They can see downtown Manhattan from their living room. The couple hopes that one of their children, a daughter who is finishing medical school or a son who is choosing a law school, will use the Grandview condo until the Biggers are ready to retire.
 But younger buyers may have shorter-term plans. Ms. Emblem, in San Diego, said that while she was enjoying her condo now, she still dreamed of a suburban home. ''I think eventually I might move back to the suburbs if I want to have a family,'' she said. ''I want a house with a backyard where I can have kids running around and have a dog.''
 Indeed, one of the biggest questions facing the new condo builders is whether there will be enough demand for the units if middle-class families, still a large group of homebuyers, continue to shun urban living. 
 In certain markets, say home builders, they don't necessarily need those families. In the Bay Area, for example, said Steve Kalmbach, a division president at Pulte Homes, ''the upwardly mobile, single professional buyer who moves out of an apartment into a condo situation'' represents ''a very large buyer pool.'' He added, ''We are a long way from meeting the demand.''
 At the other end of the spectrum, the 800-pound gorilla that is the baby boomer cohort could feed demand for many years to come.
 ''It's clear that a big single family home in the suburbs is not doing well by the baby boom right now,'' said Karl Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College. ''Those of us who are 60 are thinking of cashing out, moving into the Ritz tower and getting our meals brought to us.'' 
 The home builders, he said, ''are looking at the numbers and seeing what's fairly obvious. It doesn't strike me as crazy as long as they are fairly cautious.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FROM FIELD TO CANYON -- Dr. Harold Davis has an empty nest, far left, and a new perch in Hoboken, N.J. Lauren Emblem, near left, passed up suburbia for a starter condo in San Diego. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); SUBURBS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BEACHES (50%); COASTAL AREAS (50%) Housing; Zoning; Urban Areas ; Suburbs ; Condominiums

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (91%); KB HOME CORP (57%); WCI COMMUNITIES INC (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (91%); KBH (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (55%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



327 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Economy Growing at Steady Pace in Most of U.S., Fed Says

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy expanded at a moderate pace across most parts of the country in January and February, while higher energy and materials costs persisted, the Federal Reserve said yesterday.
 Consumer and business spending continued to grow, and pressure to increase wages was little changed, even as employment gained in most places, the central bank said in its beige book report, a regional survey by the 12 Fed district banks. The housing market also cooled, the central bank said. 
 Fed policy makers are watching inflation, the jobs market and factory use to decide how many more times to raise borrowing costs after increasing their main rate 14 times since June 2004. Traders in futures tied to the Fed's benchmark rate expect two more quarter-point increases, on March 28 and May 10, pushing the rate to 5 percent.
 The report is ''fairly positive on growth and fairly positive on inflation being contained,'' said Robert Mellman, an economist at J. P. Morgan Chase in New York. The report fits in with his company's forecast for national economic growth of 5 percent this quarter, he said.
 The beige book is published eight times a year, about two weeks before each Fed interest rate meeting. Yesterday's survey, the first since Ben S. Bernanke succeeded Alan Greenspan as chairman on Feb. 1, reflects information collected before March 6.
 The report described the real estate market as mixed, with home builders in many places saying that sales ''were trending down.''
 ''Residential construction and real estate activity slowed from high levels'' in most Fed regions, while commercial property markets ''were generally more active than at the end of 2005,'' the report said.
 In a separate report yesterday, the Labor Department said that prices of goods imported to the United States fell in February, reflecting declines in costs of petroleum and chemicals and the biggest drop in imported food costs in four years.
 The 0.5 percent decline in the import price index followed a 1.4 percent rise in January. Excluding petroleum, prices dropped 0.5 percent last month, the biggest decline since April 2004.
 Oil and natural gas prices fell last month after stockpiles increased, easing supply concerns. A stronger dollar and less expensive consumer goods from China and other Asian countries are helping to restrain prices outside of energy, economists said.
 ''There's not much to worry about as far as imported inflation is concerned,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez in New York. ''For as long as the dollar hangs in there, we should see a benign reading for import prices excluding fuels.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Moderate Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data are for Jan. 10-March 6.MINNEAPOLISConsumer spending, manufacturing and tourism increased. Agriculture and residental real estate slowed.SAN FRANCISCO (Includes Alaska and Hawaii)The region's economy continued to expand. Retail sales increased. Demand for services rose.CHICAGOConsumer spending and business investment increased. Housing construction and home sales softened.CLEVELANDEconomic growth was steady in all industries. Auto sales and production fell.BOSTONThe economy was strong, with ''some soft spots.'' Retail sales were mixed. Manufacturing and technology were strong.NEW YORKHousing and consumer lending slowed, but economic activity accelerated over all.PHILADELPHIAThe region's economy expanded slowly. Manufacturing increased. Year-over-year auto sales declined.RICHMOND, VA.Retail sales and housing activity decreased, easing economic growth throughout the region.ATLANTARetailers reported robust sales. Auto sales rose while auto production experienced some decline.ST. LOUISManufacturers and the service industry reported improvements. Auto sales decreased in the last year.KANSAS CITY, MO.Consumer spending and housing construction improved. Labor markets and manufacturing declined.DALLASEconomic activity was strong, bolstered by the energy industry. Auto sales fell.(Source by Bloomberg News)Map of the United States highlighting above mentioned cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); IMPORT PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Housing; Sales; International Trade and World Market; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



328 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS: ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Exploding Latino Market Becomes Attractive to Banks

BYLINE: By James Flanigan. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR decades, the words Latino market conjured up images of mom-and-pop groceries selling fresh tortillas and specialty spices. But today, those words translate to El Dorado for increasing numbers of businesses in the Los Angeles area and elsewhere.
 Hector Orci, owner of a Spanish-language advertising agency, says there is $250 billion of ''Latino income'' in the Southern California market, one-fourth of the estimated $1 trillion in annual income nationally of Americans who immigrated or descended from people who came from Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries to the south.
A Los Angeles banker, Russell Goldsmith, chairman of City National Bank, has ambitions to expand in that market. He estimates that there are 340,000 Latino-owned small- to medium-size companies in California, including 25,000 that take in more than $1 million in annual revenue. ''That's a very attractive market,'' Mr. Goldsmith said.
 No surprise then that aspirants to serve that market are multiplying. Two financial groups are each raising $20 million to $30 million to start banks in Los Angeles aimed specifically at Latino consumers and small companies. One of the two is attracting investment from Mexico, while the other has the backing of 30 successful Latino-American families. 
 And a third group, representing the Banco Industrial of Guatemala, wants to open a Los Angeles bank catering to the Guatemalan community of Southern California, which is at least half a million strong. 
 Among backers of these efforts there is a powerful sense that a new time has come, that Latino education and economic attainment is greater than in former times and that political success is rising -- Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles is only one prominent example.
 But there is also a conviction that the market is underserved by banks and financial institutions and that it lacks the access to capital it needs for business loans and mortgages. 
 ''I look at this market in terms of opportunity,'' said Emilio Sanchez-Santiago, who is leading one banking group. 
 A longtime Citicorp banker on three continents, Mr. Sanchez-Santiago expects to receive approval from the California Department of Financial Institutions this year to start a bank. The bank intends to offer capital to entrepreneurs like Maria de Lourdes Sobrino, founder of Lulu's Dessert, and Yolanda Aguilar, founder of Yolanda Aguilar Beauty Institute and Spa.
 ''By bringing Mexican understanding to the products and how people respond,'' said Mr. Sanchez-Santiago, ''we think we have a niche. We are a Mexico-California bank.''
 Ten or more investors from Mexico City and Central America are putting up about $20 million in capital for the bank because they see it creating business on both sides of the border. 
 ''Mexican immigrants in Los Angeles with credit cards can obtain credit status for Mexican people to buy appliances,'' said Jose Akle, a telecommunications company owner in Mexico City. In the long term, said Mr. Akle (pronounced Ah-KLAY), credit status for a business in the United States ''could help small business people in Mexico'' where entrepreneurs currently have little hope of financing. ''We see this as a first step,'' he said.
 The other new bank is being organized by Maria Contreras-Sweet, former secretary of business, transportation and housing for the State of California and now president of Fortius Holdings, a private equity financing firm. The focus of her bank will be on family companies.
 ''In the Latino community, people want to build a business for the generations,'' Ms. Contreras-Sweet said. ''A business owner will say to me, 'I want this for my two sons and my daughter; I want to fix it so they don't have to sell it.' ''
 Accordingly, Ms. Contreras-Sweet sees her bank's mission as helping to integrate Latino Americans into what she calls the mainstream. ''The bank will be called One America, and we can teach how to manage cash flow and how to build a market plan,'' said Ms. Contreras-Sweet, who came with her parents to Los Angeles from Guadalajara, Mexico, when she was 5.
 One America will be backed by successful Latino entrepreneurs and professionals, including Hector and Norma Orci, a couple who were transferred to Los Angeles from Mexico City 24 years ago by McCann Erickson, the advertising agency, to start a Spanish-language service. The Orcis went on their own in 1986 with La Agencia de Orci and Asociados, which today does more than $100 million a year in billings for clients like American Honda Motor, Allstate Insurance and Verizon Communications. 
 ''When we started out we didn't know what a bank could do for us,'' Mr. Orci said. ''As our deposits grew, our bank came round but still they didn't seem to know how to help us.'' 
 By contrast, ''a Latino bank can give understanding and help to small business,'' he said, ''and a Latino bank can invest its money back into the community.''
 Still, most loans to small business are made by the giants Bank of America and Wells Fargo, which use a sophisticated financial matrix to measure creditworthiness of loan applicants. 
 And in highly entrepreneurial California, a bank like City National, with almost $15 billion in assets, sees small companies as its specialty and has no intention of ceding business to Latino start-ups. 
 ''We have the capital and personnel and ability to offer family companies many services that start-ups will have difficulty equaling,'' said its chief executive, Mr. Goldsmith. To underline that point, City National Bank is appointing an advisory board of Latino business people and professionals to bolster its access to the market. 
 Such competition does not faze Eloy Ortega, who is leaving the small business bank he founded in Santa Barbara, Calif., to take the top job at One America. 
 To Mr. Ortega the need for specialized service is vast. ''I know Latino-led companies with $20 million in annual revenue who don't even have a banking relationship,'' Mr. Ortega said. 
 The truth is that the market has become larger and more complex than many believe, said Don M. Griffith, chief executive of a community bank in the Los Angeles area who started his career working in Mexico City with Mr. Sanchez-Santiago and now will be nonexecutive chairman of the Mexico-California bank, which is not yet named.
 ''Many things are changing,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''Latino families are sending sons and daughters to Harvard and Yale, more young Latinos are running for political office, there's a vibrancy in the Latino economy.''
 Such developments have not occurred without a push. ''Six years ago we founded the New America Alliance,'' said Norma Orci, ''to bring pressure on Wall Street to increase capital access for Latinos and to hire Latino M.B.A.'s in their financial companies. We have had some success.'' 
 The organization is led by Latino businessmen and women from all parts of the United States, including Ms. Contreras-Sweet, who is a director of New America, along with Ms. Orci and 26 others. And now Ms. Orci is signing on as a director of Ms. Contreras-Sweet's One America bank to further increase capital access and Latino success. El Dorado, indeed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Contreras-Sweet, president of Fortius Holdings, with an employee, Jame Alva. Her firm is helping to organize a new bank for Latinos. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%) Small Business; Hispanic-Americans

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: James Flanigan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%) California; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



329 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Polygamy and the Marriage Market: Who Would Have the Upper Hand?

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Economics.'' E-mail: rhf3@cornell.edu

 BODY:
MOST people believe that consenting adults should be free to do as they please, provided they do not cause unacceptable harm to others. The difficult question, of course, is what constitutes unacceptable harm. The debut on Sunday night of ''Big Love,'' the new HBO series about a polygamous fictional family in Salt Lake City, has touched off renewed debate about this question.
 Barb, Nicki and Margene, the three heroines of ''Big Love,'' chose to marry Bill Henrickson, a successful businessman able to provide generously for their extended family. Mr. Henrickson chose to marry them. Should society outlaw such arrangements because they cause unacceptable harm to others? If so, who is harmed, exactly, and how? Economic theory, it turns out, has interesting things to say about these questions. 
The traditional argument against plural marriage is that it harms women, particularly younger women who may be coerced to enter such marriages. Needless to say, society should prohibit forced participation in any marriage, whether plural or monogamous. But mature women who freely choose plural marriage reveal a preference for that arrangement. So if plural marriage harms women, the victims must be those who prefer monogamy. 
 It is easy to see how some of these women may be harmed. In a monogamous world, for example, Barb's first choice might have been to marry Bill, who would also have chosen to marry her. But with plural marriage permissible, Bill might prefer to marry not just Barb, but also Nicki and Margene. Barb would then have to choose between two lesser outcomes: a continued search or a plural marriage not to her liking.
 Of course, the mere fact that allowing plural marriage may eliminate attractive options for some women does not imply that it imposes unacceptable harm on women generally. Suppose, for example, that if polygamy were legal, 10 percent of adult men would take an average of three wives apiece and that all remaining marriages would be monogamous. Among aspiring monogamists, there would then be nine men for every seven women. The law of supply and demand applies no less to social relationships than to ordinary commercial transactions. With an excess supply of men in the informal market for monogamous marriage partners, the terms of exchange would shift in favor of women. Wives would change fewer diapers, and their parents might even escape paying for weddings. 
 What about men? Here, too, plural marriage would clearly benefit some. After all, there are surely other men like Bill Henrickson of ''Big Love'' who would not only prefer multiple wives, but also be able to attract them. 
 But what about those who prefer monogamy? Permitting plural unions would, as noted, create an imbalance of men over women among monogamists. With so many formerly eligible women no longer available, the terms of exchange would turn sharply against men (as happened recently in China as a result of female infanticide). Many men would fail to marry at all. 
 In short, the logic of supply and demand turns the conventional wisdom about plural marriage on its head. If the arrangement harms others, the most likely victims are men, not women.
 This conclusion is reinforced if we take account of the costly, and mutually offsetting, jockeying for position associated with men's attempts to win the attention of scarce women. The inherent wastefulness of such ''positional arms races'' is vividly illustrated by examples from nonhuman animal species. 
 The overwhelming majority of such species are polygynous, meaning that some males take more than one mate. Since having multiple mates is extremely advantageous in Darwinian terms, males typically battle one another ferociously for access to females. Size often decides these battles, so males tend to be considerably larger than females in polygynous species. 
 Some bull elephant seals, for example, are more than 20 feet long and weigh more than 6,000 pounds (about as much as a Lincoln Navigator), whereas females are typically less than 12 feet long and weigh about 1,500 pounds. Natural selection favored larger males because the winners of the long and bloody battles between males often command nearly exclusive sexual access to harems of more than 50 females. 
 But although being bigger than one's rivals is clearly advantageous for large seals, they are also less mobile and hence more vulnerable to sharks and other predators. Relative size, not absolute size, governs the outcomes of fights, so it would clearly be better if each male were only half as large. All fights would be resolved as before, yet all males would be less vulnerable to predators. Unfortunately, however, seals have no practical way of curtailing the arms race that makes them so big.
 Permitting plural marriage in human societies would unleash competitive forces analogous to those we see in other species. With women in chronically short supply, men would face even more intense pressure than they do now to get ahead economically, to spend even longer hours honing their abs. More men would undergo cosmetic surgery. Expenditures on engagement rings would rise. Valentine's Day bouquets would be two dozen roses, not just a dozen. Yet no matter how valiantly each man strove, the same number would be destined not to marry. 
 Unlike other animal species, human societies can employ the power of law to constrain such positional arms races. In addition to whatever other purposes they may serve, laws against plural marriage may function as positional arms control agreements that make life less stressful for men. And this may help explain their appeal to the predominantly male legislatures that enact them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLYGAMY (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); MEN (76%); FAMILY (76%); WOMEN (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%) Marriage; Polygamy; Television

PERSON: Robert H Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (72%) UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



330 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Solid Reports From the Fed and Sears Push Shares Higher 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after earnings from Sears Holdings exceeded estimates and a Federal Reserve survey showed steady economic growth.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.54 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,303.02. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 58.43, or 0.5 percent, to 11,209.77. Both are at levels not seen since May 2001. The Nasdaq composite index increased 15.94, or 0.7 percent, to 2,311.84. 
Sears rallied $15.02, or 12.8 percent, to $132.29, for one of the top performances in the S.& P. 500. The company said fourth-quarter profit was $4.03 a share on lower costs and a revival in sales at its Kmart unit. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected $3.62.
 Union Pacific gained $5.04, or 5.9 percent, to $90.25. The company raised its per-share earnings forecast for the first quarter more than 20 percent, citing increased shipping volume and better operating margins.
 The outlook helped send a measure of S.& P. 500 railroad stocks, among this year's best performers, up 5.7 percent. That measure is up 16 percent this year as railroads benefit from shipping commodities like coal. Burlington Northern Santa Fe rose $4.80 to close at $81.30. CSX added $3.01 to close at $59.56.
 DuPont rose 95 cents, to $42.87, after announcing that it would increase its profit forecast and cut 1,500 jobs and close plants in Europe. 
 Lehman Brothers Holdings lost $1.15, to $144.15, even after reporting fourth-quarter earnings of $1.09 billion, an increase of 24 percent over the year-earlier period. The company's shares have gained 12 percent this year. 
 Indexes rose after the afternoon release of a regional survey by the Fed's 12 district banks.
 ''Most districts characterized the pace of expansion as moderate or steady,'' the Fed report said.
 Consumer and business spending continued to grow, and pressure to increase wages changed little, the report said.
 Crude oil for April delivery fell 93 cents, to $62.17 a barrel, in New York. The Energy Department reported that United States inventories increased for a fifth consecutive week.
 Treasuries fell after a Federal Reserve index of manufacturing in New York State unexpectedly rose and on signs that foreign demand for the government's debt may be waning. 
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 98 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.73 percent, from 4.69 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (84%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (56%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%); UNP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



331 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: City Takes Steps to Balance Its Water Needs With Flood Protection Upstate 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: DOWNSVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The endless tug-of-war between New York City, with its unquenchable thirst for clean water, and residents of the city's upstate watershed, who fear they will be flooded whenever reservoirs overflow, gets played out daily in Angela and David Walker's home here.
 Mr. Walker is an operating engineer who works under the streets of Manhattan, digging New York's third water tunnel. His father helped build the nearby Pepacton Reservoir dam 50 years ago. They know as well as anyone that the city relies for its very life on the one billion gallons of water a day it draws from 19 upstate reservoirs.
The Walkers' home, a woodsy cabin just downstream from the mammoth Pepacton Reservoir, has been flooded at least five times in the last few years, and now they, like many others in this rural corner of Delaware County more than 120 miles from New York, blame the city for holding so much water in its reservoirs that a big rain or snowmelt can cause devastating floods. 
 ''I'm not comfortable living here anymore,'' said Mrs. Walker, 47, an aide in the local public school. Every time she hears it is going to rain, she makes sure her picnic table is chained to a tree and her oil tank is firmly anchored to the ground so they won't wash away. 
 ''To keep that reservoir at the level they keep it at,'' she grumbled, ''is ridiculous.'' The city is beginning to listen. Slowly, against its will, New York is taking steps to prevent floods from ravaging the watershed, even if it means endangering its water level.
 Last week, the city announced a new initiative to empty billions of gallons out of the Pepacton and Neversink Reservoirs to create space so that, if it rains, the threat to residents will be reduced. 
 That is in addition to another plan to release water from the reservoir in an amount equivalent to half the snowpack on adjacent mountainsides. Just this week, Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development, traveled the 130 miles to the farthest of the city's upstate reservoirs to announce that the city would install flood gates and release valves in the 80-year-old Gilboa Dam to control future floods at the Schoharie Reservoir. 
 The changes are a significant shift for the city, which for decades has maintained that it is not in the flood control business, that its primary obligation is to provide water to nine million people in the metropolitan area, and that doing so requires keeping the reservoirs full. 
 ''It's a delicate balancing act,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''Everybody won't get everything they want. We'll all have to compromise. That's the nature of being a good neighbor.'' 
 To be sure, the Bloomberg administration is not planning to release so much water that the city goes dry. No official wants to have to announce water restrictions in a summer after reservoirs were deliberately lowered in the spring. 
 But predicting rainfall months in advance is not an exact science, and miscalculations occur despite advances in forecasting, officials acknowledge. 
 Take, for instance, the four huge steel siphons the city installed early this year at the Gilboa Dam, which needs emergency repairs. The siphons cost $3 million to install, but since construction was completed a few weeks ago, they have hardly been used because the level of the reservoir is already too low for them to function. 
 Officials expressed confidence that they had become much better at balancing supply and demand, but that is apparently not the only reason for the city's willingness to accept some responsibility for flood control. 
 A clear change in weather patterns has brought more intensive storms to the state. Major flooding occurs far more frequently and has become more difficult for the city to ignore. 
 The city has also been under increasing criticism for the way it runs its water system. Falsified dam inspection reports and the deteriorated condition of the Gilboa Dam, which needs major repairs, pushed the State Senate to pass a number of bills holding the city more accountable for the way it manages its water system. 
 One measure, sponsored by Senator John J. Bonacic, a Republican, and supported by several senators from the city, would allow the state to set water levels in the reservoirs to avoid flooding. 
 Emily Lloyd, commissioner of the City Department of Environmental Protection, which runs the water system, stated at a recent public meeting that the reservoirs simply did not have the equipment needed to undertake flood control. She also said releasing water in anticipation of a storm ''defeats the very purpose for which the reservoirs were created,'' providing safe, clean water for New York. 
 And yet, a few weeks later, the city agreed to do just that. Mr. Doctoroff said that while the Senate's actions were not a factor in revising the flood policy, ''it never hurts to be reminded.'' 
 But State Senator James L. Seward, a Republican who represents watershed communities, said there was ''no question'' that the city had bowed to the pressure to accept responsibility for flood control. 
 Under the new rain plan announced earlier this month, the city will lower the water level at the Pepacton and Neversink Reservoirs enough so that each can completely contain the runoff from a storm that leaves an inch of rain in six hours. The program will run through March 31 at both reservoirs. 
 The city is under constant pressure from many different sources with competing and sometimes conflicting claims on the water supply. Upstate residents want the city to release water to prevent flooding. Trout fishermen on the Delaware River expect the city to release cold water in the summer to cool off the trout. 
 And a 1954 United States Supreme Court decision requires the city to share the waters of the Delaware River, which feeds the Pepacton and other reservoirs, with Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware. 
 ''We do what we can to mitigate flooding within the constraints we operate under,'' said Michael A. Principe, director of the city's bureau of water supply, ''but people have to remember that storms cause flooding, not reservoirs.'' 
 Late yesterday, Mr. Principe announced that he planned to retire next month, a move officials said was unrelated to the recent policy changes. 
 If city officials hoped that initiating the new flood control measures would calm the fears of watershed residents, they may be disappointed. 
 Robert A. Homovich, supervisor of the Town of Colchester, which includes Downsville and other small hamlets below the Pepacton Dam, lives with his wife, Shirley, as close to the dam as anyone. Their four-square white colonial, less than half a mile from the reservoir, was originally an office used by the construction crews that built the dam in the late 40's and early 50's. 
 Last April, shortly after the snowpack melt program ended, Mr. Homovich's basement was flooded from floor to ceiling. A smaller house on the back of the property, near the river, was nearly washed away when the flood waters rose so high they lapped against a nearby covered bridge dating to 1854.
 Now the Homoviches have joined other residents in a class action lawsuit accusing the city of mismanaging its reservoir.
 ''Around here we judge people on what they do and not on what they say,'' Mr. Homovich said. ''Their track record of not doing what they say they're going to do makes me suspicious of anything they say.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Walker, who works in Manhattan digging the city's new water tunnel, lives near the Pepacton Reservoir and often finds his home flooded. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); RIVERS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); FLOOD CONTROL (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%) Water; Floods; Reservoirs; Weather

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



332 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Are Tax Breaks for Builders Still Needed in Hot Market? 

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration's recent move to re-evaluate the tax breaks used to encourage apartment construction in New York City has led to the beginnings of what will likely be an impassioned debate: In the hottest real estate market in decades, to what extent do developers still need tax incentives to entice them to build?
 In a report to be released today, New York Acorn, a community group, argues that the city's most popular tax-incentive program, known as 421-a, is not only not generating much moderately priced housing in places like Downtown Brooklyn but is, in effect, subsidizing a lot of expensive housing in gentrifying neighborhoods. 
The group, which claims 36,000 low- and moderate-income families as members, wants the city to change the program to require that all developers receiving these tax breaks for building apartments in much of Downtown and central Brooklyn make 30 percent of all new units affordable to people of modest means.
 The group's report comes less than a month after Mayor Michael A. Bloomberg appointed a task force of developers, housing advocates and others to rethink the program, which city housing officials say has fueled the construction of more than 110,000 units since 1971 but has also cost the city hundreds of millions of dollars in lost taxes a year. 
 ''What we're trying to do is inform that process,'' said Jonathan Rosen, an Acorn spokesman. ''We want to take the mayor's opening and point out that in places where you're selling condos for a million dollars overlooking the East River, you probably don't need to subsidize those developments with money from middle-class homeowners.''
 Under the 421-a program, developers of new multifamily housing in most neighborhoods are eligible for a 10- to-15-year exemption from the increase in real estate taxes resulting from the work, whether or not lower-priced units are built. Only in the so-called exclusion zone, which consists primarily of Manhattan between 14th Street and 96th Street, must developers agree to include some lower-priced units in their project or nearby.
 The Regional Plan Association, a civic group that works to improve the economy and quality of life in the New York region, also raised the issue this week, saying in an article in its newsletter that ''neighborhoods like Wall Street, Harlem, Williamsburg and other communities throughout the five boroughs are hot residential markets in no need of subsidy.''
 The article, by Jeremy Soffin, an association vice president, said: ''If the city is going to add another million people and jobs over the next two decades, we'll need a lot of new development. But the developers need New York just as much as we need them, so our elected officials are positioned to demand that projects make sense for the city, not just the bottom line.''
 New York Acorn, which successfully pressured the Forest City Ratner Companies to include mixed-income housing in its 9.1 million-square-foot Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, looked in its new report at 87 housing development projects in various Brooklyn neighborhoods starting at the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges and extending toward Prospect Park.
 According to the group, all the projects will be eligible for 421-a tax breaks upon completion. But, the group found, relatively few of the nearly 6,000 units expected will be affordable for low- or moderate-income people. Noting that government data shows incomes in the area rising and the black population shrinking, the group suggested that the city was contributing to the displacement of longtime lower-income residents.
 City officials, who were shown the study, said it was far from comprehensive. They said the group had overlooked at least 700 to 800 low- and moderate-income units in the city's pipeline. They said that several of the neighborhoods studied included large percentages of public housing, where rents barely rose, and that in one of the community districts studied, fully 52 percent of all rental units were rent stabilized.
 They and others also said the report included no proof of displacement.
 Nevertheless, a number of housing experts said the report touched on two key questions confronting the city: Where is the housing market strong enough that developers would build market-rate housing even without tax breaks? And can the incentive system be changed to produce more lower-price housing without putting a chill on the market?
 ''With any targeted tax break, there's always a difficulty in targeting it to the developments that actually need it,'' said Ingrid Gould Ellen, an associate professor of public policy and urban planning at New York University and a member of the task force. 
 ''The changing markets add another challenge: You may get it just right today, and then the markets change and some program that looked right today becomes a giveaway tomorrow. Or you may choke off all development.''
 Ron Moelis, a developer of low- and moderate-income housing and a task force member, said he believed there was a general consensus that certain neighborhoods, including TriBeCa, should be added to the exclusion zone. But he added: ''I am not sure it can be broad-brushed and say the whole program should be geared toward low-income housing. I just don't know.''
 Brad Lander, director of the Pratt Center for Community Development and also on the task force, said he would like to see the tax breaks given only where they generated some affordable housing. ''I think the 421-a debate is going to be an interesting one,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FAMILY (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Housing; Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

PERSON: Janny Scott; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



333 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Nassau Chooses Developer To Revive Coliseum Area

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., March 15 

 BODY:
In a marriage of sports and real estate that seems to be emerging as a preferred formula for rejuvenating indolent landscapes, Nassau County officials have chosen a developer to revive the area surrounding the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale.
 Officials involved in the yearlong selection process said that on Thursday, County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi would announce his choice of a $1.5 billion proposal by the Lighthouse Group, one of four plans submitted for consideration.
 The Lighthouse Group is led by Charles Wang, the Long Island businessman and owner of the New York Islanders, who are based at the Coliseum, and by Reckson Associates, a local real estate firm. 
 Mr. Wang was the first developer and for a time the only developer to present a plan for the 77-acre site, most of which is now parking lots. The three other proposals, including one by the owners of the New York Mets, were made only after members of the Nassau County Legislature insisted that the county executive seek competing proposals.
 Mr. Wang seems to have held the inside track all along because he alone could guarantee that a sports franchise, the Islanders, would continue to occupy the county-owned coliseum. But his plan has not been without obstacles. He had initially proposed what he called an ''iconic'' 62-story office tower as the anchor of his project. He backed away from that after opponents complained it would clash with the suburban skyline.
 Mr. Wang had since amended his proposal to include a baseball stadium and a trolley that would connect the stadium to the coliseum and to a mixture of residential and commercial buildings. His plan also proposes $200 million in improvements to the aging arena.
 The plan must still receive approval from the Nassau County Legislature, following what are expected to be well-attended public hearings. Many residential and commercial neighbors of the coliseum have already raised questions about the development's potential effects on traffic congestion and ground water pollution, as well as concerns about competition with existing businesses.
 Since the mid-1980's, when housing and commercial development were coupled with a new baseball stadium in Baltimore, resulting in a successful revitalization of a dying downtown area, a number of cities and older suburbs have sought similar magic by rubbing together sports and real estate development, Houston, Los Angeles and Palm Springs among them.
 In Anaheim, Calif., there are plans to build high-rise condominiums and stores on the land surrounding the Angels' baseball stadium. In Brooklyn, the developer Bruce C. Ratner plans to build a residential and commercial complex over and near railyards with a new Nets basketball arena as its centerpiece.
 The Nassau County officials said their main motivation in the coliseum redevelopment was to bring more people and new tax revenue to an area that is losing both. The 77-acre property is one of the largest undeveloped public properties in Nassau County, where a vast majority of 1.2 million people live in single-family dwellings. 
 In a joint statement on Wednesday night, Jeff Wilpon and David Blumenfeld, the principal partners in the redevelopment plan submitted by the Mets Development Corporation, which was said to be a close runner-up to Mr. Wang's, expressed disappointment:
 ''We believe that a new state-of-the-art arena, a new minor league ballpark with a Mets-affiliated team, a significant commitment to a mass transit connection and the better economic return to the county contained in our plan was compelling.''
 The Mets proposed to demolish the coliseum and build a new arena. While Mr. Wang's plan includes a ballpark, it does not put a team affiliated with Major League Baseball inside, only a team from the unaffiliated Atlantic League.
 Once approved by the Legislature, the plans for the redevelopment project would be submitted for approval to the Town of Hempstead, which holds local regulatory authority over all zoning and planning of new construction, a process that could take two years or more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); SUBURBS (69%); RETAILERS (60%) Baseball; Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum; Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal; Retail Stores and Trade; Housing 

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%) New York Mets; Reckson Associates Realty Corp; Lighthouse Group (Real Estate)

PERSON: Paul Vitello; Charles Wang; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%) Nassau County (NY) ; Uniondale (NY); Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



334 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Arts Center Has A Plan to Help Newark Revive

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 15 

 BODY:
For nearly 40 years, Newark has been trying to fight its way back from the riots of the 1960's and a generation in which people and businesses spilled out of the city to the suburbs on the highways that crisscross it.
 In fits and starts over the last decade, residents have seen some progress in rebuilding the state's largest city: a minor league ballpark, the start of construction on a new hockey arena for the New Jersey Devils, the addition of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center. 
But the benefits, like jobs and tax revenues, have not been obvious, and the urban ills of poverty, high crime, gang violence and substandard housing have persisted. To many, a sense of excitement may not have caught on, and they question whether Newark has actually turned a corner.
 Now civic leaders and city officials are hoping to give the city another little push toward revival, this time pinning their hopes on the performing arts center. 
 Built nine years ago, at a cost of $187 million, the center has been a surprise success story, drawing both crowds and interest, and serving as an effective good-will ambassador for downtown Newark. 
 On Wednesday, Lawrence P. Goldman, the president and chief executive of the arts center, announced a plan to expand both the scope and presence of the complex, in the hopes that it will transform that part of Newark into a haven for artists and art lovers.
 The center is seeking developers interested in becoming a partner in the construction of 250 units of mostly market-rate housing and street-level retail space on a plot of land it owns across the street from the red-brick-and-glass building that houses its concert hall and theater and restaurant complexes.
 Mr. Goldman said the proposed housing towers, like the performing arts center, would look out over the Passaic River and form a southern boundary to an area now envisioned as a ''theater square.''
 Under the plan, 20 percent of the apartments would be set aside for artists with modest incomes, Mr. Goldman said; the rest would be market-rate rentals. The project involves the first new residential construction in downtown Newark in a generation, he said.
 The project is necessary, he said in an interview, ''because no city can be great without downtown housing.''
 If the project gets off the ground, it will be only the latest residential development downtown. Public and private partners are also creating 324 housing units in a former office building, and Rutgers University is building a dorm for its Newark campus a block away from the arts center.
 In nearby neighborhoods, Mr. Goldman said, town houses and two-family homes are sprouting on vacant lots where for years there had been only wildflowers and tall grass.
 ''Urban transformation has always been in the performing arts center's DNA,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''Now we want to ride the wave and amplify the wave of what is happening in Newark.''
 The cost is estimated at more than $100 million, and most of it would be privately financed, but the center will probably seek some public money to help defray the cost of an underground parking garage. Mr. Goldman said he was confident that public money would be found.
 He has some experience in this kind of project. Before coming to Newark, he was the vice president of Carnegie Hall, and he promoted its expansion into housing and office space. The Carnegie Hall Tower includes a mini artists colony in Midtown and has generated considerable income for Carnegie Hall.
 Newark is not the only urban area to pin its revival hopes on an arts institution. Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Brooklyn -- around the Brooklyn Academy of Music -- and myriad smaller struggling cities have hoped to lure more artists and related businesses to their struggling downtowns.
 Although arts institutions are important, said Michael D. Beyard, a senior fellow at the Urban Land Institute, they alone are not a ''silver bullet'' against urban blight. ''If an arts institution is lucky,'' he said, ''they do not have to take much action after they are built, and the private sector will do the heavy lifting of revitalization. But that is the exception and not the rule. Many downtowns have declined so far that to recreate the market is not easy.''
 But Arthur Stern, the chief executive of the Cogswell Realty Group, said he saw other signs that Newark was ripe for revival. His company has already staked more than $200 million on efforts to rebuild the city, including the purchase and renovation of the city's tallest building, a historic office tower. The building, at 744 Broad Street, which reopened in 1999, is nearly full and includes a Starbucks on the ground floor. The company is also completing the renovation of a 28-story Art Deco office tower into 324 units of market-rate housing, with health clubs and a bowling alley for tenants.
 Mr. Goldman said that the performing arts center would seek proposals from several dozen developers with experience in urban settings. Arthur F. Ryan, chairman and chief executive of Prudential Financial, who is co-chairman of the center's board, said the company that was chosen would have to share the center's commitment to ''artistic excellence, opportunity for all and racial diversity.''
 The performing arts center has attracted more than four million people to performances in the nine years it has been open, said Mr. Goldman, who called it an artistic success. Consequently, he said, now was the right time to make the foray into housing. 
 The planned housing will not provide anywhere near the income for the center that Carnegie Hall's office tower has, he said. But he noted that the Newark center owns another nearby parcel, which it would seek to develop next.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of a housing and retail complex costing more than $100 million, proposed for land across the street from the arts center. (Photo by Barton Myers Associates)
 Lawrence P. Goldman, chief executive of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, said that ''no city can be great without downtown housing.'' (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); RIOTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); SUBURBS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); RETAILERS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%) Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Art; Renting and Leasing; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%) New Jersey Performing Arts Center

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; Lawrence P Goldman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



335 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Overture to London Exchange Stirs Talk of a Merger by European Rivals 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HEATHER TIMMONS; Mark Landler reported from Frankfurt for this article and Heather Timmons from London.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 15 

 BODY:
The lengthy mating dance among European stock exchanges may be entering its final whirl, as a potential American takeover of the London Stock Exchange has driven two rival exchange operators, Euronext and Deutsche Borse, into serious merger talks.
 On Wednesday, Deutsche Borse welcomed Euronext's expression of interest in striking a deal that would create a pan-European company with a dominant franchise in derivatives trading.
''We have been quite clear that we consider Euronext the most attractive of all relevant consolidation options that are available to us,'' a spokesman, Walter Allwicher, said. ''That's why we have invited them into discussions. Euronext has responded to our invitation.'' 
 Deutsche Borse, which operates the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, wants a merger of equals that would create ''a global market leader in the industry.'' It would be the world's largest market for futures and options trading.
 Euronext, which operates exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon, has long been mentioned as a partner for Deutsche Borse. But efforts to merge them have been frustrated by disagreements with political overtones, including questions about which would be the senior partner and where the headquarters would be.
 Now, though, these reluctant suitors are being drawn together by the fear that Europe's biggest share market, the London Stock Exchange, may soon be swallowed up by an American market.
 The London exchange rejected an informal offer of $4.1 billion from Nasdaq last Friday. But Nasdaq's campaign is just starting. Its executives are traveling to London to meet with the exchange's largest shareholder, Threadneedle Investments, to try to win support for their offer.
 The New York Stock Exchange is also on the prowl for acquisitions, and because it recently began to trade as a public company, the NYSE Group, it has a ready currency for deals. Analysts and others say it is waiting in the wings. ''Anything could happen at this stage,'' said Guy de Blonay of New Star Asset Management in London.
 Europe's major markets, he noted, have managed to maintain an uneasy power balance for the last few years. The same conflicts that have thwarted a Deutsche Borse-Euronext deal so far have scuttled several efforts by Deutsche Borse to acquire the London Stock Exchange.
 But the economic logic behind mergers is compelling: by pooling the trading of groups of stocks, bonds or derivatives, the exchanges can offer lower prices to buyers and sellers while making more money on the increased trading volume. They can also extract savings by combining operations. The moves to consolidate also reflect the increasingly borderless nature of stock and bond trading in a time of digital technology.
 An acquisition of the London Stock Exchange would upset the balance in Europe, analysts said, by leaving the Continent's exchanges at a distinct disadvantage in their ability to cut costs.
 Adding to the pressure, Deutsche Borse and Euronext each have hedge funds as shareholders. Last year, the funds engineered a successful campaign to oust Deutsche Borse's chief executive, Werner G. Seifert, after he mounted a $2.5 billion takeover bid for the London Stock Exchange.
 Merging Euronext and Deutsche Borse would not revive those concerns, a senior executive at Deutsche Borse said, because a deal would probably involve a swap of shares rather than cash, and then adding, ''The business is so big that there is a lot to go around.''
 Analysts say the hedge fund shareholders would support this merger.
 So, apparently, will political leaders in Germany and France, which is no small consideration at a time when Europe faces resurgent protectionism. France, Spain and Poland are trying to block foreign takeovers of their companies. On Tuesday, though, President Jacques Chirac of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany gave their blessings to this cross-border plan.
 Deutsche Borse, with a market value nearly double that of Euronext, is likely to insist that the headquarters of the merged company be in Frankfurt. But it has floated the idea of consolidating the derivatives operations in London, where Euronext's derivatives subsidiary, Euronext.liffe, is based.
 Derivatives would be by far the biggest franchise of a combined Deutsche Borse and Euronext. With annual trading volume now estimated at 1.54 billion contracts, the successor company would be solidly ahead of its next larger rivals, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade.
 For trading firms, the size of the market is much more important than where the senior management is based. ''As long as we can access it, I'm perfectly happy,'' said Steven Wood, the head of trading at Schroders in London, which uses brokers in dealing. ''Everything is pretty virtual at the moment. If there is a consolidated exchange, it makes it easier for us and the brokers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The statue of a bull stands guard at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The market's parent, Deutsche Borse, has new reasons to consider a merger. (Photo by Michael Probt/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (96%); MERGERS (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); FUTURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Derivatives (Financial Transactions)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BOERSE AG (91%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); NYSE GROUP INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: London Stock Exchange; Nasdaq Stock Market; Euronext; Deutsche Borse Ag

TICKER: DB1 (FRA) (91%); PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%) Europe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



336 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Square One at Ground Zero

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; David W. Dunlap contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 15 

 BODY:
When talks on how to rebuild the World Trade Center site foundered Tuesday night without an agreement, it was more bad news for Gov. George E. Pataki. The governor has made the rebuilding of the site a legacy issue, only to see construction there stymied by delay after delay as his final term in office winds down.
 But the breakdown in negotiations may prove more damaging for the site's developer, Larry A. Silverstein, whose demands at the bargaining table infuriated a governor who had stuck with him through much of the contentious rebuilding process. And by antagonizing the governor, Mr. Silverstein may have lost his most powerful ally. 
New York City officials have long grumbled that Mr. Silverstein -- who leased the World Trade Center six weeks before it was destroyed -- was given such a prominent role in deciding what gets built on the site of the Sept. 11, 2001, attack. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg even spoke of wresting control of the site from Mr. Silverstein. 
 Governor Pataki, though, stayed in Mr. Silverstein's corner. Until now. 
 After talks on the site broke down on Tuesday night, the Pataki administration went on the attack, portraying Mr. Silverstein as a greedy developer.
 Governor Pataki accused Mr. Silverstein's company of betraying the public trust. ''We cannot and will not allow profit margins and financial interests to be put ahead of public interest in expediting the rebuilding of the site of the greatest tragedy on American soil,'' Mr. Pataki said in a statement. 
 Senior Pataki administration officials said they were exploring their options once more to see if it would be possible to take the entire project out of Mr. Silverstein's hands -- Mr. Silverstein has made it clear that he does not intend to remove himself.
 It was quite a rupture in a relationship that Mr. Silverstein had taken pains to cultivate, with Mr. Pataki often responding in kind. Mr. Silverstein recently hired Michael McKeon, Governor Pataki's former spokesman, as a consultant, adding him to a team that already included William Plunkett, the lawyer whose firm once employed both Mr. Pataki and Mr. Pataki's chief of staff, John P. Cahill, who now oversees Lower Manhattan redevelopment.
 Mr. Silverstein said that he was perplexed by the breakdown in talks, as he had felt that they were making progress, and added that he had been saddened by the governor's statement about him. ''I have tremendous respect for the man,'' he said. 
 Janno N. Lieber, a senior vice president at Silverstein Properties, said that Mr. Silverstein tried to call Governor Pataki on Wednesday to ask the governor to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. He did not get through, he said. 
 Pataki administration officials said that Mr. Silverstein might have miscalculated by gambling that Mr. Pataki's desire to get results on the project before he leaves office was so great that he would agree to terms that were less favorable to the state. In his statement, the governor said, ''Our ardent desire to move forward expeditiously must not be used as leverage by Larry Silverstein for his financial demands.''
 But the glacial pace of rebuilding -- four and a half years have passed with little visible progress -- has become an embarrassment for the administration. 
 It has been more than 20 months since Governor Pataki laid the cornerstone on July 4, 2004, and declared, ''Today we build the Freedom Tower.'' But the tower is not exactly rising skyward. 
 Last year the tower had to be redesigned after the New York Police Department raised security concerns about its initial design. That led to some finger-pointing between the city and state over the delay, and raised questions about why security concerns for a building at such a critical location had not been central all along. 
 Charles A. Gargano, the governor's top economic development official, said on Wednesday that if Mr. Silverstein did not begin construction of the Freedom Tower in April, then ''we want him to move out of the way.'' In effect, he is trying to force Mr. Silverstein to begin building what may be the least economically desirable tower of the project, which some of his aides concede could be difficult to lease because of its size, its distance from public transportation and the fear that it could become a target.
 The stumbling rebuilding process is, in a way, unsurprising. The site is owned by the Port Authority, which answers not only to New York, but also to New Jersey. The site was also privatized, giving Mr. Silverstein a say. It is has become a national symbol, but one of vital economic importance to New York City and New York State, which have competing visions of how it should be developed. 
 The complexities are evident. Under one proposal discussed before talks broke off, the Port Authority would have built the Freedom Tower instead of Mr. Silverstein. Such a proposal would mark quite a turnaround for Mr. Pataki, who came in to office trying to get the Port Authority out of the real estate business, and one who called on the Port Authority to sell the World Trade Center in his 1996 State of the State address.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki, in front of the new 7 World Trade Center, is furious at Larry A. Silverstein over the breakdown in rebuilding talks. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITIES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%) World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (69%) Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry A Silverstein; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



337 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Panel Urges Replacing New Jersey School Building Unit 

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
New Jersey should abolish a troubled agency responsible for building and renovating schools in the state's poorest districts and replace it with a new government authority, according to a report released yesterday by a group convened by Gov. Jon S. Corzine to advise him on the issue.
 The recommendation follows a series of highly critical government reports that found delays, cost overruns, mismanagement and waste at the agency, the New Jersey Schools Construction Corporation. 
The corporation was responsible for overseeing the state's $8.6 billion school building program, which was concentrated in the state's poorest districts. It has already spent $3.1 billion in those areas, where it has built 31 schools. But the corporation's interim chief executive, Scott A. Weiner, said yesterday that it had run out of money to build 59 more schools planned in poorer districts and would need $300 million more to construct them, nearly half of that due to inflation.
 Mr. Weiner, who was put in charge of the corporation by Governor Corzine and also sits on the task force, said the corporation's financial problems should ''not be viewed as the overrun of a budget. It is not that the budget was exceeded, but that there were no budgets.'' Cost estimates for a project were used instead of formal budgets, he said. 
 The task force said that a new authority should be established within the state's Treasury Department but that no more money should be spent until it could ensure that it would be spent properly. 
 Mr. Weiner said a new authority was necessary to impose fiscal and management discipline, bring in greater expertise, and regain the confidence of the Legislature and the public. ''The future of the whole program was in question,'' he said.
 The task force found that the corporation had made completing schools quickly its primary goal. ''Management, accountability, reporting, cost control and transparency all took a secondary priority, if recognized at all, to speed,'' the task force report said. 
 But Mr. Weiner said, ''Waste and inefficiency will simply not be tolerated going forward.'' 
 Searches are underway for a new chief executive and a new chief financial officer for the corporation, who will move to the authority if it is created. 
 Governor Corzine said yesterday that he supported the general recommendations of the report, and issued a statement saying the report ''represents a major step in creating a school construction program that is transparent in its process and exceptional in its product.'' 
 The corporation was criticized particularly for paying high fees to project management firms and for buying school sites that required environmental improvement. The report noted that Attorney General Zulima V. Farber was reviewing whether some of the management and environmental expenses could be reclaimed. 
 Ms. Farber is also reviewing all expenses for work not covered by the original contract and may sue to recover money she thinks the corporation was overcharged, the report said.
 Legislative approval is required to create the proposed authority, which would be restricted to the design and construction of new schools. Under the plan, the state's Department of Education would have more power over which schools are built, and local school boards and municipalities would have more voice in choosing sites.
 During a transition from the corporation to a new authority, 128 projects costing approximately $3 billion will still need to be managed. 
 One education advocate expressed concern yesterday about any delays, noting that construction costs would continue rising with inflation and that the projects should be expedited.
 ''Every month of delay now is costing the state millions of dollars,'' said David G. Sciarra, executive director of the Education Law Center, which sued the state for greater parity in education funds between rich and poor districts. ''We need a game plan to move these projects forward now.'' 
 Senator Ronald L. Rice, a Democrat from Essex County and the chairman of the Legislature's joint committee on the public schools, said he was calling for a committee meeting to discuss the proposed plan. 
 ''I'm also concerned that requiring municipalities to donate land for school construction purposes will put local officials, especially in our cities, where open space is nearly exhausted, in the position of imposing eminent domain without the state's backing,'' Mr. Rice said in a statement.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who created the panel, said he supported its general recommendations for recreating a troubled state agency responsible for building and renovating schools in the state's poorest districts. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); POLITICS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%) Education and Schools; Politics and Government; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Building (Construction)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Tina Kelley; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Scott A Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



338 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Congressional Memo; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Despite Dire Predictions, Money Measures Always Talk

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
Despite broad bipartisan agreement that the government is barreling toward a fiscal train wreck, simultaneous Congressional consideration of three major money measures is proving just how hard it is to change course, especially in an election year.
 Lawmakers bemoan the overall debt and annual deficits, but few show much enthusiasm for casting tough votes to cut into them. It was quite the contrary in the House and Senate on Wednesday as efforts to offset new spending were blocked and more dollars were directed to popular causes.
''We don't have too little money in the government,'' said Senator Tom Coburn, a conservative Republican from Oklahoma. ''What we have is not enough will to cut the spending or reform the programs.'' 
 As the House took up a bill to provide almost $92 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as hurricane recovery, the Republican leadership prevented its conservative wing from proposing to pay for the spending out of idle money. Conservatives were left seething that the must-pass money will instead be added to the deficit. 
 Twenty-nine Republicans opposed the party procedural proposal to bring the bill to the floor -- an almost unheard of revolt.
 ''At the end of the day, I think it unfair to make members of Congress choose between our troops and fiscal discipline,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana and a conservative leader.
 In the Senate, Republicans and Democrats engaged in a bidding war over how and by how much to increase spending on ports security after the furor over the transfer of some port terminals to an Arab company. Republicans prevailed on a plan to add $978 million paid for through an across-the-board cut. That was $13 million more than Democrats had proposed, with that sum to be paid for by closing corporate-tax loopholes. But Democrats crowed that they had forced the issue.
 Republicans also joined Democrats in providing more than $1 billion for community-development block grants, supporting a plan by Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is in a tough re-election fight. 
 Spending was also increased for other causes, like veterans' health care.
 The Senate faces a push on Thursday for $7 billion in new money for medical research and education programs, a proposal that would effectively bust the budget ceiling.
 On top of those bills, Congress prepared to approve, grudgingly, a $781 billion increase in the debt limit to pay for prior spending increases and stave off a cataclysmic default.
 The actions disturbed outside advocates of spending restraint, who said Republicans were rolling the dice in the November elections by failing to respond to grass-roots demands for tighter control on spending. 
 ''Somebody needs to stand up and say, Stop me before I spend again,'' said Pat Toomey, a former Republican congressman who heads the economically conservative Club for Growth. ''They do seem to be addicted.''
 Democrats have their own problems with the fiscal approach of majority Republicans. They contend that Republicans have misguided priorities that give short shrift to social programs. 
 The Democrats say deficits created under President Bush are a direct result of a series of tax cuts that Democrats warned would result in a flood of red ink or a push to cut costly benefits. They scoff at recent Republican concern about getting a grip on spending.
 ''They are all worked up about the problem they created,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''Three trillion dollars in debt, and now they figure out they need to control it?''
 Some Senate Republicans acknowledge that they would have preferred to wring more savings out of the budget, which even its author describes as a vanilla spending blueprint drafted with the election year in mind. But with resistance among some Republicans to cuts and the prospect of scant help from Democrats, Republicans say they had little choice. Even with concessions to politics, it is uncertain the budget can pass.
 ''This isn't the budget I would have written,'' Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, said. ''But it is better than the alternative, which is no budget at all and no discipline on appropriations bills.''Republican leaders say they recognize the need to put the government on a more stable fiscal foundation before the retirement demands of the baby boom generation bring what some critics consider an economic house of cards tumbling down. 
 But the new House majority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said it would take a long-term effort to sell the public on the need for significant changes. Mr. Boehner said he did not see it as something to be undertaken in routine spending and budget bills.
 ''To go in and start making cuts without first helping people understand the problem, the extent of the problem, and the fact that these programs are not sustainable for the long term is, I think, political suicide,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma bemoaned a lack of will to improve programs or cut spending. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (64%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (64%); HURRICANES (53%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) 

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); TOM COBURN (73%); PAT TOOMEY (58%); RICK SANTORUM (54%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



339 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 15847 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: March 17 - March 23

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'A NIGHT IN NOVEMBER' Opens today. A revival of the comedy by Marie Jones (''Stones in His Pockets'') about a Protestant clerk in a Belfast, Ireland, welfare office who for the first time in his life does something really crazy (1:30). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444.

'WALK THE MOUNTAIN' Opens Sunday. Jude Narita performs monologues by Vietnamese and Cambodian women in this solo show, created from interviews with real people (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'FARENHEIT 451' Opens Tuesday. Ray Bradbury's cult vision of the future is adapted for the stage (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'THE PROPERTY KNOWN AS GARLAND' Opens Thursday. Another year, another Judy. This time, the 1970's sexpot Adrienne Barbeau -- Rizzo from the original ''Grease'' -- plays Judy Garland backstage at her final concert (1:30). The Actors Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200.

'BASED ON A TOTALLY TRUE STORY' Previews start Thursday. Opens April 11. A Hollywood deal makes a comic-book writer re-evaluate his relationships in this new play by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'THE CATARACT' Opens April 2. Two upstanding Midwesterners welcome a transient Southern couple into their home in Lisa D'Amour's sensual new play (2:15). Woman's Project/Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'FESTEN' Previews start Thursday. Opens April 9. Based on the film ''The Celebration,'' this London transfer, starring Julianna Margulies, Larry Bryggman and Michael Hayden, is about a Danish man who confronts some old secrets at a family reunion (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'FRAGMENT' Previews start Wednesday. Opens March 26. Classic Stage Company presents a new play based on bits and pieces of Euripides and Sophocles. Pavol Liska directs (1:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 677-4210.

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' Opens March 27. Something of a phenomenon in the late 1960's, this French singer's romantic music returns to New York in this musical, which features tangos, ballads, boleros and rock 'n' roll (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'PEN' Previews start Thursday. Opens April 2. A college-bound student struggles with his dysfunctional parents in this new play by David Marshall Grant (''Snakebit''). J. Smith-Cameron stars (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'SHOW PEOPLE' Opens April 6. A new comedy by Paul Weitz (''Privilege'') about two actors who are hired by a banker to impersonate his parents. Debra Monk stars (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

'TRIAL BY WATER' Opens March 26. The Ma-Yi Theater Company's allegorical work by Qui Nguyen is about two Vietnamese brothers who set off for America. John Gould Rubin directs (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'TRYST' Previews start Tuesday. Opens April 6. A womanizing con man tries to seduce a love-starved shop girl in Karoline Leach's new drama set in Edwardian England (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'WELL' Opens March 30. After a successful run at the Public Theater, Lisa Kron and her mom, played by Jayne Houdyshell, come to Broadway in this metadrama about theater, sickness and family (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''Barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' The arrival of Jonathan Pryce and his eloquent eyebrows automatically makes this the season's most improved musical. With Mr. Pryce (who replaces the admirable but uneasy John Lithgow) playing the silken swindler to Norbert Leo Butz's vulgar grifter, it's as if a mismatched entry in a three-legged race had become an Olympic figure-skating pair (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this drama by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

* 'RABBIT HOLE' Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of David Lindsay-Abaire's wrenching play, about the impact of the death of a small child, lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly, directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RING OF FIRE' The man in black turns sunshine yellow in a show that strings songs associated with Johnny Cash into a big, bright candy necklace of a musical revue, created and directed by Richard Maltby Jr. In the current bio-flick ''Walk the Line,'' Cash wrestles demons; ''Ring of Fire'' wrestles with a really bad case of the cutes (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'BERNARDA ALBA' Michael John LaChiusa's musical adaptation of Federico Garcia Lorca's tragedy of sexual repression often feels wan and weary, though not for want of erotic imagery. The ominous, oppressive atmosphere that makes Lorca's play so much more than a potboiler is mostly missing in inaction. Graciela Daniele directs a game ensemble led by a miscast Phylicia Rashad (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'CHRISTINE JORGENSON REVEALS' Bradford Louryk meticulously lip-syncs a fascinating hourlong interview about gender and sexuality with Ms. Jorgenson, whose sex change operation in the 1950's was big news (1:00). The Studio Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Zinoman)

'DEFIANCE' The second play in John Patrick Shanley's cycle of morality dramas that began with ''Doubt,'' this ambitious tale of racial relations and the military mindset on a North Carolina marine base feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt'' has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a flustered air of distraction. The excellent Margaret Colin, as an officer's wife, provides a welcome shot of credibility (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'FAMILY SECRETS' Performing old jokes with meticulous detail, Sherry Glaser in her solo show brings to life three generations of a Jewish family (1:30). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Zinoman)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'GEORGE M. COHAN TONIGHT!' The all-singing, all-dancing Jon Peterson summons the spirit of this legendary Broadway entertainer in this engaging one-man musical, devised and directed by Chip Deffaa (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737.(George Hunka)

'GREY GARDENS' As the socialite in limbo called ''Little'' Edie Beale, Christine Ebersole gives one of the most gorgeous performances ever to grace a musical. Unfortunately, she's a pearl of incalculable price in a show that is mostly costume jewelry. Adapted from the Maysles brothers' 1975 cult documentary movie, a camp favorite, and directed by Michael Greif, with the excellent Mary Louise Wilson as Edie's bedridden mother (2:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'HEDDA GABLER' In the title role of Ibsen's destructively dissatisfied heroine, Cate Blanchett is giving roughly a dozen of the liveliest performances to be seen this year, all at the same time, in the Sydney Theater Company's visiting production. A mere one or two at this level of intensity would have been enough. But she remains compellingly watchable in Robyn Nevin's hyped-up, spasmodic production (2:25). Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. (Brantley)

* 'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' The plot line -- single New Yorkers in search of love -- couldn't be more familiar, but somehow this fluffy, funny musical makes it refreshing, helped along by an engaging six-member cast, with David A. Austin making a particularly hilarious impression. An impressive start for Ryan Cunningham (book and lyrics) and Joshua Salzman (music), both still in their 20's (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Neil Genzlinger)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MEASURE FOR MEASURE' A solid revival of one of Shakespeare's problem plays in which the director Beatrice Terry has opted to emphasize the humor, especially in the scenes of comic relief. A staging with handsome costumes and that for the most part boasts a fine cast, whose members have made some smart choices (2:30). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Wilborn Hampton)

'MEASURE FOR PLEASURE' A mock-Restoration comedy by David Grimm. Seeking to do a little restoration work of his own, he inserts great chunks of fresh dirt into every nook, cranny and convention of an old form. Acted to the hilt by a first-rate company under the direction of Peter DuBois, this tirelessly ribald comedy will tickle, offend or simply bore in measures that will vary according to your taste for blatantly vulgar sexual comedy (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE MUSIC TEACHER, A PLAY/OPERA' A pair of interlocking monologues surrounding a little parody of an opera, with text by Wallace Shawn and music by his brother Allen. Written two decades ago and shelved when the authors failed to find a producer, this is a minor-key, underrealized work that hits a few elegiac notes but steps too gingerly around the psychosexual trauma at its core (1:45). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, this play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SOLDIER'S WIFE' When this play first opened on Broadway, World War II was shuddering to a close, and those on the home front wanted to feel good. Despite flaws in the work, the Mint Theater Company's revival of Rose Franken's 1944 comedy is highly entertaining (2:00). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Honor Moore)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to the classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood)

* 'TRANSATLANTIC LIAISON' A play fashioned from Simone de Beauvoir's love letters to the American novelist Nelson Algren and scenes from her novel ''The Mandarins'' (which tells the story of their affair). Wonderful performances by Elizabeth Rothan as de Beauvoir in love, and Matthew S. Tompkins as the emotional Algren (1:30). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Moore)

Off Off Broadway

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright (Yussef El Guindi) addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after 9/11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

'BLUFF' Jeffrey Sweet's mostly comic tale of a young New York couple whose tentative romance is disrupted by a boorish stepfather has great fun playing with the audience through direct address and such, but it is executed with too much smirking (1:25). 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Genzlinger)

'EL QUIJOTE' Sancho Panza is the real star of this often rollicking but uneven adaptation of Cervantes's ''Don Quijote.'' Caution: no windmills. In Spanish with simultaneous English translation (1:40). Repertorio Espanol, at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920. ( Hunka)

* 'FAT BOY' John Clancy's knockabout satire is blessed by a roaring performance by Del Pentecost as the round, murdering title character (1:30). Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo, (212) 868-4444. ( Zinoman).

'SAVAGES' Lurking somewhere in this stiff new play by Anne Nelson is a compelling op-ed piece yearning to be set free. Examining a little-known episode from the Philippines-American war at the turn of the last century, the author of the popular play ''The Guys'' argues that the United States involvement in Iraq echoes that previous mess. Unfortunately, the play has too much information to impart to allow time for nuanced drama to emerge (1:30). Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'33 TO NOTHING' A band break up while playing break-up music in Grant James Varjas's comic, sometimes poignant play. Music performed by the actors. Argo Theater Company, at the Bottle Factory Theater, 195 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444. (Gwen Orel)

'WE USED TO GO OUT' Jason Mantzoukas and Jessica St. Clair revive the tradition of male-female comedy team in this appealing sketch about a disintegrating romance (1:00). UCB Theater, 306 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 366-9176). ( Zinoman)

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100.(Van Gelder)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

* 'ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL' This Theater for a New Audience production inspires a quiet prayer of thanks to the theater gods. Here is that rare Shakespeare production in which there is nary an incompetent, misjudged or ineffective performance in a significant role. Darko Tresnjak and his cast find a way to make the play's troubled romance, between the adoring Helena and the disdaining Bertram, psychologically credible and even touching (2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

'INDOOR/OUTDOOR' A comedy by Kenny Finkle about a housecat torn between affection for her human companion and a sexy tomcat promising a tour of the great outdoors. Directed by Darren Goldstein and energetically performed by a cast of four, it's essentially just another dysfunctional relationship tale, with little kitty whiskers drawn on (1:50). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

'THE LAST NIGHT OF SALOME' More an acting exercise than a play, this Italian import is a showcase for the body language and physical comedy of a teacher of movement theater, Lydia Biondi, who portrays an unhappy middle-aged bar owner in 1950's Rome who meets and briefly bonds with a famous actress played by Carla Cassola. In Italian with English supertitles (1:05). LaMaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; closing Sunday.(Andrea Stevens)

'OFFSPRING' Jimmy Barden's play about a rich white woman consorting with a young black radical recalls Tom Wolfe's cynical take on Leonard Bernstein's 1970 party for the Black Panthers. The comic moments don't, alas, redeem the characters' tired and tiresome politics (2:00). Presented by the Negro Ensemble Company, at the 45th Street Theater, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing Sunday.(Miriam Horn)

'PARADISE LOST, THE MUSICAL' This earnest -- probably too earnest -- musical take on Milton's epic shows off some good voices in the young cast of 20, but there's something purgatorial about it (2:00). The Producer's Club II, 616 Ninth Avenue, between 43rd and 44th Streets, Clinton, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. ( Genzlinger)

'THE TRAVELING LADY' A small but affecting production of Horton Foote's 1954 play, produced by Ensemble Studio Theater in association with Baylor University, where Marion Castleberry's staging originated. Like ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' of roughly the same vintage, this is a delicately drawn portrait of an anxious spirit in search of home, in this case a young wife looking to reunite with her ne'er-do-well husband (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday. (Phoebe Hoban)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'AQUAMARINE' (PG, 109 minutes) In this sweet comedy for the crowd that has outgrown ''The Little Mermaid,'' two likable pals (Emma Roberts and Joanna Levesque, a k a the singer JoJo) try to help a mermaid (Sara Paxton) find love and learn how to use her feet properly.(Neil Genzlinger)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. (Mr. Lee won the Academy Award for best director.) Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. (Mr. Hoffman won the Academy Award for best actor.) Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'CRASH' (Academy Award, Best Picture) (R, 107 minutes) A gaggle of Los Angeles residents from various economic and ethnic backgrounds collide, sometimes literally, within an extremely hectic 36 hours. Well-intentioned, impressively acted, but ultimately a speechy, ponderous melodrama of liberal superstition masquerading as realism. (Scott)

'DAVE CHAPPELLE'S BLOCK PARTY' (R, 103 minutes) The setup is blissfully simple: a free block party on a dead-end street in Bed-Stuy, with a lineup of musicians, some of whom, like Kanye West and Mos Def, have put in appearances on ''Chappelle's Show.'' The nominal idea, Mr. Chappelle explains on camera, was ''the concert I've always wanted to see.'' The result, which ping-pongs between Brooklyn and Mr. Chappelle's hometown in Ohio, is a tantalizing sketch-portrait of the artist amid an outpouring of hard beats and soul. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'THE SHAGGY DOG' (PG, 98 minutes) Tim Allen is a prosecutor who is going, as it were, to the dogs in this revisiting of the old Disney film, which is far livelier than its namesake. Scenes in which Mr. Allen tries to fight off his inner canine while a no-nonsense judge played by Jane Curtin is holding a trial are comic gems.(Genzlinger)

'16 BLOCKS' (PG-13, 105 minutes) If Richard Donner's presence suggests that his new action flick, ''16 Blocks,'' is a throwback to the 1980's, so does one of the names holding pride of place above the title, Bruce Willis. Mr. Willis has always been an acquired taste, but for those who did acquire that taste, it's a pleasure to see him doing what comes naturally. Which means holding a gun and fending off bad guys with as few words as possible. (Dargis)

* 'SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS' (No rating, 117 minutes, in German) The gripping true story of Sophie Scholl, an anti-Nazi student activist in the 1940's, arrested and executed for distributing leaflets at Munich University, challenges you to gauge your own courage and strength of character should you find yourself in similar circumstances. (Holden)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the movie rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'Tsotsi' (R, 94 minutes) (Academy Award winner for best foreign film.) Written and directed by Gavin Hood, from a novel by Athol Fugard, this South African film centers on a 19-year-old thug who steals a baby and finds redemption. You don't have to read crystal balls to see into Tsotsi's future; you just need to have watched a couple of Hollywood chestnuts. (Dargis)

'ULTRAVIOLET' (PG-13, 80 minutes) The latest in movies structured around eyewear and abdominals, ''Ultraviolet'' stars Milla Jovovich as a genetically modified human -- part vampire, part chameleon, all model -- and one of the many victims of a government experiment to improve on nature. Directed by Kurt Wimmer with a fine eye for the preferences of 12-year-old boys, ''Ultraviolet'' cleaves faithfully to its comic-book genealogy with a plot unobstructed by big words and images that rarely breach two dimensions. Ultrasilly. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon (winner of the Academy Award for best actress), who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

ANNA MAY WONG (Through April 16) Wong, the first Chinese-American movie star, would have turned 100 last year. (She died in 1961.) The Museum of the Moving Image's extensive seven-week retrospective of her work continues this weekend with ''The Thief of Bagdad'' (1924), the movie that made her career (she plays a double-crossing slave opposite Douglas Fairbanks Sr.); ''Chu Chin Chow'' (1934), a retelling of the story of Ali Baba and the 40 thieves; and ''A Study in Scarlet'' (1933), a Sherlock Holmes mystery in which Wong plays a very suspicious widow. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Anita Gates)

CANADIAN FRONT 2006 (Through Monday) The Museum of Modern Art's annual exhibition of recent films from Canada includes Amnon Buchbinder's ''Whole New Thing'' (2005), a coming-of-age story about an adolescent writer who develops an attachment to his gay English teacher; Carl Bessai's ''Unnatural and Accidental'' (2006), a drama about a serial killer of aboriginal women; and Allan King's ''Memory for Max, Claire, Ida and Company'' (2005), a documentary set at a Jewish home for the elderly in Toronto. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

DON SIEGEL (Through April 13) Siegel, who died in 1991, was a master of several genres, including science fiction, westerns and police thrillers. Film Forum's four-week, 25-movie retrospective of his work begins today with ''Charley Varrick'' (1973), starring Walter Matthau as a small-time crook whose bank heist appears to be too successful. Other films in the program will include ''Invasion of the Body Snatchers'' (1956), the alien-pod sci-fi classic; ''The Verdict'' (1946), a Scotland Yard mystery starring Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet; ''Baby Face Nelson'' (1957), with Mickey Rooney as the title criminal; and ''Dirty Harry'' (1971), in which Clint Eastwood first asks a punk whether he feels lucky. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Gates)

MAN IN THE DUNES: DISCOVERING HIROSHI TESHIGAHARA (Through Sunday) BAMcinematek's tribute to Teshigahara (1927-2001), the artist, filmmaker and flower arranger, concludes this weekend with ''Woman in the Dunes'' (1964), his masterpiece drama about an entomologist trapped in the desert. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

RECENT FILMS FROM FINLAND (Through Wednesday) Scandinavia House continues its four-month program of Scandinavian films with a series of Finnish features. The last -- ''Gourmet Club'' (2004), Juha Wuolijoki's comedy about a cash-strapped doctor who needs a mystery ingredient for a special dinner -- will be shown on Wednesday. 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

RENDEZ-VOUS WITH FRENCH CINEMA (Through Sunday) The Film Society of Lincoln Center and Unifrance USA's annual series concludes this weekend. Films include ''Cold Showers'' (2005), Antony Cordier's debut feature about two teenage judo enthusiasts and a beautiful girl; Danis Tanovic's ''Hell'' (2005), starring Emmanuelle Beart and Carole Bouquet and written by Krzysztof Piesiewicz, Krzysztof Kieslowski's longtime collaborator; and Yves Angelo's ''Grey Souls'' (2005), based on Philippe Claudel's novel set during World War I. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600; and IFC Center, 323 Sixth Avenue, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $12. (Gates)

SOME KIND OF HORROR SHOW (Through March 30) BAMcinematek's annual festival of horror movies continues next week with three films. Two early Hollywood greats, Lionel Barrymore and Bela Lugosi, star in Tod Browning's ''Mark of the Vampire'' (1935). Nicholas Roeg's film ''The Witches'' (1990), with Anjelica Huston, is about a coven having a convention. Roy Boulting's ''Twisted Nerve'' (1968) is a British splatter movie with a Bernard Hermann score. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ANIMAL COLLECTIVE (Thursday) These moody junkyard folk-poppers find a kind of romance in wails and clatter. Their cracked progressive-rock jams and urban pastoral chant-alongs map a landscape where fantastical beasts gather for ritual rocking around trashcan campfires. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sold out.) (Laura Sinagra)

ANNIE (Monday) This Norwegian singer's happy dance pop takes on darker aspects as a result of her associations with the minimalist techno club scene and work with bands like the glitchy Royksopp and the art-poppy St. Etienne. 7 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $10. (Sinagra)

THE ARK, PRINCESS SUPERSTAR (Thursday) The Swedish band the Ark plays fast and loose with glam regalia, trafficking in party music with titles like ''Let Your Body Decide.'' The cheeky trash-rapper Princess Superstar's raps about the joys of juvenile delinquency, like ''Bad Babysitter,'' have gained her a reputation as the female Eminem. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $13. (Sinagra)

BLACK 47 (Tonight) Black 47 represents Irish rock, New York style, where memories of jigs and reels and Irish history run into immigrant tales, politics and hip-hop. 6:30 and 10, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $17 in advance, $20 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

SIR RICHARD BISHOP (Wednesday) As part of the long-running trio of Bay Area jazz, folk and rock collagists Sun City Girls, the guitarist Sir Richard Bishop has had a sympathetic outlet for his brand of sonic expression -- which can veer from Middle Eastern modes to jazzy vamps to John Fahey-like rambles. He plays solo here. 8 p.m., Union Pool, 484 Union Avenue, at Meeker Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 609-0484; $8. (Sinagra)

CHRIS BROWN (Tonight) Riding rough beats with a childlike sweetness on the single ''Run It,'' the teenage R & B singer Chris Brown snags both the adult hip-hop crowd and younger fans who liked Usher's ''Yeah.'' 8, Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street, Englewood, N.J., (201) 816-8160; $35 to $55. (Sinagra)

EXENE CERVENKA AND THE ORIGINAL SINNERS (Wednesday) The doyenne of Los Angeles punk rock and co-lead singer of the seminal rock group X does her own thing with this band. 7 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780 or ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sinagra)

CHIEFTAINS (Tonight) The Chieftains spearheaded a revival of Irish traditional music, playing only the oldest instruments: fiddle, harp, wooden flute, uileann pipes, bodhran, tin whistle. Then they decided that Irish tradition wasn't enough and started to look further afield: to Spain, to China, to rock. Their concerts started to rely more on personality and gimmicks than on music. But they have been returning to their Irish core, and there's a great ensemble behind the shtick. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $75. (Pareles)

JOHN DOE (Tonight) The singer-songwriter John Doe has followed his years fronting the seminal punkers X with albums that are more low-key yet just as intimate. 9, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 798-0406; $12. (Sinagra)

THE GO! TEAM (Monday) This British group brilliantly merges the wistful nostalgic wing of sample-based post-rock with live junkyard bash, the sassy girl rap of MC Ninja, and cheerleader chants. Themes, hooks and digressions overlap. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

JOSE GONZALEZ (Wednesday) This singer-songwriter, a Swede of Argentinean descent, is one of those many devotees of Elliot Smith (who died at 34 in 2003) who do the intimate acoustic guitar and lulling vocal thing, but don't quite find the pathos. 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $15. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

JOE HURLEY'S ALL STAR IRISH ROCK REVUE (Tonight) For the seventh year, Joe Hurley and his band spend St. Patrick's night backing up an assortment of singers, including Michael Cerveris, James Chance, John S. Hall, Mary Lee Kortes, Joe McGinty, Andy Shernoff and Tammy Faye Starlite, who will perform Irish gems by the likes of Thin Lizzy, U2, Van Morrison, Sinead O'Connor, Morrisey and the Pogues. The music starts at 7:15 with the Itinerants, followed by Joe Hurley & the Gents at 8. The Irish Review starts at 9. Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20. (Sinagra)

JENNY LEWIS & THE WATSON TWINS (Tomorrow and Sunday) Jenny Lewis is the frontwoman of Rilo Kiley, and her solo material is inspired by Laura Nyro-style 1970's white soul. Her combination of school-recital fussiness and barely-caught cry is in fine form, but it's her vocal tone and phrasing that make her special. Especially here, where her pointy songbird desperation is augmented by the gospel-tinged Watson Twins. 8:30 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $19. (Sold out) (Sinagra)

TEJENDRA NARAYAN MAJUMDAR (Thursday) The lutist Tejendra Narayan Majumdar learned his craft from Ustad Bahadur Khan and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, and focuses on the Senia gharana style. 8 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $25. (Sinagra)

MUSIC AND VOICES OF CENTRAL ASIA (Tuesday) The Agha Khan Music Initiative put together this bill featuring Tengir-Too from Kyrgystan, the Academy of Shashmaqam from Tajikistan and the Homayun Sakhi & Taryalai Hashimi from Afghanistan. 8 p.m., Columbia University Miller Theater, 116th Street and Broadway, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, www. akdn.org ; $25. (Sinagra)

THE POGUES, THE WALKMEN (Tonight through Sunday) Before every beer-brewing ethnicity spawned a punk band modernizing its traditionals with distorted guitar and aggressive, often hilarious howls, there was Ireland's Pogues. Its leader, Shane MacGowan, a man of tossed-off wit, ubiquitous slur and few teeth, has picked up where he left off before the band went on hiatus in the 1990's. Mr. McGowan is also DJ-ing a special St. Patrick's Day show at Southpaw that's sure to be wild. (See www.spssounds.com for details.) The Walkmen were part of the rock is back scene of a few years ago and are back to say it's still back. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com, (212) 307-7171; $50. (All shows sold out.) (Sinagra)

THE PRODIGY (Wednesday) The hard-edged techno of pulverizing songs like ''Firestarter'' were given theatrical flair by the group's leader, Liam Howlett, whose mercurial antics have made him a standout in the impersonal world of dance music. 9 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com, (212) 307-7171; $35. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

MATT POND PA(Tuesday) This band has lots of nicely formed indie-pop songs, none very memorable. Live, however, the band, which features a cello, delivers with a forceful crispness. Doors open at 8 p.m., show at 9 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $12. (Sinagra)

SAM PREKOP (Sunday) Part of the Chicago group of musicians that pioneered mid-1990's jazz and electronic post-rock music, the singer and guitarist Prekop is a smooth, if overly genteel, singer and a fluid player. His group the Sea and Cake benefited from his light touch and wistful vocals. 7:30 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, between Sterling Place and St. John's Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $15. (Sinagra)

THE RAKES, TOWERS OF LONDON (Tuesday) The Rakes' jagged riffs and tempos suggest the Strokes, though these London boys also recall their hometown's snarkier 1970's punkers. Towers of London play dedicated glam-rock a la the Darkness. 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $13 (sold out). (Sinagra)

SILVER JEWS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Few songwriters express their misery as poetically as the Silver Jews' David Berman. You really can't argue with lines like ''Sometimes a pony gets depressed'' and ''I wanna be like water if I can/ Cause water doesn't give a damn.'' His recent album, ''Tanglewood Numbers'' (Drag City), is his best. 6, Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600, (212) 353-1600; $20. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

STEREOLAB (Tonight and tomorrow night) The blip-blip movement of the 1990's never had such soothing purveyors of machine love, cooing socialist come-ons and retro-futurist airport lounge reveries. 8, Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $25 and $35. (Sinagra)

LEROY THOMAS AND THE ZYDECO ROADRUNNERS (Tomorrow) Straight from the bayou comes Leroy Thomas, who's part of zydeco's youth movement: singing in English and playing piano accordion, as well as the older-style single-row accordion while the rub board clatters merrily. 9 p.m., Connolly's on 45th, 121 West 45th Street, second floor, Manhattan, (212) 597-5126 or (212) 685-7597; $20. (Pareles)

FARID AYAZ QAWWAL (Tomorrow) The son of Grand Master Munshi Raziuddin, Farid Ayaz Qawwal sings traditional qawwali, the Sufi devotional music. 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 220-1460 or (212) 477-5329; $35 to $100. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

* Barbara Cook (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) This Broadway legend is loose, down-home and, as always, magnificent, singing a 25-year retrospective of songs she has performed at the Cafe Carlyle. 8:45 p.m., with additional shows tomorrow night at 10:45, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $85; dinner required at the 8:45 shows.(Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ALL THAT JAZZ: NOW THAT'S HIP! (Tuesday) This annual concert, sponsored by the HIP Health Plan of New York, traditionally features the trumpeter Wynton Marsalis with his bluesy septet; this edition also benefits from the inclusion of Curtis Stigers, a charismatic singer and saxophonist with a broadminded approach to repertory and a retro-stylized stage persona. 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, www.jalc.org; $105.50 and $135.50. (Nate Chinen)

BILLY BANG GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow night) As a violinist and composer, Mr. Bang favors the astringency and formal tension of the 1970's loft scene; his frontline partner here is the equally adventurous saxophonist and flutist James Spaulding. 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

PATRICIA BARBER (Wednesday) Ms. Barber's lyrical verbosity and arch intellectualism are uncommon traits for a jazz singer; she also plays piano in her working band, which features the often-impressive guitarist Neal Alger. 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $42. (Chinen)

KENNY BARRON TRIO (Tuesday through March 26) Mr. Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and rhythmically surefooted piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting; he'll most likely explore at least a few different styles here, with Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

PAUL BOLLENBACK QUINTET (Wednesday) As on his self-assured new album, ''Brightness of Being'' (Elefant Dreams), the guitarist Paul Bollenback brings a sleek post-bop ethos to material ranging from Ray Charles to Puccini, with a strong ensemble including Gary Thomas on tenor and soprano saxophone, Chris McNulty on vocals and Jeff (Tain) Watts on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

* ANTHONY BRAXTON 12+1(TET) (Tonight through Sunday night) Mr. Braxton, the saxophonist and composer, is a monumental but often puzzling figure in the avant-garde; yet his influence has resonated clearly with a bright new generation of players, a dozen of whom will perform his music here. 8 and 10, with an 11:30 show tonight and tomorrow night, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

IGOR BUTMAN QUARTET (Wednesday through March 25) Mr. Butman is a powerfully proficient tenor and soprano saxophonist and Russia's most accomplished jazz musician; he teams up with one of his countrymen (the pianist Andrei Kondakov) and a pair of top-flight Americans (the bassist Eddie Gomez and the drummer Lenny White). 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ELLERY ESKELIN TRIO (Tonight) Mr. Eskelin is a tenor saxophonist known for gruff abandon; his longtime band with the accordionist Andrea Parkins and the drummer Jim Black handles abstraction as well as groove. 8:30, Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, below Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242; cover, $15. (Chinen)

GREAT AMERICAN SONGWRITERS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Few musicians are better equipped to luxuriate in songbook standards than the pianist Bill Charlap; here he takes a look at the music of Vernon Duke (''April in Paris,'' ''Autumn in New York'') with the vocalist Ethel Ennis and the tenor saxophonist Houston Person. 7:30, Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, www.lincolncenter.org; $105.50 to $135.50. (Chinen)

* ICP ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) The acronym stands for Instant Composers Pool, which conveys both the immediacy and the structural integrity of this 10-piece ensemble's creations; the group also happens to contain Amsterdam's finest improvisers, like the pianist Misha Mengelberg, the drummer Han Bennink and the saxophonist and clarinetist Michael Moore. 8 and 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JASON KAO HWANG/EDGE (Tuesday) Mr. Hwang, a probing violinist and composer, marks the release of his new album on the Asian Improv label; as on the album, he enlists Taylor Ho Bynum on cornet, Ken Filiano on bass and Andrew Drury on drums. 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10.(Chinen)

CHRIS LIGHTCAP QUINTET (Tonight and Sunday night) A bassist with credentials in both straight-ahead and experimental circles, Mr. Lightcap fronts a group well suited to split the difference: Mark Turner and Tony Malaby on tenor saxophones, Craig Taborn on Fender Rhodes and Gerald Cleaver on drums. Tonight at 9 , Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, near Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. Sunday at 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934; no cover. (Chinen)

DOM MINASI TRIO +1 (Thursday) Minasi is an estimable guitarist in experimental circles; as on his jangly new album, ''Vampire's Revenge'' (CDM), he augments his working trio with special guests -- in this case, the gutsy trombonist Steve Swell. 8 p.m., Jimmy's Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

TED NASH AND ODEON (Tuesday) Mr. Nash is an expansively gifted saxophonist, equally at home finessing standards or chasing progressive forms of his own design. His Odeon band -- a flea-market assemblage of violin, accordion, woodwinds, brass and drums -- exposes the underlying affinities between many strains of low- and high-minded music. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

THE PARK AVENUE WHIRL (Tuesday through March 25) This exuberant swing-minded confab pairs Daryl Sherman, the irrepressible standards singer, with Vince Giordano and the Nighthawks, New York's most transporting little big band. 8:30 p.m., Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212) 339-4095; cover, $71, with a $40 minimum. (Chinen)

EDWARD SIMON TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) As a pianist and composer, Mr. Simon is both harmonically resourceful and rhythmically advanced, traits that should serve him well as he leads a trio with the bassist John Patitucci and the drummer Nasheet Waits. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25. (Chinen)

BOBO STENSON TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) With ''Goodbye'' (ECM), the Swedish pianist Bobo Stenson offered one of last year's most beautifully somber piano trio recordings. Here he plays the only live performances with the same personnel from the album: his fellow Swede and longtime bassist Anders Jormin, and the august and inscrutable New York drummer Paul Motian. 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MARCUS STRICKLAND'S TWI-LIFE (Wednesday) Mr. Strickland, a thoughtful young tenor saxophonist, leads an ensemble of fellow up-and-comers: Lage Lund on guitar, Matt Brewer on bass, and E. J. Strickland, his twin brother, on drums. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

TRIBUTE TO LUCKY THOMPSON (Wednesday through March 25) Thompson, who died last year at 81, was a bebop enigma, and his music has yet to be absorbed into jazz culture; next week the tenor and soprano saxophonist Chris Byars investigates that legacy in four ensembles, including a quartet (on Wednesday, with the former Thompson sideman John Hicks on piano) and a trio (on Thursday). 8 and 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $15. (Chinen)

MANUEL VALERA QUARTET (Thursday) On his new album, ''Melancolia'' (Mavo), the Cuban pianist Manuel Valera pursues a sophisticated strain of Latin jazz, occasionally tempered by classical romanticism; his message is in good hands with the tenor saxophonist Yosvany Terry, the bassist Hans Glawischnig and the drummer Ernesto Simpson. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $12 (members, $10).(Chinen)

ABBY WHITESIDE FOUNDATION JAZZ TRIBUTE (Tuesday) This recital, under the auspices of a venerable school of piano pedagogy, will feature the radiant solo playing of Barry Harris and Fred Hersch (two of the foundation's current teachers), as well as that of Gregg Kallor, Michael Kanan and Pete Malinverni. 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'AIDA' (Tonight through Sunday) The Amato Opera's reputation is that it conveys the spirit and love of Italian opera, though the full impact is impossible to achieve in a 102-seat theater with a cast that changes at every performance. And against the odds, the principals at a recent performance of ''Aida'' managed to make it through to the end, demonstrating a true love of the piece if not always of the pitch. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $30; $25 for 65+, students with ID, and children. (Anne Midgette)

'DARKLING' (Tonight and tomorrow night) In an adventurous move, America Opera Projects is presenting the premiere production of ''Darkling,'' a brave and sensitive, if at times frustrating, multimedia music theater work. With a score by the composer Stefan Weisman, ''Darkling'' is an ''operatic fantasia on themes of emotional fragmentation,'' in the words of the director, Michael Comlish, who conceived the idea of adapting for the stage the poet Anna Rabinowitz's book-length poem about a restless Polish couple who marry hastily before the invasion of the Nazis and who independently flee to the United States. 8, East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200; $30 to $45. (Anthony Tommasini)

* 'FIDELIO' (Monday) The director Jurgen Flimm's grippingly updated production of Beethoven's ''Fidelio'' was a deserved popular success when it was first presented in 2000. It returns with the radiant soprano Karita Mattila again singing the role of Leonora, and Richard Margison as Florestan. (Paul Nadler will replace the conductor James Levine, who has withdrawn from the rest of the Met's season because of a shoulder injury.) 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Tommasini)

'LA FORZA DEL DESTINO' (Tomorrow and Thursday) It's tempting to say that ''Forza'' has the most numbingly witless libretto and the dippiest score of any Verdi opera, but with such stiff competition, who can truly say? Giancarlo del Monaco's drab staging, first seen in 1996 and hidden away in storage since then, offers little help, but the Met has a vocally solid cast, with Deborah Voigt as Leonora, and Salvatore Licitra as Don Alvaro. Mark Rucker sings Don Carlo tomorrow, and Mark Delavan returns to the role on Wednesday. Gianandrea Noseda conducts. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $42 to $320 tomorrow; $26 to $320 on Wednesday. (Allan Kozinn)

'LUISA MILLER' (Tonight and Tuesday) Barbara Frittoli canceled, and Neil Shicoff was sick on opening night, so the Metropolitan Opera was left with the journeymen Veronica Villarroel and Eduardo Villa carrying Verdi's opera on their reliable if not very exciting shoulders. Mr. Shicoff is supposed to take over again when he recovers, joining Carlos Alvarez, who pumps out sound in a warm, unvaried baritone, and James Morris, who takes ''stentorian'' off the pitch chart altogether. (Karen Slack replaces Ms. Villarroel tonight.) 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Midgette)

'MAZEPPA' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Tchaikovsky's epic 1884 opera ''Mazeppa,'' about the ruthless 17th-century Ukrainian separatist Ivan Mazeppa, is an anguished, probing and noble work. The Metropolitan Opera deserves thanks for presenting its first production of this inexplicably neglected masterpiece, inspiringly conducted by Valery Gergiev. A cast of mostly Russian singers brings conviction and palpable authority to the work, especially the baritone Nikolai Putilin as the wizened Mazeppa, and the soprano Olga Guryakova as his adolescent and impressionable wife. The musical performance is so compelling that you can almost ignore Yuri Alexandrov's jumbled and trashy projection, which clutters the opera with symbolism. (On Wednesday night the soprano Elena Evseeva sings the role of Maria.) Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Tommasini)

'THE MOST HAPPY FELLA' (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Frank Loesser thought of his 1956 masterpiece ''The Most Happy Fella'' as a ''musical with a lot of music,'' not as an opera. Still, this musically sophisticated and disarming musical is a good fit for the New York City Opera, which has opened its spring season with a vibrant and charming production directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. The actor Paul Sorvino, making his City Opera debut, inhabits the title role of Tony Esposito, the paunchy and insecure but good-hearted Italian immigrant vineyard owner in the Napa Valley of the late 1920's. Mr. Sorvino's voice, though, is pretty raw and shaky. He's at his best when he doesn't care about how he sounds and just lets go. The rest of the cast, mostly from the musical theater world, is wonderful. Tonight at 8, tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 (final performance on March 25), New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570; $25 to $120. (Tommasini)

'OTELLO' (Thursday) Vincent La Selva is one of the best Verdi conductors around, but his arena these days is his own New York Grand Opera, playing free in Central Park or churches with variable (sometimes decent) singers, rather than standard opera houses. But it tends to be the tenor, not the conductor, that makes or breaks Verdi's ''Otello,'' and Edward Perretti may not be quite up to it. 7:30 p.m., Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew, corner of West End Avenue and West 86th Street, (212) 245-8837; free. (Midgette)

Classical Music

* AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (Tonight) Steven Sloane leads this new-music orchestra in a concert that explores the recent influence of pop technology -- including electronica, D.J.'s and turntablists, along with computer programming -- on classical composers. Included are premieres of works by Justin Messina, Edmund Campion, Neil Rolnick, Mason Bates and Daniel Bernard Roumain. 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $27 to $35. (Kozinn)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) A weekly presenter of chamber music concerts, this floating concert hall also offers great views of Lower Manhattan. Tonight, the versatile fiddler Mark O'Connor takes aboard his Edgeffect Ensemble (a piano trio) for a night of his own compositions. Tomorrow and Sunday, Mark Peskanov and colleagues play Mozart, Dohnanyi and Brahms. Thursday, Racha Arodaky, piano, performs Scarlatti, Schumann, Grieg and others. Tonight and tomorrow and Thursday nights at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35. (Jeremy Eichler)

BASICALLY BACH (Tuesday and Wednesday) This four-concert festival gets under way on Tuesday -- the 321st anniversary of Bach's birth -- with a concert of organ and brass works by Bach, Pezel and Gabrieli. Kent Tritle is the organ soloist. On Wednesday, the show moves to Carnegie Hall, where Richard Westenburg leads Musica Sacra and the Boys Choir of Harlem in the St. Matthew Passion. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, at 73rd Street, (212) 734-7688; $15 to $75. Wednesday at 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $20 to $120. (Kozinn)

'DUOS AND TRIOS' (Tonight and Sunday) The real title should be ''Unusual String Combos,'' exploring the permutations of violin, cello and bass. The program features Ida Kavafian and Gary Hoffman, along with Edgar Meyer, known for his abilities in bluegrass as well as in classical music, and himself composer of two of the works on a recital that also includes a Rossini duet for cello and bass, Kodaly's Op. 7 duet for violin and cello, and a transcription of Bach's BWV 1027 for all three instruments. Tonight at 8, Sunday at 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $28 to $49. (Midgette)

EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK (Tomorrow) This period-instrument band expands to orchestral proportions for ''Bach's Progeny,'' a program of late Baroque and Rococo works by J. S. Bach's sons, Wilhelm Friedemann, Carl Phillip Emmanuel, John Christian and Johann Friedrich. 8 p.m.., St. James's Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street, (212) 280-0330; $40. (Kozinn)

ESTONIAN PHILHARMONIC CHAMBER CHOIR (Sunday) Two of Estonia's best-known musical exports, Arvo Part and this choir, join in this weekend's concert. Mr. Part's music, accessible, meditative, bell-like, forms the centerpiece of a choral and organ concert that includes a New York premiere (''Anthem of St. John the Baptist''). It's juxtaposed with excerpts from Rachmaninoff's ''All-Night Vigil'' and a set of songs by an Estonian composer and ethnomusicologist of an older generation, with the euphonious name of Cyrillus Kreek. 4 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue, at 84th Street, (212) 721-6500; $48. (Midgette)

RICHARD GOODE (Sunday) What was to have been the sixth event in the pianist Richard Goode's Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall, originally scheduled for Jan. 14 but postponed because of the withdrawal of one of the participants, will take place on Sunday afternoon, bringing this engrossing series to a close. The mezzo-soprano Tamara Mumford will sing a selection of Schubert lieder with Mr. Goode at the piano, setting up his performance of Schubert's late Sonata in B flat. Then the tenor Matthew Polenzani joins the pianist for Janacek's haunting dramatic song cycle ''The Diary of One Who Disappeared.'' 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $44 to $52. (Tommasini)

ALEXEI GRYNYUK (Thursday) This young Ukrainian pianist returns to the Met Museum with a recital of works by Chopin and Rachmaninoff. 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $40. (Eichler)

MATT HAIMOVITZ (Sunday) This itinerant power-cellist has made headlines for bringing classical music into clubs like CBGB's. This weekend, he performs the first of three shows at the Knitting Factory, with guests D.J. Olive, a cello band called Uccello and Constantinople, a period-instrument ensemble that specializes in early music from Europe and the Middle East. The program draws from Mr. Haimovitz's new Bartok-themed album called ''Goulash'' 7:30 p.m., the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132; $20 to $25. (Eichler)

LONDON PHILHARMONIC (Sunday and Monday) The ailing Kurt Masur has dropped out of these programs. Neemi Jarvi is the replacement in New Jersey, and Roberto Minczuk conducts at Lincoln Center. Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722; $22 to $76. Monday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $35 to $69. (Holland)

MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Sunday) The distinguished series of concerts by players from the Metropolitan Opera concentrates on the Second Viennese School, with pieces by Berg, Webern and Schoenberg. 5 p.m., Weill Reicital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $92. (Bernard Holland)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today and tomorrow) Xian Zhang, the bright young assistant at the New York Philharmonic, conducts a morning concert of Rossini, Tchaikovsky and Paganini. Today at 11 a.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $23 to $76. (Holland)

ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S (Sunday) Ian Bostridge joins this fine orchestra and its music director, Donald Runnicles, for Lutoslawski's ''Paroles Tissees'' and arias from Handel's ''Ariodante.'' Mr. Runnicles also leads his players in Stravinsky's ''Dumbarton Oaks'' Concerto and Beethoven's Symphony No. 7. 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $21 to $74. (Kozinn)

PRISM QUARTET (Tonight) This fine veteran saxophone ensemble plays music by the much respected yet seldom heard Italian composer Salvatore Sciarrino. 8:30, Thalia Theater, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $21; students and 65+, $18. (Eichler)

* THOMAS QUASTHOFF (Tonight and tomorrow) The great German bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff performs Schubert's ''Schone Mullerin'' tomorrow night at Carnegie Hall with his frequent accompanist, the elegant pianist Justus Zeyen. Tonight a Young Artists Concert at Weill Hall presents four selected singers with their pianist partners, emerging musicians who were coached by Mr. Quasthoff this past week in two public master classes. In an indirect way, this concert should also provide insights into Mr. Quasthoff's probing artistry. Tonight at 7:30, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $15. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall; $23 to $79. (Tommasini)

PAULA ROBISON (Tomorrow) This series by the flutist Paula Robison looks at Vivaldi's concertos and has so far offered some rarely heard ones in graceful, shapely performances in the cavernous Temple of Dendur. 7 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $60. (Kozinn)

* CHARLES ROSEN (Sunday) Charles Rosen is as renowned for his insightful books and essays as for his probing performances. He is celebrating the 250th anniversary of Mozart's birth by looking at composers who influenced him and composers who felt his influence. The current installment looks at Beethoven's fascination with Mozart by way of his Piano Sonata No. 32 (Op. 111) and his Variations on ''Bei Mannern, Welche Liebe Fuhlen'' from ''The Magic Flute,'' for which Fred Sherry joins him on the cello. Also, Mozart's Fantasia (K. 475) and Sonata in C minor (K. 457). 1:30 p.m. (a lecture) and 3 p.m. (the recital), 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $35. (Kozinn)

TOKYO STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) The Tokyo continues its close ties to the 92d Street Y and its celebration of the Mozart year with two string quartets and the E flat Piano Quartet with Alexander Lonquich. 8 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $40. (Holland)

* WALL TO WALL STRAVINSKY (Tomorrow) What better way to celebrate a prodigious musical life than with acornucopia of music? This year's installment of Symphony Space's ''Wall to Wall'' series of free 12-hour marathons focusing on one composer spotlights Igor Stravinsky, who aroused reactions from shock to adoration in his lifetime. His work ranges from the very early (like the 1904 song ''The Mushrooms Go to War'') to the greatest hits (like ''Symphonies of Wind Instruments''). Participating artists include the pianist Jeremy Denk, the singers Lucy Shelton and Marni Nixon, the Ying Quartet and, yes, Richard Thomas and Leonard Nimoy playing, in ''Story of a Soldier,'' the Soldier and the Devil. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-1414, ext. 286; free. (A limited number of reserved seats will be available for donors of $125 or more.) (Midgette)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

LES BALLETS AFRICAINS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Also known as the National Ensemble of the Republic of Guinea, the company will celebrate its half-century of existence with ''Jubilee,'' a selection of its golden oldies in music and dance. 8, Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 545-7536 or worldmusicinstitute.org; $35 and $45; students, $15. (Jennifer Dunning)

JANE COMFORT AND COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Comfort's new ''Fleeting Thoughts: Mr. Henderson's 3 a.m.'' is set to vocal music by Joan La Barbara. The work explores extremes of timing, spatial relationships and language. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Dunning)

COMPLEXIONS (Tonight through Sunday and Thursday) This exuberant modern-dance company will perform a program that includes a tribute to Nina Simone and a piece set to music by Earth, Wind and Fire. (Through March 26.) Tonight and Thursday night at 7; tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 563-2266, www.newvictory.org; $10 to $30. (Dunning)

* SALLY GROSS AND COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Gross calls her program ''Seeing Winter Out,'' and the poetic title says a lot about this most eloquent minimalist. Among the new works is ''With Words #2,'' a solo Ms. Gross dances to a rehearsal tape by Joseph Chaikin. 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $15. (Dunning)

KINETIC ARCHITECTURE (Tonight through Sunday) Shannon and Rob Davidson describe their new ''Grios,'' an investigation of Celtic culture and mythology, as a cross between Buster Keaton and Butoh. 8 p.m., Center for Remembering and Sharing, 123 Fourth Avenue, near 12th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, www.theatermania.com; $12; students and 65+, $10. (Dunning)

* SUSAN MARSHALL AND COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Marshall celebrates her company's 20th anniversary with ''Cloudless,'' an impressive new piece that addresses human relationships and the surreal edge of everyday life with psychological, theatrical and visual complexity. 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25. (Dunning)

* YVONNE MEIER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Meier is returning after eight years to her enjoyably anarchic improvisational choreography. For her new pieces ''this is not a pink pony'' and ''Gogolorez,'' she has enlisted the aid of downtown-dance stars like Miguel Gutierrez, Jennifer Monson, Nami Yamamoto and Jeremy Wade. 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, www.thekitchen.org; $12. (Dunning)

BENJAMIN MILLEPIED (Tonight through Sunday) One of the smartest and liveliest of New York City Ballet dancers, Mr. Millepied will lead his company, whose roster includes several bright young City Ballet performers and the American Ballet Theater star Gillian Murphy, in a new work of his own, set to a score by Philip Glass, played by Pedja Muzijevic, as well as in new works by the choreographers Aszure Barton, Andonis Foniadakis and Luca Veggetti. The last piece has an accompaniment cued by dancers' motions. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, www.joyce.org; $42. (Dunning)

TERE O'CONNOR DANCE (Wednesday and Thursday) Audiences and reviewers tend to feel passionately about Mr. O'Connor's choreography, loving or hating it with equal intensity. Somehow Mr. O'Connor has lived through it all and continued to produce dances. This one is called ''Baby,'' which he describes as exploding the metaphor of time passing. You decide. (Through April 1.) 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25. (Dunning)

SUMMERFEST '06: CHRISTINE JOWERS/MOVING ARTS PROJECTS (Wednesday) Ms. Jowers will present her ''Isadora and the Dancing Goddesses of NYC'' in a free performance by the Projects, which she describes as a ''sisterhood'' that includes such dance luminaries as Ann Carlson and Margie Gillis. 12:30 and 8 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505. (Dunning)

* PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) The company's annual City Center season concludes with four final repertory programs. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, www.nycitycenter.org; $15 to $80. (John Rockwell)

* TCHAIKOVSKY PERM BALLET AND ORCHESTRA (Tonight) These exquisite dancers from the Perm Ballet, which has a direct lineage to the Maryinsky, know how to tell a vivid story in the purest classical dance. Here they are in a traditional staging of ''Swan Lake'' by Natalia Makarova that includes Sir Frederick Ashton's haunting fourth act. 7:30, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, www.njpac.org; $20 to $56. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' through March 26. The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hard wired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 14. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. Her works do not lend themselves to easy deciphering, but her magic with materials and her daring compositional imagination draw you in. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

* Brooklyn Museum: WILLIAM WEGMAN: 'FUNNEY/STRANGE,' through May 28. Descended from Marcel Duchamp and Buster Keaton, Mr. Wegman has straddled high and low for more than three decades, using his signature Weimaraners to make the art world's funniest videos, as well as television commercials, calendars and children's books. His popular success has tended to obscure his originality and influence, along with a multifarious production that includes wittily captioned drawings, wonderfully irreverent paintings and a host of nondog photographic work. This thorough and thoroughly entertaining retrospective highlights not only the accessibility of his richly human art, but also its dedication to the 1970's notion that art should not look like art. (See above.) (Smith)

* Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh, color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400. (Smith)

* Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: 'David Smith: A Centennial,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Art of Medicine in Ancient Egypt,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average life span was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever-present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness were shots in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 or so objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: Robert Rauschenberg: 'Combines,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. It also includes a large selection of prints -- many ingeniously adapted from his oils -- that played an important role in his art. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.) (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

NEUE GALERIE: 'KLEE AND AMERICA,' through May 22. For a long time, the Swiss-born artist Paul Klee (1879-1940), regarded as a leading Modernist figure in Europe, didn't believe his delicate, chimerical work had much of a future in the United States. Yet, thanks to artists, collectors and dealers with close contacts in Germany who had begun to discover his work, by the early 1920's Klee's impact began to be felt in the United States. This show of more than 60 paintings and drawings assembled exclusively from American holdings covers the wide spectrum of Klee's work, from his dense, Cubist-style oil, ''When God Considered the Creation of the Plants'' (1913), to a beautifully stylized rendering of the jazz singer and dancer Josephine Baker (1927) to labyrinthine compositions like ''Or the Mocked Mocker'' (1930). 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200. (Glueck)

P.S. 1: Jessica Stockholder: 'Of Standing Float Roots in Thin Air,' through May 1. A soaring, cannily designed installation -- made of airborne plastic bins, electric lights, orange extension cords and an old armchair topping a wooden tower -- by a sculptor known for orchestrating productive collisions of formalism and consumerism. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Ken Johnson)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2006: DAY FOR NIGHT,' through May 28. This biennial will provoke much head-scratching by uninitiated visitors. A hermetic take on what has been making waves, it's packaged -- branded might be the better word -- as a show long on collaboration and open-endedness: several shows under one roof, including a revival of the 1960's ''Peace Tower,'' which rises like a Tinker Toy construction from the Whitney courtyard, with contributions by dozens of artists. As a counter to the image of the art world as rich, youth-besotted and obsessed with crafty little nothings, the ethos here is provisional, messy, half-baked, cantankerous, insular -- radical qualities art used to have when it could still call itself radical and wasn't like a barnacle clinging to the cruise ship of pop culture. That was back in the 1970's. And much of what's here (including works by bohemians and other senior eccentrics around then) harks back to that moment. Beauty is hard to come by. Check out, among other things, Paul Chan's digital animation of shadowy objects like cellphones and bicycles, floating upward, Wizard of Oz-like, while bodies tumble down, the work cast as if it were light from a tall window slanting onto the floor of a dark room. And also Pierre Huyghe's film, shot in Antarctica and Central Park. It's really gorgeous: crosscut between day and night, fiction and reality, it encapsulates the show's operative but ultimately airy metaphor about the slippery state of art now. (''Day for Night'' is the biennial's first-ever title, after the Francois Truffaut film.) 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (800) 944-8639 or www.whitney.org. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

Tony Cragg: 'Five Bottles' In the early 1980's, this eminent English sculptor made flat, mosaiclike works out of found colored plastic objects and fragments. This show presents a set of five wall-works, each representing a different giant colored bottle composed of toys, combs, cigarette lighters and other pieces of ordinary commercial detritus. Vivian Horan, 35 East 67th Street, (212) 517-9410, through April 21. (Johnson)

Jim Shaw: 'My Mirage 1986- 91' This amazingly inventive California-based artist first became widely known for a series of about 170 works, all measuring 17 by 14 inches, that chronicles the life of a white suburban boy named Billy, from innocent youth to druggy degradation to born-again salvation. The 30 pieces from the series in this show variously imitate comic strips, acid-rock posters, thrift store paintings, comic greeting cards and many other pop culture forms. Skarstedt, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 737-2060, through April 1. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

Darren Almond /Janice Kerbel: 'The Impossible Landscape' Nothing is obvious in this handsome show of works by two London-based Conceptualists. The connection is that both make visible things that are in different ways impossible. Ms. Kerbel's elegantly abstracted designs for gardens in an office, a Laundromat and other unlikely places are meant to be imagined but never actually built. Mr. Almond's sumptuous, subtly eerie landscape photographs were shot at night using long exposures, making visible what would be invisible to the naked eye. The Horticultural Society of New York, 128 West 58th Street, (212) 757-0915, through May 5. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

Tjorg Douglas Beer: 'Hirnwaschanlage BrainWashing Plant' Something resembling a large-scale, Cubist puppet theater that looks as if it were designed and built by elementary school students is the main attraction of this German artist's first United States solo exhibition. Populated by robotic figures of cardboard and aluminum foil, with glowing light bulbs for eyes, which wield medieval weapons, it is supposed to be based on the Donkey Kong video game and to represent the interior of a brain under the influence of social brainwashing. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, through March 25. (Johnson)

Jeff Chien-Hsing Liao: 'Habitat 7' The winner of the second annual ''Capture the Times'' photography contest of The New York Times Magazine presents a series of vividly clear and colorful, wide-angle pictures of outdoor scenes shot along the No. 7 subway line, which runs through Queens. Julie Saul, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-2410, through March 25. (Johnson)

* MARK LECKY: 'DRUNKEN BAKERS' This cinematically gifted British artist raises his game with a stop-action animation made by simply shooting a raunchy, well-drawn comic strip for adults in close-up, turning its speech balloons into spoken dialogue and adding realistic sound effects. Shown in an increasingly grubby white-on-white cube, the work is elegantly efficient, funny and dark, and adds another twist to the convoluted history of appropriation art. GBE@Passerby, 436 West 15th Street, (212) 627-5258, through April 22. (Smith)

* William Nicholson Though less well known than his son, the British abstract painter Ben Nicholson, Sir William Nicholson was a successful artist in his day. The mostly small landscapes, portraits and Chardinesque still lifes in this beautiful show offer transporting fusions of paint and imagery. Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, through March 25. (Johnson)

Barbara Probst Ms. Probst displays pairs and groups of photographs made using electronically connected cameras able to shoot scenes from different angles at exactly the same time. Seeing a family crossing the street in black and white from the top of a building and close-up in color from street level creates a philosophically intriguing collapse of the normal space-time continuum. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 463-7372, through March 25. (Johnson)

Rachel Whiteread: 'Bibliography' Cardboard boxes cast in plaster are displayed in monotonous profusion singly and in groups by the British sculptor who once made a concrete cast of the inside of a whole house. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9100, through April 1. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed; punk and new wave rock assailed the ears; graffiti spread like kudzu; and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her deathbed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* Anya Gallaccio: 'One Art' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

THE STUDIO VISIT The studio visit, a time-honored ritual that everyone in the art world has both endured and learned from, is taken to its limit in Exit Art's latest exhibition marathon. Each of the 160 mostly short videos represents one artist's idea of, play on, or substitute for, a studio visit. It is a show that often cries out for a fast-forward button, but there are some notable gems -- for example, by Joyce Pensato, Cynthia von Buhler, Ida Applebroog, Bruce Pearson, Lance Wakeling, Taylor McKimens, Paul Wirhun, Elisabeth Kley, Christy Gast and Kim Jones. Exit Art, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 966-7745, through March 25. (Smith)

Last Chance

* 'Do You Think I'm Disco' There's a big story to be told about disco culture of the 1970's, which had roots in rhythm and blues, African-American church music, 1960's drug culture, gay liberation and all manner of anti-establishment politics. This modest group show touches on all of these elements, however glancingly and unsystematically, by considering the trickle-down effect of discomania on some new art today. Longwood Art Gallery@Hostos, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-6728; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

* 'EXQUISITE CORPSE-CADAVRE EXQUIS' The Surrealist drawing game provided this show's organizers -- the gallery's owner and the independent curator Robert Nickas -- with their call-and-response selection process, as well as their theme. The three dozen small works tend to focus on the body, mostly beautiful and often sexual, which only increases the fascination of the almost always illuminating aesthetic couplings they have devised. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-6242; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

Birdie Lusch: 'Collages' The self-taught Lusch (1903-1988) worked in a ball-bearing factory in Columbus, Ohio, and began making art as a teenager. This show presents 24 delightful pages from a 1983 album of collages representing flowers in vases. KS Art, 73 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-9918; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

P.S. 1: 'Ricky Swallow,' Extraordinarily realistic and symbolically portentous sculptures carved from wood by Australia's representative to last summer's Venice Biennale, in which three of the five works on view here were included. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084; closes Monday. (Johnson)

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a classical music listing in Weekend yesterday misidentified the boys' choir that is to perform at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday in the Basically Bach Festival. It is the Boys Choir of St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue; the Boys Choir of Harlem was originally scheduled but withdrew.
Because of an editing error, a classical music listing in Weekend yesterday misidentified the boys' choir that is to perform at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday in the Basically Bach Festival. It is the Boys Choir of St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue; the Boys Choir of Harlem was originally scheduled but withdrew.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THEATER -- Jonathan Pryce takes over as a silken swindler in ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.'' His eloquent eyebrows make this the season's most improved musical, below. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
JAZZ -- Patricia Barber brings an uncommon lyricism and intellectualism to her music. Watch to see if she still kicks off her shoes and plays barefoot, at Zankel Hall, Page 24. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)
 ART -- Paul Klee's ''Yellow House,'' a watercolor on paper and cardboard, is part of an exhibition of 60 paintings and drawings at Neue Galerie, Page 25. (Photo by Private collection/Neue Galerie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FAMILY (73%); WRITERS (68%); CATARACTS (66%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



340 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: Teeing Off in Indian Country 

BYLINE: By BRUCE SELCRAIG

 BODY:
IN the late 60's, Wendell Chino, the innovative and autocratic president of the Mescalero Apache Nation in southeastern New Mexico, surveyed some fallow fields of oats on his poor, mountainous reservation and declared the land ideal for one of his entrepreneurial brainstorms.
 Mr. Chino, who died in 1998, championed economic development projects like sawmills, ski runs and legalized gambling. But before roulette wheels ever arrived, when the poorest Mescaleros still lived in canvas tents and tepees, he stunned his tribe by proposing a 250-room hotel and championship golf course, the first destination golf resort in New Mexico.
''It was completely beyond the minds of any of us here,'' said Freddie Peso, 67, a Mescalero sculptor and longtime tribal council member. ''I knew nothing about golf or resorts. No one here played golf. And neither did Wendell Chino.''
 In 1975, Mr. Chino's dream was realized as the humble, all-wood Inn of the Mountain Gods, and its 7,000-foot-elevation golf course became what is believed to be the first tribal-owned course in the nation. It was an immediate hit, and it pioneered a once-unthinkable cultural curiosity: thousands of upscale duffers finding golf nirvana in remote Indian country. 
 Today, there are more than 50 tribal-owned courses in some 17 states, with several more under construction. From the San Carlos Apache tribe's Apache Stronghold Golf Club in the Sonoran Desert of Arizona to the Mohicans' Pine Hills Golf and Supper Club in the Wisconsin woods, tribal courses have changed Indian country's physical and cultural landscape, helped diversify the tribes' casino-dependent economies and given American golf some of its finest new playgrounds. 
 In nearly every case, the courses sit near the tribes' casinos, whose profits have allowed some American Indian nations to pay in cash for their golf ventures, which run about $5 million to $9 million. 
 ''Gaming has done a lot for us,'' said Ernie Stevens Jr., chairman of the National Indian Gaming Association, whose 354 tribal casinos generated around $19 billion in 2004. ''But in order to survive, we can't just focus on one kind of economic development. We want Indian country to be a recreation destination, and golf is very much a part of that.'' 
 But many of the tribal courses are so good that they are hardly seen as mere casino amenities. Twin Warriors Golf Club, on the Santa Ana Pueblo north of Albuquerque, is ranked 49th on Golf Digest's 2006 list of the best 100 publicly accessible courses in America. Thirty miles north, near Espanola, N.M., the Santa Clara Pueblo's Black Mesa Golf Club was named the 62nd best modern (post-1960) design by Golfweek, which also gave the 93rd spot to the Barona Band of Mission Indians' Barona Creek Golf Club near San Diego.
 ''I think the tribal courses are probably the single most impressive force in golf architecture over the last 10 years,'' said Ron Whitten, Golf Digest's architecture critic. ''I've been impressed with every one.''
 What makes the courses so appealing is that unlike the majority of fancy courses built in the last 20 years, the tribal courses aren't driven by real estate sales and so aren't surrounded by fairway McMansions. These pure golf sites are so coveted that the tribes have attracted many celebrated course designers, including Ben Crenshaw, Tom Fazio, Pete Dye and Scott Miller. 
 ''Without real estate developments you have the freedom to route the course where it should go,'' said Mr. Miller, an Arizona-based designer whose 75 golf courses include tribal tracts near Scottsdale, Ariz; Albuquerque; and Sacramento, Calif. ''Most architects spend their whole careers hoping to find sites like these,'' Mr. Miller said.
 Nowhere in America has tribal golf had more impact than in New Mexico, which has the equivalent of nine 18-hole courses on six reservations. By any impartial golf standard, they are uniformly challenging and well-maintained and have a restorative solitude. All but one are found roughly between Albuquerque and Santa Fe, at 5,000 to 7,000 feet, built along mountain foothills or near the banks of the Rio Grande in the fragrant pinon-and-juniper high desert, which still surprises some tourists who come expecting arid desolation.
 The Isleta Eagle Golf Club, just south of the Albuquerque airport, and the Santa Ana Golf Club, about 14 miles north of Albuquerque, are both 27-hole complexes that feature nearly treeless links-style nines built around ponds and big mounds. Farther north, at Twin Warriors, Sandia, Cochiti, Towa and Black Mesa, the courses have more elevation and often wind through stark mesas and cactus-lined arroyos. 
 They look and feel like most name-designer golf sites, but with less pretense and more respect for nature and wildlife. You won't find mango-scented towels and valet parking, and with greens fees usually between $30 and $60 -- a third of those at comparable courses in Scottsdale -- you'll have cash left to sample the culinary pride of every clubhouse cafe in New Mexico: incendiary, dachshund-size, green-chile burritos. (Remember, milk soothes tongue burn, not beer.)
 The Rio Grande pueblo communities, which trace their ancestry to the 12th-century Anasazi, have largely maintained their religious festivals, exquisite pottery and basket traditions and their native languages of Tewa, Tiwa, Towa and Keres. Yet many members live in two divergent worlds, driving freeways to jobs at the University of New Mexico or perhaps the United States Department of Energy's Los Alamos National Laboratory, and returning home to rural communities of modest adobes and gravel roads. 
 ON a chilly November morning, I drove north to tiny Bernalillo (where the beloved Range Cafe serves a triethnic crowd of ranchers, gamblers and the hiply ironic) and past the state's ubiquitous Blake's Lotaburgers to the new tin-roofed tribal offices of the Santa Ana Pueblo. Across the street, gnarly giant cottonwoods on the forested banks of the Rio Grande shaded a stout rancher in a rusting pickup who loaded up the last of some newly cut green alfalfa. 
 No one would dare call this a golf course community, but just beyond the cottonwoods is the Hyatt Tamaya Resort's five-year-old Twin Warriors course. Out here, furtive roadrunners dart under the spindly ocotillo cactus, and coyotes really do moan at night. Just steps from the tee box of one hole is an ancient pueblo cave dwelling dating from the 1100's. Nicely out of view from most of the course is the 350-room resort, an elegant rust-colored adobe that features spa treatments and haute cuisine as well as more family-oriented features like hot air balloons and corkscrew pool slides.
 All the resort trappings still provoke some wonder in Santa Ana elders like Myron Armijo, a former pueblo governor who now works as the pueblo liaison for the state engineer's office. ''My family used to run white-face Herefords by the Rio Grande, just off Santa Ana's 17th hole,'' Mr. Armijo said at the Range Cafe. ''Our home had no foundation. It was mud and rock. We finally got running water when I was in high school.''
 Like most pueblo members I spoke to, Mr. Armijo saw no conflict between golf, gambling and the native way. ''I'm ecstatic about the changes in the pueblo that have come from gaming revenue,'' he said. ''We have senior citizens centers, water treatment plants, better infrastructure. And it brought golf, which I'm addicted to.'' 
 Naturally, tribal golf, like all golf in parched and politically charged New Mexico, has its detractors. Environmentalists ask why Indian tribes would embrace a water-guzzling enterprise in a drought-prone region that annually averages about nine inches of rain. Courses hereoften use as much as a million gallons of water a day in the hottest summer months. 
 ''To see golf on the high desert is such a painful irony for people who look to Indians for guidance on how to live in harmony with the environment,'' said John Horning, executive director of Forest Guardians, a Santa Fe-based group. Yet Mr. Horning conceded that golf is often just the more visible villain. ''It's emerald green in an arid brown landscape,'' he said. ''By far the largest user of water in New Mexico -- about 85 percent -- is agriculture, especially alfalfa. But you don't see alfalfa farmers being crucified.''
 Another critic, Steve Harris, director of Rio Grande Restoration, in Pilar, N.M., said: ''The whole water situation in New Mexico and the West is rife with hypocrisy. The pueblos were here first, and if golf helps them get out of the third world, it's justified.''
 Few Indian communities have risen more quickly from their historical rural poverty than the Sandia Pueblo, new owners of a 70,000-square-foot casino, 12,000-square-foot spa, 228-room hotel and a Scott Miller-designed golf course -- all within walking distance of the Albuquerque city limits. As he walked past the casino concert posters for Kenny Rogers and Kool & the Gang, Stuart Paisano, the 34-year-old former Sandia governor, could hardly speak about his popular new golf course without testifying to how gambling profits had benefited his 481 members. 
 ''Every high school student on my pueblo is guaranteed a four-year, fully paid scholarship to any college of their choice: Harvard, Yale, wherever,'' said Mr. Paisano, a former police officer. ''Every family has a laptop computer. They have medical and dental insurance. And we have a golf course that did 17,000 rounds in its first four months. That's amazing.''
 (The Albuquerque golf market may be saturated. A tribal golf course official who asked for anonymity because he is not authorized to speak about tribal business said he thought that only two of the state's tribal courses might have made money in 2005.)
 At perhaps the most unlikely tribal golf spot, the Robert Trent Jones Jr.-designed Pueblo de Cochiti Golf Course, 45 miles north of Albuquerque, one might expect that profits are an obsession because the pueblo has no casino or industry and the golf course actually finances much of the tribal administration. But in this rural village beneath the Jemez Mountains, where you now can see golf clubs resting in front yards beside baseball bats, the value of golf is being measured differently. 
 ''Golf has become part of the society here,'' said Steve Schoch, a nonnative director of golf who once ran a course in Queretaro, Mexico. ''Parents now ask me to get their kids involved in the game. They see it as a healthy alternative to things like video games.'' 
 The youth golf program is so active at Cochiti that the course has twice played host to the National Native American Junior Championship, and the nearest high school golf team, at Bernalillo High, is dominated by Cochiti children.
 What Mr. Schoch and some pueblo elders observed is that golf, at this humble level, has actually helped nurture a more traditional life by encouraging children to walk in nature for their four-hour rounds, to be honest with themselves and with others and to practice self-discipline. 
 ''The Cochiti are a very traditional people,'' Mr. Schoch said. ''You have your pumpkin and turquoise clans, the clown dancing. We have to be very sensitive to not schedule events when there is a 'doing' at the pueblo, a dance or a feast. One death on the pueblo and you'll lose half your staff to the funeral. Golf is kept in perspective here, the way it should be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CARRYING THE LOAD -- The Pueblo de Cochiti Golf Course, a tribal club north of Albuquerque, was designed by Robert Trent Jones Jr. (Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
GETTING IN A ROUND -- Some tribal courses are so good they are hardly seen as mere casino amenities. Twin Warriors, on the Santa Ana Pueblo, is 49th on Golf Digest's 2006 list of the best 100 publicly accessible courses.
 IN TUNE WITH NATURE -- New tribal courses, like the Sandia Golf Club, look and feel like most name-designer golf courses, but with less pretense and more respect for nature and wildlife. (Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. F7)Map of New Mexico highlighting golf clubs in the Albuquerque area. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); CASINOS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); GAMING (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); RESORTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SKIING (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SAW MILLS (71%) Golf; Indians, American; Mescalero Apache Indians; Hotels and Motels

ORGANIZATION: Inn of the Mountain Gods (Ruidosa, Nm)

PERSON: Wendell Chino; Bruce Selcraig

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (93%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



341 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Palmetto, Fla.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: How a Backwater Becomes a Destination 

BYLINE: By PAUL SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
WHAT'S remarkable about the formerly snoozy little farm town of Palmetto is not that it has apparently been discovered by speculative second-homers and maturing boomers looking for that magical Floridian cocktail of benign winters, beautiful waters and plentiful small holes in which to sink even smaller balls. 
 The surprise is that on the central Gulf Coast of Florida, where ''It's not a bubble, it's not a bubble'' has become a mantra, Palmetto escaped this kind of attention as long as it did.
While not far to the south, major McNeighborhoods were being constructed farther inland than was once thought habitable by homo sapiens (even east of I-75!), Palmetto lay there at the mouth of the Manatee River with miles of river and Tampa Bay views, not to mention one of the best protected natural harbors in the state. 
 ''It all really got going about five years ago,'' said John Stephens, whose family has been in the area for seven generations and who now makes his living helping local farmers sell their citrus groves to developers. ''That's when investors from up New York way began to look at this area and ask, 'Can you really buy land up there for under $20,000 an acre?' And we said, 'Uhh, yup.' ''
 Many of the orange growers were pushed into the change by an infestation of citrus canker, but not all. ''Generally speaking,'' Mr. Stephens said, ''if they get the chance to sell for $40,000 an acre what they might have bought for $1,500 an acre, they'll do it.'' Or more likely, judging from the number of construction cranes visible from either of the bridges across the Manatee River, they have already done it. 
 The initial investment money to buy up large tracts may have come from New York and other financial capitals, but the people who are buying houses in gated communities and luxury condominiums -- many of them still under construction -- have come from all over: the Midwest, the Northeast, even just down the coast in Florida. 
 ''It's like a first baby step toward retirement,'' said Lynn Parker, a fiftyish realtor from nearby Bradenton, Fla. Ms. Parker and her husband are selling their home in Cortez, Fla., and buying a 2,400-square-foot condominium on Terra Ceia Bay in Palmetto for $650,000. ''It's a good price, it's a nice size unit, the water views -- it's just a great little community that we were attracted to.''
 Getting in early seems to be the thing to do. Frank Saia, a former Bostonian who recently bought a 2,800-square-foot house in Palmetto with his partner, echoed the common refrain these days when he said, ''We found a subdivision on the water that was in the beginning stage and decided, well, we can make a move.''

The Scene
 Er, well, can we get back to you on that? At the foot of the bridge to Bradenton, a spa called Evolve and a restaurant called the Smoking Martini are trying to attract the new crowd in town. But Palmetto's nationally registered ''historic district,'' which comprises a couple of blocks of virtuous-looking early 20th century commercial buildings and a Carnegie library, remains something of an opportunity zone. It's not run-down. As Ms. Parker said, ''It's a beautiful street waiting for a redevelopment plan.''
 For now though, most of the social activity is on the golf course at Terra Ceia, or on your boat out in the bay. 
 ''There's not much going on downtown yet, but at least Palmetto has a downtown area that they can transform,'' Mr. Saia said. ''As far as Florida is concerned, that's more than you usually expect. Most of these places have absolutely nothing to work with. At least you can go down there and take a walk.''

The Pros
 Other than the magnificent water views, protected boat moorings and the locally renowned Palmetto Meat Shop, Palmetto's primary advantage is price, compared with prices in surrounding cities and towns. Even though a house on the Manatee River in Palmetto will cost at least $1 million, which isn't exactly cheap, directly across the water in Bradenton (where lots and houses are generally bigger) you can't hope to get a place on the river for less than twice that.
 Like Bradenton, Palmetto has the advantage of proximity to Tampa, St. Petersburg and Sarasota, all of which have airports and cultural attractions of the first order. Not to mention baseball spring training. 

The Cons
 ''It's not Sarasota,'' said Sam Asfur, describing, as succinctly as possible, the issue of Palmetto's traditional low-rung position in the regional status hierarchy. ''It's not Longboat Key.'' Yet if Mr. Asfur's investment instincts are any guide, this negative is about to disappear. The company he works for, which is based in Michigan, is constructing three enormous towers of full-service luxury condominiums in Palmetto, called Bel Mare at Riviera Dunes, which will have sweeping views of both the river and the bay and range in price from $580,000 to nearly $2 million.
 ''That stuff only matters if you're from around here to start with,'' he said, a huge tableau of construction behind him -- not only the emerging towers of Bel Mare, but also a rival developer's equally large project. ''If you're coming from Wisconsin, say, you just look at the view and you look at the price, and what do you care what they think in Sarasota? You can drive to Sarasota in 15 minutes if you need to go there.'' 
 A more tangible negative is that, for the time being at least, residents of Palmetto may find themselves driving to Sarasota -- or Tampa, St. Petersburg or even Bradenton -- fairly regularly. While the Bel Mare development plan includes an extensive retail and restaurant component along the waterfront and there are one or two new restaurants, for the most part the town's commercial amenities have not kept pace with residential construction.
 Finally, though Palmetto is surrounded on three sides by water, those waters are largely of the sort that provide good views and fine boating, but not swimming. The nearest true Gulf shore beaches are over the river and through the sprawl to Anna Maria Island. Unless, of course, you have a boat or take the planned boat taxi. 

The Real Estate Market
 There's something for everyone. You can get a 396-square-foot mobile home with a bay view on one fifth of an acre for $39,000, or a 4,500-square-foot, four-bedroom Mediterranean minimansion on the river in a guarded community for $3,549,900. On any given day, there might be nearly 400 properties in the multiple listing service database.
 And many of the best places -- houses over the bridge and down dirt driveways on Snead Island, or sweet little Craftsman bungalows in the historic district -- are never listed beyond the word-of-mouth network. 

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- About 13,000 and growing.

SIZE -- Seven square miles.

WHO'S BUYING -- Baby boomers from the North; speculative buyers from farther south in Florida.

GETTING THERE -- Palmetto is around a half hour's drive from Tampa, St. Petersburg-Clearwater and Sarasota/Bradenton International Airports.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- There are no hotels in Palmetto, but most big midrange and economy chains have hotels and motor lodges across the river in Bradenton. At the Bradenton Econo Lodge (607 67th Street Circle East, Bradenton; 941-745-1988; on the Web at bradentoneconolodge.com), which is advertised as ''next to Cracker Barrel and McDonald's,'' a room might cost you under $50. At the Club Bamboo Resorts (2502 Gulf Drive North, Bradenton Beach; 941-778-6671; www.clubbambooresorts.com), formerly the Econo Lodge Surfside, you'll pay as much as $264.

THREE FOR SALE

Sun, a Lazy River and a Downtown Awaiting Redevelopment

WHAT -- 2-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $339,900

This 1,919-square-foot house, built in 1959, is a little bit of classic midcentury (pre-cookie cutter) Palmetto. It's surrounded by mature trees and located on a small creek that gives kayak access from the porch to the Manatee River. Realtor: Sandra D. Drapala, Michael Saunders & Company, 888-552-5228; www.michaelsaunders.com.

WHAT -- 2-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $575,000

Located in the gated Terra Ceia Golf & Country Club, this 1,819-square-foot condominium has a den, a lanai, views of Terra Ceia and Tampa Bays, two and a half bathrooms and covered parking for one car. The building, which is still under construction, will have 36 units and a pool. Agent: Lynn Parker, Rose Bay Realty, 941-751-0582; www.rosebay.com.

WHAT -- 4-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $1,953,000

There are several of these 4,403-square-foot penthouses on the 15th floors of the three Bel Mare condominium towers now under construction in Palmetto. The first tower is expected to be completed late this year. The complex is adjacent to a 225-slip deep-water public marina. Broker: Samuel J. Asfur, Bel Mare at Riviera Dunes, 941-721-6056; www.belmareliving.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BELATED BOOM -- As the area around Palmetto, Fla., develops, demand is rising for older homes like this one on the Manatee River. (Photo by William S. Speer for The New York Times)Map of Florida highlighting the Palmetto area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (87%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (87%); CITRUS GROVES (78%); ORANGE GROVES (78%); RIVERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); CROP DISEASE (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (61%) Geographic Profiles; Housing; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Paul Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (97%) Palmetto (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



342 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Prices Rose Only 0.1% Last Month

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Inflation slowed sharply last month, the Labor Department reported yesterday, providing comfort to many investors that the Federal Reserve might be moving closer to ending its campaign of raising interest rates.
 In another report also suggesting that interest rates might not need to go much higher, the Commerce Department said construction of new homes slowed sharply in February from the frenetic pace set in January. The number of homes under construction continued to rise, though, reaching a 32-year high.
The Consumer Price Index rose 0.1 percent in February after jumping 0.7 percent in January and falling 0.1 percent in December, the Labor Department said, as energy prices retreated after a spike at the start of the year. 
 Excluding food and energy, the so-called core rate of inflation was also up 0.1 percent, as the price of clothes fell 1 percent and the cost of medical care increased 0.5 percent. 
 For the last year, retail prices are up 3.6 percent, down from 4 percent in January, and the core rate is up 2.1 percent, unchanged from the month before.
 The report buoyed the bond market and helped push up blue-chip equities for the third consecutive day. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose modestly, though the Nasdaq composite index fell. [Page C6.] 
 The Fed's rate-setting committee is scheduled to meet on March 27 and 28, and is widely expected to raise its benchmark short-term rate by another quarter-point, to 4.75 percent. Many on Wall Street are now betting that the new Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his colleagues may stop after that or engineer only one more rate increase, to 5 percent, before taking a rest. 
 ''There is certainly nothing from the core inflation numbers to egg the Fed on to keep tightening,'' James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS, said.
 Investors bid up the price of United States Treasury securities yesterday in response. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 4.64 percent from 4.73 percent late Wednesday.
 Energy prices dropped 1.2 percent in February after jumping 5 percent in January, as gasoline prices were down 1 percent and natural gas fell 4.5 percent. But they have since moved back up a bit.
 And while inflation pressures faded last month, some analysts cautioned that the mild consumer price report did not eliminate the risks of further price increases in coming months.
 One category drawing more attention recently is rents, which increased 0.3 percent last month from January and 3.1 percent from a year earlier. Stronger hiring and slowing home purchases appear to be driving down high vacancy rates for apartments and forcing up rents. Clothing prices are also expected to rebound, and there is lingering concern that businesses will feel freer to pass on the high costs of energy and transportation to customers as the economy strengthens. 
 ''This was a pretty tame report,'' said David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley, ''but there are at least a few categories that are going to show some acceleration going forward.'' 
 In housing data, the number of new homes started by builders fell 7.9 percent last month, to an annual pace of 2.12 million, after rising 15.7 percent in January, when the temperature, taken on a national average, was the warmest on record for that month.
 Analysts had expected an even bigger drop in housing starts in February, given the weather patterns and reports from several builders that they were offering more incentives to sell homes as interest rates rose and buyers were becoming more selective. An index that measures applications for home mortgages has fallen 23.8 percent since the summer, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
 ''It's a market that is trying to find its footing,'' said Nicholas Buss, a senior vice president at PNC Financial Services' real estate finance group. Mr. Buss expects home sales to fall by about 10 percent this year.
 Still, the number of homes under construction in February increased 0.6 percent, to 1.43 million, its highest level since February 1974, an indication that home building is strong by historical standards. Rebuilding in the Gulf Coast areas hit by hurricanes, an effort that is only now getting under way on a large scale, is also likely to bolster construction in coming months, Mr. Buss said.
 The number of housing permits issued, an indication of future construction activity, fell 3.2 percent, to an annual pace of 2.15 million, after rising 6.8 percent in January.
 Separately, the number of new unemployment insurance claims filed last week rose by 5,000, to 309,000, the Labor Department reported. For the week ended March 4, there were 2.4 million total outstanding jobless claims nationwide, down some 7.6 percent from a year earlier.

 Financial Markets)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows 4-week moving average since September, 2005. (Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BONDS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (59%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Price Index; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Building (Construction); Housing Starts; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department 

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%) Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



343 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Officer Krupke, The Merger Made Me Do It

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
DO big bank mergers lead to more crime? And is that a reason to toughen antitrust enforcement?
 The idea sounds unlikely, and admittedly the effect is a small one. But a persuasive new study published in the April issue of The Journal of Finance finds a relationship.
''This does not explain crime patterns in the United States, but it does indicate that finance matters for things you might not have expected,'' said Mark J. Garmaise, an assistant professor of finance at U.C.L.A. 
 Mr. Garmaise, who conducted the study with Tobias J. Moskowitz, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago, notes that studies around the world have shown that finance matters when it comes to economic growth, and that prosperity affects the level of property crime, such as car thefts and burglaries.
 What they did was get extensive data on commercial lending -- for such things as apartment buildings and stores -- in 11 states. They had the exact location of each piece of property, and information on the mortgage lender, and thus could measure how competitive the lending market was by looking not at countywide data but at lending within 15 miles of each project.
 Then they looked at large bank mergers, where each bank had assets of more than $1 billion, and at areas where the two banks had previously been competitors.
 Here is what they found: If bank concentration increases by 10 percent, you can expect higher interest rates on loans, and smaller loans. And perhaps, although the relationship is not statistically significant, fewer loans will be made.
 Property crime rates increase 1.8 percent over the rate in areas where there is no increase in banking concentration.
 There is, as would be expected, no change in violent crimes. Murder and rape are not economic crimes.
 The effects seem to fade away in three years, presumably because competition returns as other banks take note of the higher margins, but three years is a long time.
 That can be particularly true in areas that face the risk of decline. With less lending, areas can seem older and less attractive.
 Through statistical measures, the authors show that the causation does not run the other way, that declining areas do not lead to bank mergers. By excluding smaller mergers, they also tried to be certain that mergers were not caused by signs of decline in a bank's lending area.
 ''We're not saying that all mergers are bad,'' Mr. Garmaise said in a telephone interview. ''But it is an implication of the paper that bank mergers have effects on construction, income levels and crime.''
 To make it worse, he said, ''the crime effects are much larger in poor neighborhoods.'' The message, he added, ''is that regulators should consider variables like that in deciding whether to approve a merger.''
 A 10 percent increase in bank concentration, measured the way antitrust regulators measure it, can occur from many mergers. Imagine a very competitive market with six lenders, four with 20 percent market shares and two with 10 percent each. If the bottom two merged, concentration would rise 11 percent. It would increase 22 percent if a larger bank bought a smaller one.
 Another way to look for evidence that the pattern works is to see what happened to crime in states that allowed statewide branch banking after barring it earlier, thus making competition easier. That has led to an average 1.5 percent decline in burglaries.
 That does not mean that criminals should be allowed to plead that mergers caused them to violate the law. But it does show that a lack of competition in banking can hurt even those who never seek a loan.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows a 10 percent increase in bank concentration in a neighborhood leads to:Property crimes: +1.8%Commercial loan rates: +0.33 pct. pointSize of commercial loans: -2.2%(Source by Journal of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BURGLARY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); DIVESTITURES (74%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WRITERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%); SEX OFFENSES (63%) Crime and Criminals; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Banks and Banking; Crime and Criminals

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%) University of California (Los Angeles); Journal of Finance

PERSON: Floyd Norris; Mark J Garmaise; Tobias J (Prof) Moskowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



344 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: House Approves $4.2 Billion in Aid Sought by Louisiana 

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
It took weeks of crunching data, crossing fingers and lobbying in Washington. But Louisiana officials and the Bush administration succeeded yesterday in persuading the House to approve $4.2 billion in hurricane relief that state officials say is crucial to their effort to rebuild houses and apartments ruined by last year's storms.
 The House did not require that all this money be spent in Louisiana, as the state's delegation and the White House had urged, leaving state officials concerned that some of the money might be claimed by Mississippi or Texas. 
 But before voting 348 to 71 to spend the money, the House beat back continuing efforts by conservative Republicans to eliminate all of the $19 billion of hurricane spending from the $92 billion emergency supplemental spending bill, which also includes large sums to pay for the war in Iraq. These lawmakers, trying to curb government spending, have also raised concerns that the hurricane money is not being spent wisely.
 Though the measure still faces critics in the Senate, its passage in the House was a deep relief for Louisiana officials, who have struggled to come up with a housing plan after the White House rejected a proposal earlier this year to create a special agency to buy up flooded properties and sell them to developers.
 ''I want to thank the country for its generosity, in that these funds will let these people go back to work,'' said Representative Bobby Jindal, Republican of Louisiana, whose district includes suburbs west and north of New Orleans.
 Housing remains in short supply in Louisiana, and state officials say that makes it virtually impossible for the local economy to recover. 
 Mr. Jindal said he expected the money to be reserved for Louisiana, even though that is not required in the version of the bill passed by the House.
 The money approved by the House yesterday is in the form of community development block grants, which the state can use to buy out properties that cannot be safely rebuilt, as well as to restore houses and rental units. Under the plan for the money proposed by Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana, homeowners could receive up to $150,000, while owners of rental properties would be eligible for loans and other assistance.
 Donald E. Powell, whom the Bush administration appointed to oversee the reconstruction of the Gulf Coast, supported the plan and visited Capitol Hill to explain it, a spokeswoman said in an e-mail message.
 Mr. Powell and Sean Reilly, a member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority who also met with House staff members earlier this week, emphasized that the $4.2 billion request was based on a rigorous analysis of the state's losses.
 ''Every single dollar ties back to a destroyed house or a destroyed piece of critical infrastructure,'' Mr. Reilly said in an interview.
 This approach contrasts with the state's early estimates of its needs, which critics on Capitol Hill said were overblown and unsubstantiated.
 Louisiana will soon send another lobbying contingent to the Senate, which is not expected to vote on the bill until May, Mr. Reilly said.
 ''It gives us more time to make our case,'' he added, ''but the bad news is, every delay means a delay in recovery. People are really hurting.'' 
 In the meantime, senators from Texas and Mississippi are likely to try to get more hurricane-relief money for their states, either by increasing the appropriation or by ensuring that they get some part of the housing money approved yesterday.
 Texas has estimated that it needs $2 billion in hurricane aid, and a spokesman for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, said yesterday that she was committed to taking as much money as she could to her state. 
 Some members of the Louisiana delegation expressed disappointment that the $4.2 billion was not explicitly reserved for their state, which they say suffered disproportionately from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 ''This has put us in a competition for the pittance, the few dollars,'' said Representative Charlie Melancon, Democrat of Louisiana, whose district includes St. Bernard Parish, which was deeply flooded after Hurricane Katrina.
 Mr. Melancon said he was also frustrated that the House had not approved an amendment he sponsored to increase the $1.46 billion in the bill to rebuild New Orleans levees. 
 ''They're hoping we disappear off the radar screen,'' Mr. Melancon said of his colleagues. ''People who wear Christ on their sleeves and vote against helping people are the biggest hypocrites.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, and Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, heading for a meeting on hurricane aid. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); WEATHER (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); KATHLEEN BLANCO (58%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (58%) Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Louisiana; Texas; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



345 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Days Before Vote, Belarus Cracks Down on Opposition

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, March 16 

 BODY:
Days before a presidential election already seen as unfair, President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko's administration has intensified the atmosphere of fear and tension, arresting dozens of campaign workers and other opponents. On Thursday his security chief warned that any opponents who gathered to protest the election's outcome could face criminal charges for terrorism.
 Lt. Gen. Stepan N. Sukhorenko, chief of the security service, still known as the K.G.B., held a news conference here to accuse the opposition of planning to carry out a coup after the voting on Sunday, supported by the United States and Georgia. 
He showed a video of what he said was an opposition political worker confessing to having received training in Georgia from four Arabs and veterans of the Soviet armed forces.
 ''There is a preparation not for the peaceful protest, as the organizers of the so-called revolution declare, but for a well-planned, forceful action,'' he said, according to a transcript of his remarks. He said the plotters intended to use ''explosives, arson and acts of provocation.'' 
 Belarussian officials, including Mr. Lukashenko, who is seeking re-election, have accused foreign powers of fomenting unrest and even revolution before. But coming only three days before the election, General Sukhorenko's remarks raised the specter of a violent confrontation.
 The leading opposition candidate, Aleksandr Milinkevich, has called on supporters to gather in Minsk on Sunday night to defend their rights to elect the next president freely, despite official warnings that any assembly would be illegal.
 Even before the vote, a wave of arrests has deprived Mr. Milinkevich's campaign -- and any protests to follow the vote -- of dozens of its leaders. His campaign announced that 18 of its workers around the country had been arrested in recent days and sentenced to jail terms of five to seven days -- through Sunday's voting. Several others were fined, while still others await sentencing. 
 Two of Mr. Milinkevich's senior campaign directors were sentenced last week to short prison terms after holding campaign rallies that the authorities declared illegal.
 At least five supporters of a second opposition candidate, Aleksandr V. Kazulin, were detained Thursday while distributing fliers in Minsk, two of his aides said. Mr. Kazulin himself was detained and beaten on March 2 while trying to attend a congress held by Mr. Lukashenko.
 Although the figures are inexact, opposition leaders and human rights groups said more than 60 people had been jailed, while hundreds more had been detained for hours at a time, often on charges of swearing, littering and hooliganism.
 ''These were absolutely legal meetings of the campaigns,'' Andrei Sannikov, a leader of the human rights organization Charter 97, said in an interview. ''The authorities are using the criminal code to interfere with the elections.''
 State television reported Thursday night that the Foreign Ministry had summoned American and European ambassadors and warned them that their countries, along with the opposition leaders, would be held responsible for the consequences of any protests on Sunday.
 The European Union and the United States have denounced the harassment of campaign workers, as well as efforts to stifle independent news media and private advocacy organizations. The United Nations special representative for Belarus, Adrian Severin, did so again in a statement on Thursday, while the European Union warned that it would consider expanding a ban on visas to high-ranking Belarussian officials if the elections were not free and fair.
 So far, though, the warnings have had little effect.
 A spokeswoman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said that three of the group's 430 election observers -- two from Poland and one from Germany -- had been refused entry this week, while five others had been denied visas. Unofficial observers from private organizations in Denmark, Ukraine, Lithuania and Georgia have also been turned away at the border.
 Although the Bush administration has declared Mr. Lukashenko Europe's last dictator -- and President Bush last week held a highly symbolic meeting with the widows of two opposition figures who disappeared and are presumed dead -- Mr. Lukashenko retains significant support in Belarus, presiding over economic growth even as he has punished dissent. He also has the support, at times open, of Russia, leaving the United States and Europe with few levers with which to exert pressure.
 Still, Anatoly Lebedko, one of the country's prominent opposition leaders, said the recent crackdown reflected a growing climate of fear that defied the message of stability that Mr. Lukashenko had cultivated with the help of absolute control over the state news media. 
 Mr. Lebedko was detained outside his party headquarters on Wednesday, ostensibly for parking illegally. He was released early Thursday morning but faces a court hearing on Tuesday, which could result in a prison sentence.
 General Sukhorenko singled Mr. Lebedko out in the news conference on Thursday, saying he was under investigation for preparing a terrorist act, punishable by eight years to life in prison, or even death. Mr. Lebedko, in an interview in his office in Minsk, denied the charges, saying no one in the opposition advocated violence.
 ''The authorities for so long have instilled fear in this country that they did not realize that they caught the same virus,'' he said. ''They are afraid.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A police officer waited yesterday to speak to the main opposition candidate for president, Aleksandr Milinkevich, left, before a campaign rally.
 Anatoly Lebedko, a prominent opposition leader, in his office yesterday under portraits of opposition figures who have disappeared mysteriously. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); COUPS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PRISONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); ARSON (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (72%); RIOTS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Elections; Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of the Press; Demonstrations and Riots; Politics and Government; News and News Media; Terrorism

PERSON: Steven Lee Myers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Aleksandr Milinkevich

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA (72%) Belarus; Minsk (Belarus); Belarus

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



346 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Police Memos Say Arrest Tactics Calmed Protest 

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

 BODY:
In five internal reports made public yesterday as part of a lawsuit, New York City police commanders candidly discuss how they had successfully used ''proactive arrests,'' covert surveillance and psychological tactics at political demonstrations in 2002, and recommend that those approaches be employed at future gatherings. 
 Among the most effective strategies, one police captain wrote, was the seizure of demonstrators on Fifth Avenue who were described as ''obviously potential rioters.''
The reports provide a rare glimpse of internal police evaluations and strategies on security and free speech issues that have provoked sharp debate between city officials and political demonstrators since the Sept. 11 attack. 
 The reports also made clear what the police have yet to discuss publicly: that the department uses undercover officers to infiltrate political gatherings and monitor behavior. 
 Indeed, one of the documents -- a draft report from the department's Disorder Control Unit -- proposed in blunt terms the resumption of a covert tactic that had been disavowed by the city and the federal government 30 years earlier. Under the heading of recommendations, the draft suggested, ''Utilize undercover officers to distribute misinformation within the crowds.'' 
 Asked about the proposal, Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the Police Department, said yesterday: ''The N.Y.P.D. does not use police officers in any capacity to distribute misinformation.'' 
 Mr. Browne also said that the ''proactive'' arrests referred to in the report -- numbering about 30 -- involved protesters with pipes and masks who he said presented an obvious threat. 
 In another report, a police inspector praised the ''staging of massive amounts'' of armored vehicles, prisoner wagons and jail buses in the view of the demonstrators, writing that the sight ''would cause them to be alarmed.''
 Besides the draft report, the documents released yesterday included four final reports written by commanders to assess police performance during the World Economic Forum, which met in New York from Jan. 31 to Feb. 4, 2002. 
 The economic forum, a private organization that normally meets in Davos, Switzerland, and draws a grab bag of leaders from government, business, and academia -- as well as protesters from a miscellany of causes and movements -- was moved to the city as a gesture of solidarity after the terror attack.
 Security was extremely tight around Midtown Manhattan, where the delegates were meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria, and demonstrators were kept blocks from the hotel. Officials spoke of violence during antiglobalism protests at other high profile gatherings in Seattle and Genoa, Italy. In the end, though, as one of the police reports noted, ''the amount of confrontation and number of arrests were lower than expected.'' 
 Parts of that document and others were made public, over the objections of the city, by a federal magistrate, Gabriel W. Gorenstein, who said the excerpts went to the heart of a lawsuit brought by 16 people who were arrested at an animal rights demonstration during the economic forum. The police said they were blocking the sidewalk and had refused to obey an order to disperse; the demonstrators said no one told them to move.
 Many of the issues in the animal rights case, which challenge broad police tactics and arrest strategies, resonate in well over a hundred other lawsuits brought against the city by demonstrators who were arrested at war protests, bicycle rallies and during the Republican National Convention.
 Daniel M. Perez, the lawyer representing the people arrested at the animal rights demonstration, argued that the police tactics ''punish, control and curtail the lawful exercise of First Amendment activities.'' The Police Department and the city have said that preserving public order is essential to protecting the civil rights of demonstrators and bystanders. 
 Mr. Perez maintains that the police documents, taken together, show a policy of pre-emptive arrests. The draft report discussed how early arrests could shape future events. ''The arrests made at West 59th Street and Fifth Avenue set a 'tone' with the demonstrators and their possible plans at other demonstrations,'' the report stated. 
 The disorder control unit's commander, Thomas Graham, is listed as the author of the report, but the document is not signed and the word ''draft'' is handwritten across the top. 
 The same tactic is cited in another report, dated Feb. 8, 2002, and signed by Capt. Robert L. Bonifaci, commander of the Queens North Task Force. Captain Bonifaci wrote, ''It should be noted that a large part of the success in policing the major demonstration on Saturday, Feb. 2, 2002, was due in part to the proactive arrest policy that was instituted at the start of the march at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue, and directed toward demonstrators who were obviously potential rioters.'' 
 Elaborating on the report, Mr. Browne, the police spokesman, said that plainclothes officers saw a group of demonstrators put on masks as they drew near the Plaza Hotel, then take out metal pipes and try to rush police lines.
 ''In addition to mainly peaceful protesters, the W.E.F. attracted hard-core, violent elements that were surveilled by the N.Y.P.D.,'' Mr. Browne said, citing the incident at the Plaza. ''Yes, we used surveillance techniques to track and hopefully disrupt violent elements. That's proactive.''
 About 30 people were arrested there, and virtually all their cases are now sealed, indicating that the charges were either dismissed by prosecutors or dropped after six months without further incident.
 The Police Department report from Michael E. Shortell, a deputy inspector who headed a narcotics command in northern Manhattan, included a list of ''positive aspects'' of the Police Department's approach. Among them: ''The staging of massive amounts of equipment in the key areas (e.g. armored vehicles, command posts, prisoner wagons, Department of Correction buses, city buses).''
 Capt. Timothy Hardiman also took note of what he saw as the helpful presence of city corrections buses, which are used to transport prisoners and have reinforced windows, protected by metal grids. 
 ''It was useful to have buses with corrections officers on hand,'' Captain Hardiman wrote. ''They also had a powerful psychological effect.''
 Mr. Browne said the main reason buses were on hand was to quickly move prisoners from an arrest scene. ''If a corrections bus had a deterrent effect on someone contemplating a violent act, then that's value added,'' he said.
 However, the draft report stated that the emphasis on quickly moving prisoners had not been helpful. ''This hastened the process adding to the confusion and increasing the potential for mistakes to be made,'' the report stated.
 Mr. Perez said the show of force sent a deliberate warning to people expressing their opinions. ''The message is, if you turn out, be prepared to be arrested, be prepared to be sent away for a long time,'' he said. ''It sounds like something from a battle zone.''
 Demonstrators arrested during the economic forum were held by the police for up to 40 hours without seeing a judge -- twice as long as people accused of murder, rape and robbery arrested on those same days, Mr. Perez said. 
 Mr. Browne of the Police Department said that the arrests were processed as quickly as possible, and that protesters were not singled out for longer detention.
 The reports, which were heavily edited at the request of the city, also discuss the use of undercover officers at the protests. Captain Hardiman wrote that ''the use of undercovers from narcotics provided useful information.'' And on Inspector Shortell's list of positive aspects of the strategy, he listed ''the use of undercover personnel in the ranks of the protesters.'' 
 The power of the police to secretly monitor political gatherings was tightly controlled by a federal court between 1985 and early 2003, the result of a lawsuit by political activists from the 1960's who charged that police undercover officers had disrupted their ability to express their opinions. Many of the restrictions from that case, known as Handschu, were eased at the request of the city in 2003. 
 The proposal to use undercover officers to spread misinformation -- which the Police Department says was not adopted -- recalled the origins of the Handschu lawsuit, which was based in part on the actions of undercover agents and officers who instigated trouble and spread lies among a group of military veterans who opposed the Vietnam War.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators protesting the World Economic Forum in 2002 being arrested in Central Park. The police say arrests were fewer than expected. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); TRENDS (73%); MAGISTRATES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Terrorism; Suits and Litigation; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Police; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Conventions, National (US); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) World Economic Forum

PERSON: Jim Dwyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); ITALY (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



347 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 794 words

 BODY:

Lower Inflation in Labor Department Report May Mean End to Interest Rate Increases
Inflation slowed sharply last month, the Labor Department reported, providing comfort to many investors that the Federal Reserve might be moving closer to ending its campaign of raising interest rates. [Page C1.] 


Surgical Device Poses a Rare but Serious Peril
A surgical device used in a procedure called a laparoscopy can cause a severe, though rare, complication. An inexpensive solution is available, but many medical treatment centers have failed to obtain it. [C1.]

More Corporations Separate the Top Executive Jobs
According to a study by an executive recruiting firm, 29 percent of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 have separated the positions of chairman and chief executive, up from 21 percent five years ago. [C2.]

John Ashcroft Becomes a Lobbyist
In the era of the Jack Abramoff scandal, John Ashcroft, the former attorney general, who sees himself as a man of integrity, has become a Washington lobbyist. He has set himself up as something of an anti-Abramoff, marketing his insider's knowledge of how Washington works. [C1.]

Barnes & Noble Tops Forecast With Fourth-Quarter Profit
Barnes & Noble posted a 6 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit, beating Wall Street estimates, and forecast better-than-expected earnings for the current quarter. The news set off a 10 percent increase in Barnes & Noble's share price. A Barnes & Noble rival, the Borders Group, which also posted fourth-quarter results, said its income declined 3 percent and forecast a wider loss in the current quarter. [C6.]

Discord in International Cooperation Over Fighter Jet
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter -- a $256 billion fighter jet program led by the United States and co-financed by eight allied nations -- was supposed to be a model of international cooperation. But because of American reluctance to share critical technologies, some of the biggest partners are threatening to withdraw. [C5.]

Microsoft Starts Marketing for Commercial Business
Microsoft began a $500 million marketing campaign to stir enthusiasm among corporate customers for its products and grab business from I.B.M., its biggest rival in the business technology market. [C3.]

Citigroup Executive, Once in Line for Top Job, Resigns
Michael A. Carpenter, a longtime Citigroup executive who at one time was thought to be a contender for the bank's top job, is leaving the company in the latest senior management departure. [C13.]

Attorney General Seeks a Transcript of Grasso Deposition
The New York attorney general's office wants to examine a transcript of a deposition that Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, gave to the Securities and Exchange Commission about his oversight at the exchange. [C4.]

French Seek Measure to Alter Apple's iPod Restrictions
A bill under debate in the French Parliament would require iPods to be able to play music purchased from competing Internet services, not just Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store, forcing changes in the business model that gave rise to the revolution in legal digital music downloads. [C3.]

Lenovo to Cut 1,000 Jobs to Reduce Its Costs
The Lenovo Group, the Chinese computer company that acquired the personal computer business of I.B.M., said that it would cut about 1,000 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force. [C3.]

Analysts Skeptical About Mexican Oil Discovery in Gulf
Analysts say they are skeptical of news this week from the Mexican state oil monopoly that exploratory drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico shows signs of a giant new oil field. Analysts said that it was premature to make an estimate based on preliminary drilling. [C5.]

China, which for more than a century turned its back on Central Asia, has reached out to Kazakhstan, Central Asia's biggest country, for one major reason: oil. But the Chinese are paying a high price. [C5.]

Universal Pictures Names a Pair to Chairman's Position
Rising to fill one of the more coveted slots in Hollywood, Marc Shmuger, a longtime marketing executive, was named chairman of Universal Pictures, a post he will share with David Linde, a senior executive at the company's art house division. It is unusual for two executives to share the job, but Mr. Shmuger, above, will be senior to Mr. Linde, who will be co-chairman, according to Ron Meyer, the president of Universal Studios, who announced the promotions. [C4.]

Blue-Chip Stocks Gain, but Technology Shares Fall
Blue-chip stocks rose as tame inflation data brightened the interest rate outlook, but high-tech shares fell after a decline in Apple Computer. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 43.47 points, to 11,253.24; the S.& P. 500 added 2.31 points, to 1,305.33; and the Nasdaq fell 12.28 points, to 2,299.56. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Barnes & Noble stock closes since February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEPOSITIONS (88%); TRANSCRIPTS (86%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); INTEREST RATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ENDOSCOPY (71%); LAWYERS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); APPLE INC (81%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



348 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Iran and U.S. Agree to Talks On Restoring Calm to Iraq
Iran and the United States agreed to hold direct talks on how to halt sectarian violence and restore calm in Iraq, offering the first face-to-face conversation between the sides after months of confrontation over Iran's nuclear program. A1

The United States military said it had begun an extensive assault on insurgent bases outside Samarra, a city north of Baghdad. 
 A12

Hundreds of protesters in a Kurdish area of Iraq destroyed a museum dedicated to the memory of a poison gas assault by Saddam Hussein's government that killed more than 5,000 people in 1988. A1

U.S. and Ally Diverge on China
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer of Australia took markedly different positions on the rising power of China. A8

Congress Debates India Deal
As Congress debates bills that would approve the Bush administration's nuclear deal with India, numerous members of the House and the Senate are telling administration officials that they want to rewrite parts of the agreement. A8

Serbia Torn on Milosevic Legacy
As supporters of Slobodan Milosevic filed past his coffin in Serbia, it was possible to find conflicted feelings about his legacy and whether he was a nationalist hero or villain. A10

NATIONAL A16-21

Senate Approves Budget, Exceeding Spending Limits
The Senate narrowly approved a $2.8 trillion election-year budget that broke spending limits only hours after increasing federal borrowing power to avert a government default. The budget decision, at the end of a marathon day of voting, followed by hours a separate 52-to-48 Senate vote to increase the federal debt limit by $781 billion. A1

Changing Goals for Seminarians
Across the country, enrollment is up at Protestant seminaries, but a shrinking portion of the graduates will ascend the pulpit. A1

Bush Names Interior Pick
Moving quickly to fill the latest vacancy in his cabinet, President Bush chose Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho to succeed Gale A. Norton as the next secretary of the interior. A16

Deaths Linked to Drug
An unusual number of deaths among patients in a large study of Aricept, the most popular drug used to treat Alzheimer's disease, is raising concern among federal drug officials and some disease experts. A16

Lawyer Forced to Take Leave
Carla J. Martin, the government lawyer whose improper coaching of witnesses has jeopardized the death penalty trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, was forced to take a leave from the Transportation Security Administration, a department spokeswoman said. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Police Report Details Strategy With Protesters
New York City police commanders, in a series of reports made public as part of a lawsuit, candidly discussed how they had successfully used ''proactive arrests,'' covert surveillance and psychological tactics at political demonstrations in 2002. A1

A War Chest in Peacetime
Howard D. Mills, New York State's insurance superintendent, accepted $15,000 in campaign contributions despite the fact that he is not running for office, campaign filings show. B1

Asian Smuggler Sentenced
A Chinatown businesswoman was sentenced to 35 years in prison for running one of New York City's most lucrative immigrant-smuggling rings. B1

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-40

ESCAPES F1-14

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES C15

Rene Lasserre
A renowned Parisian restaurateur, one of a group who came to prominence in the years after World War II, he was 93. C15

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Inflation Slowed Last Month
Government reports showed that inflation and construction of new homes slowed sharply last month, providing comfort to many investors that the Federal Reserve might be moving closer to ending its campaign of raising interest rates. C1

Ashcroft Becomes Lobbyist
Former attorney general John Ashcroft has become a Washington lobbyist, marketing his insider's knowledge of how Washington works to corporations seeking contracts from the growing homeland security budget. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Greed vs. good at ground zero; time for facts, not resolutions; talks with Iran; smaller than a football field.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E32
TV Listings E31
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CAPITAL CRIMES (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (70%); LITIGATION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); LAWYERS (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



349 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND IRANIANS AGREE TO DISCUSS VIOLENCE IN IRAQ

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and DAVID E. SANGER; Michael Slackman reported from Tehran for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran, and Steven R. Weisman from Sydney, Australia.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, March 16 

 BODY:
Iran and the United States agreed Thursday to hold direct talks on how to halt sectarian violence and restore calm in Iraq, offering the first face-to-face conversation between the sides after months of confrontation over Iran's nuclear program. 
 Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, announced in Iran's Parliament on Thursday that he would send a team of negotiators to Iraq to meet with American representatives there. But he also suggested in an interview that there would be stiff preconditions.
''I think Iraq is a good testing ground for America to take a harder look at the way it acts,'' Mr. Larijani said in his office shortly after making the announcement. ''If there's a determination in America to take that hard look, then we're prepared to help.'' 
 In Washington, the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said that American officials would have a ''very narrow mandate'' in talking to the Iranians, and that direct talks on the nuclear issue would occur only with the major European powers and Russia and China. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said in Sydney, Australia, that talks with Iranian envoys in Baghdad could be ''useful'' but would be limited to discussions on Iraqi security. ''This isn't a negotiation of some kind,'' she said. President Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, said he regarded Iran's initiative as a sign that Tehran's leaders ''are finally beginning to listen'' to the nations that have referred Iran's nuclear activity to the United Nations Security Council. 
 But he suggested that there had been plenty of dialogue -- most of it conducted in public -- and that the problem was not one of discussion but of action by Iran to give up all production of nuclear fuel.
 As both sides maneuver for leverage on the nuclear issue, Iran has continued to indicate that it could be a help -- or hindrance -- in Iraq, where a majority of the population are Shiite Muslims, as in Iran.
 It is not clear exactly what steps Iran could take to help stabilize Iraq. But it has long supported Iraqi Shiite political parties and maintained personal ties with their leaders. 
 The United States has been putting pressure on Shiite leaders to make concessions to Sunni parties and to rein in militias implicated in death squads and sectarian reprisals. 
 Mr. Larijani, general secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, announced that he would send negotiators to Iraq to meet with the American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad. He said he was acting at the request of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, a leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a Shiite religious party with links to Iran. Mr. Larijani also said Mr. Khalilzad had reached out to Iran on several occasions asking for help.
 ''Hakim urged the Iranian government to do this because he said it was necessary for security in Iraq,'' said Mr. Larijani's spokesman, Hossein Entezami, who was present during the interview.
 A senior administration official, who would not speak on the record because he is not authorized to talk about Iran, said Mr. Khalilzad had asked the Iranians months ago to talk about Iraq, chiefly to warn Tehran to stop sending in weapons. 
 Earlier this week, Mr. Bush accused Tehran of producing sophisticated roadside bombs that are being used against both Iraqi and American troops.
 Mr. Hadley appeared to try to dampen expectations that the talks would produce any breakthroughs, saying: ''We're talking to Iran all the time: We make statements; they make statements.'' 
 So far, most of those statements have amounted to a public exchange of accusations and vague threats, from Iran's periodic claim that it would consider an oil cutoff if the Security Council censured it, to the Bush administration's warning, in a revised national security strategy released on Thursday, that diplomacy ''must succeed if confrontation is to be avoided.''
 Nonetheless, the decision by Tehran to open talks amounts to the first tangible sign that Iran has taken a step back, however slight, from its full-bore confrontational approach with the United States and Europe over its nuclear program. Since early last summer, Iran has moved aggressively in defiance of the West, opening its nuclear facilities and moving ahead with small-scale uranium enrichment. 
 The Iranian leadership's combative approach had won wide support in Iran when it was seen to be working. But with Iran unable to win the unequivocal support of Russia and with the board of International Atomic Energy Agency referring the case to the Security Council, there has been growing concern in Iran and a desire among some to move away from all-out confrontation.
 While Iran reopened its nuclear facilities and canceled its voluntary cooperation with Europe over inspections, it did not resume industrial-level enrichment when it was referred to the Security Council, as it had threatened. Mr. Entezami said Iran ''did not want to provoke.''
 Mr. Larijani, who ran for president in the last election, sat for more than an hour in his office defending Iran's right to develop nuclear energy, while berating the United States as arrogant, evil and disrespectful of other countries.
 In between the invective, he held out the prospect that Iran might be able to help America in calming Iraq. He did not mention that Iran would also stand to gain from stability next door and from the presence of a strong Shiite- dominated government receptive to Iranian influence.
 ''We have repeatedly said that we are willing to help bring stability in Iraq and bring to power a democratic government,'' Mr. Larijani said. ''We are prepared to give our hand. But the condition is that the United States should respect the vote of the people. Their army must not provoke from behind the scenes.''
 ''We do not have much trust,'' Mr. Larijani said. ''We have certain doubts about the way Americans act. We do not hear one voice. We hear distorted voices from the U.S.''
 The feeling is mutual in Washington, where R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, told reporters on Thursday that ''we see an Iranian government, particularly since Ahmadinejad came to office, that seems bound and determined to create a nuclear weapons capability.'' He said Washington had calculated that facing that kind of leader, ''it is better to try to isolate the Iranian government.''
 Mr. Hadley also took care to say the repetition of the American doctrine of pre-emptive military action to face down nuclear threats had not been made ''with Iran in mind.'' 
 In Tehran, European diplomats said there did not appear to be room for common ground on the nuclear issue for now. One European diplomat said the West would never accept Iran's bottom line, that it must enrich uranium on Iranian soil to bolster its scientific and economic development.
 One diplomat said Iranian feelers about direct talks with the United States were a local political calculation. Despite public invective against America, many Iranians are eager to see an improvement in relations. 
 ''Is there a deal out there that gives them enrichment? No,'' said the diplomat who agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the discussion.
 Another European diplomat said the West had little trust left in Iran. 
 ''The leadership here has managed to sell us the same carpet four times, and each time, it's a bit more expensive,'' said the diplomat, who also spoke anonymously to preserve his ability to work in Tehran. 
 But several European diplomats said that only direct talks between the United States and Iran could produce a diplomatic agreement to head off a crisis. 
 ''They want a security guarantee that only the United States can give,'' a European diplomat said. ''They want a guarantee to at least be left alone.''
 There is something else Iran wants from America, and the nuclear issue is only the latest flashpoint in a grievance that has existed since the Islamic revolution nearly three decades ago. As Mr. Larijani spelled out grievances and slights, it was clear that he was saying, among other things, that Iran wants respect.
 ''If America wants to be a superpower, it should learn its manners,'' Mr. Larijani said. ''One should not humiliate others.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about an agreement between Iran and the United States to hold talks about the violence in Iraq referred incorrectly in some copies to the country whose nuclear program has been referred to the United Nations Security Council for possible punitive action. It is Iran, not Iraq.
An article yesterday about an agreement between Iran and the United States to hold talks about the violence in Iraq referred incorrectly in some copies to the country whose nuclear program has been referred to the United Nations Security Council for possible punitive action. It is Iran, not Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Larijani, Iran's nuclear negotiator, right, in Parliament yesterday before announcing he will send a team to Iraq to meet with Americans. (Photo by Yahid Salemi/Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (56%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Michael Slackman; David E Sanger; Ali Larijani; Zalmay (Amb) Khalilzad; Abdul Aziz Al- Hakim; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN (92%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



350 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Rice and Australian Counterpart Differ About China

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Friday, March 17 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer of Australia struck markedly different tones here on Thursday over the rising power of China, with Ms. Rice criticizing its military expansion and Mr. Downer warning against trying to ''contain'' Chinese ambitions. 
 The difference in approach underscored the uneasiness that Ms. Rice has found this week in a region that the United States once dominated as a superpower but now has to navigate uneasily because of China's spreading influence. 
Her criticism was unusually tough, especially since she was speaking in China's front yard and was planning to meet here on Saturday with Mr. Downer and the foreign minister of Japan, Taro Aso, to discuss security issues. Mr. Aso has angered leaders in China with his own criticism of its military buildup. 
 ''There is no doubt that, as with any complex relationship, there are difficult issues as well as positive elements,'' Ms. Rice said at a news conference, speaking of the Chinese. She praised China's cooperation on North Korea and Iran but criticized its military, economic and human rights policies. Noting that at the recent National People's Congress, the Chinese announced a 14 percent increase in military spending, Ms. Rice said, ''That's a lot, and China should undertake to be transparent about what that means.''
 She went on to refer to the Bush administration contention that China has kept its currency artificially low to pump out exports, and to say China had a poor record on protecting intellectual property rights, opening its government-controlled markets to foreign investment and protecting religious freedom.
 The meeting billed as a ''trilateral security forum'' on Saturday with Mr. Downer and Mr. Aso has stirred attention in East Asia as rising nationalist sentiments in both Japan and China have worsened their relations. 
 But the meeting, coupled with President Bush's recent agreement to supply nuclear aid to India, has also underscored concerns in Australia that the United States is trying to forge closer military cooperation with countries surrounding China.
 Before Ms. Rice arrived, Mr. Downer told Sky News: ''We don't support a policy of containment of China. I don't think that's going to be a productive or constructive policy at all.'' His comments were described in the Australian press as an effort to assuage China's concerns about American-Australian policies.
 Appearing at the news conference with Ms. Rice, Mr. Downer said that the United States and Australia were in agreement on the issue, however, and that Australia felt comfortable with American policy. ''We've never had a concern that the United States was pursuing a policy of containment with China,'' he said.
 Ms. Rice, speaking later to university students, was asked by one student about efforts to put pressure on China. She said that if China cooperated economically and politically with other countries, its influence would be ''terrific -- not just good, terrific.''
 The mixed comments came as Ms. Rice sought to reinforce relations with Australia after a period in which some Australians have felt neglected by the United States. Ms. Rice canceled a visit here in January, and there has not been a permanent American ambassador in Australia since 2004.
 After a rousing speech to sailors aboard the American missile cruiser Port Royal, which is headed for the Persian Gulf, Ms. Rice spoke before the audience of a few hundred students from various universities and was confronted with tough questions about American policies toward Iraq, the Palestinians, China and civil liberties at home.
 Ms. Rice reiterated her views at a meeting with Prime Minister John Howard on Friday. The Friday issue of The Australian quoted her as saying in an interview that the United States policy toward China did not represent ''containment.''
 At the university forum on Thursday, three hecklers who shouted ''You're a war criminal!'' and ''Iraqi blood is on your hands!'' were quickly ejected. ''I'm very glad to see that democracy is alive and well at the university,'' she said in response. ''I'm glad that it will also be alive and well at the University of Kabul and the University of Baghdad.''
 She said she was confident that Iraqis would forge a democracy and quell the insurgency, ''but we must be patient with these people and patient with the course of democracy.''
 As she has often in these settings, Ms. Rice spoke in fervent personal terms about democracy, recalling her own coming of age in Birmingham, Ala., in the 1950's and 1960's, when there was a sense of hopelessness about racial justice. ''In my lifetime, Birmingham transformed,'' Ms. Rice said. ''America transformed. I stand before you as a black secretary of state, something that I think 30 or 40 years ago would have been thought impossible.''
 The audience applauded warmly when she spoke about herself. But most of the students' questions, though polite, were critical. One questioner noted that compared with other rich nations, the United States devoted a small percentage of its national economy to foreign aid. Ms. Rice responded that the Bush administration had increased foreign aid by 50 percent.
 She said that in the past, American assistance had often been wasted on corrupt regimes, and that her government was trying to redirect aid to improve its use.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice answering questions yesterday after addressing university students in Sydney, Australia. (Pool photo by Rob Griffith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); TARO ASO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Steven R Weisman; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Alexander (Min) Downer

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (96%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) China; Australia; China

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



351 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Tying Religion and Politics to an Impending U.S. Decline

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

American Theocracy
The Peril and Politics of Radical Religion, Oil, and Borrowed Money in the 21st Century
By Kevin Phillips
462 pages. Viking. $26.95
 Kevin Phillips, a former Republican strategist who helped design that party's Southern strategy, made his name with his 1969 book, ''The Emerging Republican Majority,'' which predicted the coming ascendancy of the G.O.P. In the decades since, Mr. Phillips has become a populist social critic, and his last two major books -- ''Wealth and Democracy'' (2002) and ''American Dynasty'' (2004) -- were furious jeremiads against the financial excesses of the 1990's and what he portrayed as the Bush family's ''blatant business cronyism,'' with ties to big oil, big corporations and the military-industrial complex. 
His latest book, ''American Theocracy,'' the concluding volume of this ''trilogy of indictments,'' ranges far beyond the subject suggested by its title -- an examination of the religious right and its influence on the current administration -- to anatomize a host of economic, political, military and social developments that Mr. Phillips sees as troubling indices of the United States' coming decline. The book not only reiterates observations made in ''Wealth and Democracy'' and ''American Dynasty,'' but also reworks some of the arguments made by the historian Paul Kennedy in ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers,'' dealing with the role that economic factors play in the fortunes of great powers and the dangers empires face in becoming financially and militarily overextended.
 All in all, ''American Theocracy'' is a more reasoned (and therefore more sobering) book than ''American Dynasty,'' substituting copious illustrations and detailed if sometimes partisan analysis for angry, conspiratorial rants. But if Mr. Phillips does an artful job of pulling together a lot of electoral data and historical insights to buttress his polemical points, he also demonstrates a tendency to extrapolate -- sometimes profligately -- from the specific to the general, from the particular to the collective, especially when making his prognostications of impending decline.
 As he's done in so many of his earlier books, Mr. Phillips draws a lot of detailed analogies in these pages, using demographics, economic statistics and broader cultural trends to map macropatterns throughout history. In analyzing the fates of Rome, Hapsburg Spain, the Dutch Republic, Britain and the United States, he comes up with five symptoms of ''a power already at its peak and starting to decline'': 1) ''widespread public concern over cultural and economic decay,'' along with social polarization and a widening gap between rich and poor; 2) ''growing religious fervor'' manifested in a close state-church relationship and escalating missionary zeal; 3) ''a rising commitment to faith as opposed to reason and a corollary downplaying of science''; 4) ''considerable popular anticipation of a millennial time frame'' and 5) ''hubris-driven national strategic and military overreach'' in pursuit of ''abstract international missions that the nation can no longer afford, economically or politically.'' Added to these symptoms, he writes, is a sixth one, almost too obvious to state: high debt, which can become ''crippling in its own right.'' 
 Mr. Phillips methodically proceeds to show how each of these symptoms applied to great powers like the Dutch Republic and the British empire in the past, and how they apply to the United States today.
 He reviews how deregulation, the implosion of American manufacturing, the rising cost of oil imports and substantial tax cuts have contributed to skyrocketing debt levels and trade deficits, and how the country's net international indebtedness has soared, he estimates, into the $4 trillion range. 
 He argues -- not altogether persuasively -- that the Bush administration was pushed toward war with Iraq by pressure from Republican constituencies: energy producers worried about dwindling oil supplies; financiers worried that OPEC could end the dollar's virtual monopoly on oil pricing; and fundamentalist Christians, convinced that recent developments in the Middle East were signposts on the road to Armageddon and the end-time.
 Mr. Phillips adds that ''the 30 to 40 percent of the electorate caught up in Scripture'' has exerted a strong pull on the current White House and the Republican party, driving the country toward what he calls ''a national Disenlightenment'' in which science -- ''notably biotechnology, climate studies and straight-talking petroleum geology,'' which warns of dwindling oil reserves and the need to find oil substitutes -- is questioned, even defied.
 As Mr. Phillips sees it, ''the Southernization of American governance and religion'' is ''abetting far-reaching ideological change and eroding the separation of powers between church and state,'' while moving the Republican party toward ''a new incarnation as an ecumenical religious party, claiming loyalties from hard-shell Baptists and Mormons, as well as Eastern Rite Catholics and Hasidic Jews,'' who all define themselves against the common enemy of secular liberalism. 
 The interpenetration of religion and politics, Mr. Phillips argues, not only poses a threat to democratic principles, but may also affect the course of history, as various precedents suggest: ''Militant Catholicism helped undo the Roman and Spanish empires; the Calvinist fundamentalism of the Dutch Reformed Church helped to block any 18th-century Dutch renewal; and the interplay of imperialism and evangelicalism led pre-1914 Britain into a bloodbath and global decline.'' 
 In the case of America today, Mr. Phillips blames the Republican party and its base for spurring many of the troubling developments -- namely, ''U.S. oil vulnerability, excessive indebtedness and indulgence of radical religion'' -- that he says are threatening the country's future. 
 ''The Republican electoral coalition,'' he declares, ''near and dear to me four decades ago, when I began writing 'The Emerging Republican Majority,' has become more and more like the exhausted, erring majorities of earlier failures: the militant, Southernized Democrats of the 1850's; the stock-market-dazzled and Elmer Gantry-ish G.O.P. of the 1920's; and the imperial liberals of the 1960's with their Great Society social engineering, quagmire in Vietnam and New Economy skills expected to tame the business cycle.'' 
 Unfortunately for the reader, Mr. Phillips does not use his familiarity with G.O.P. politics to examine more fully the future of the Republican party. While he writes that ''theological correctness stands to be a Republican Achilles' heel,'' he does little to flesh out this notion; nor does he do much to illuminate the factional splits within the party that have grown during the presidency of George W. Bush: from fiscal conservatives furious about this administration's deficit spending to pragmatic party regulars worried about the president's tumbling poll numbers to growing numbers of conservatives upset about the administration's decision to go to war with Iraq and its pursuit of Wilsonian foreign policy ideals.
 In an afterword, Mr. Phillips suggests that the G.O.P. coalition is ''fatally flawed from a national-interest standpoint'' partly because it is dominated ''by an array ofoutsider religious denominations caught up in biblical morality, distrust of science and a global imperative of political and religious evangelicalism,'' but he does not really explain why this development could lead to a Republican downfall. Perhaps he is saving that for his next book -- when the results of the midterm elections are known.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Phillips (Photo by Katherine Lambert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POLITICS (91%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LITERATURE (72%); TRENDS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); STATISTICAL METHOD (66%); STATISTICS (61%); INDICTMENTS (52%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Michiko Kakutani; Kevin Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



352 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKET: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Blue Chips Rise on News of Mild Inflation

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose Thursday as tame inflation data brightened the interest rate outlook. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index registered its fifth day of gains in its longest winning streak so far this year. 
 The Nasdaq composite index fell, with shares of Apple Computer losing nearly 3 percent after a broker cut its price target on the company. 
 Shares of banks and companies sensitive to higher interest rates rose, along with home builders' stocks, as hopes grew that the Federal Reserve would feel less pressure to raise interest rates aggressively. 
 Shares of energy companies like Exxon Mobil advanced after a 2.3 percent increase in oil prices. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 43.47 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,253.24. The S.& P. 500 added 2.31 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,305.33. The Nasdaq fell 12.28 points, or 0.5 percent, at 2,299.56. 
 ''It's more news of good economic growth and low inflation,'' Jim Awad, chairman of Awad Asset Management, said of the day's economic data. ''That takes pressure off of stocks.'' 
 The Labor Department said last month's Consumer Price Index rose 0.1 percent, matching economists' forecasts, compared with a 0.7 percent increase in January. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.1 percent, slower than the forecast 0.2 percent rise. 
 In other economic data, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's index of business conditions for the Middle Atlantic region fell to 12.3 in March, from 15.4 in February, though any reading above zero signifies growth. 
 A Dow Jones index of home builders rose 2.2 percent, making it one of the best-performing groups in the market on Thursday. 
 Shares of Charles Schwab gained 65 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $17.59, after the discount stockbroker said it expected first-quarter earnings to top Wall Street forecasts on strong flows of investor funds. 
 Apple fell $1.92, to $64.31, after analysts at Bear Stearns cut the company's share price target to $100, from $103. 
 Analysts said investors were moving money out of technology stocks and into financials and industrials, which have had stronger earnings. 
 Also, today marks the end of a period in which four different types of March futures and options contracts reach expiration, a period that can lead to greater volume and volatility. 
 The activity could add pressure to tech stocks, said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at the New York brokerage firm Spencer Clarke. 
 ''It could be that tech buyers are running out of gas in the near term,'' he said. ''Some investors are rotating into other areas like financials and industrials.''
 Semiconductor stocks took the biggest hit on the Nasdaq, pressuring shares of Applied Materials, the world's top supplier of equipment for making microchips. 
 The shares fell 87 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $17.70. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange index of semiconductors registered its biggest one-day percentage drop since January, ending down 3.2 percent. 
 The Web search company Google hit a 52-week low before closing down $5.73 , at $338.77. 
 April crude oil futures rose $1.41, to $63.58 a barrel in New York, amid worries about summer gasoline supplies. 
 Shares of Exxon rose 62 cents, to $61.64. Exxon was the biggest positive influence on the S.& P. 
 The Bear Stearns Company posted first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street expectations. Shares of the investment bank reversed early gains and fell 94 cents, to $133.27.
 Treasuries rose. Economists said that there was no urgent need for the Fed to raise rates much further after the report on the Consumer Price Index. 
 The benchmark 10-year note rose 20/32, to 98 27/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.64 percent, from 4.73 percent late Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



353 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Some Absences At 'Mets TV' Party

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SportsNet New York's debut yesterday was so much different from the YES Network's in 2002. To celebrate, the Mets' network gave itself a party on the plaza outside its studio on Avenue of the Americas. YES had no gala outside its Manhattan office or its Stamford studio, but at the time the Yankees' channel was enmeshed in what would be a yearlong boycott by Cablevision.
 Mr. Met was there at 51st Street. So was a phalanx of men and women dressed as SNY's advertising and promotional character, a fan with a TV set for a head. T-shirts, caps and 10-inch L.C.D. televisions were given away, yet this newest New York network shared one thing with YES: it came to life without a deal to be carried by Cablevision. 
 A few minutes before SNY's inaugural program, a panel chat show called ''Daily News Live,'' was to start at 5 p.m., Fred Wilpon, the Mets' owner, shrugged when asked if Cablevision's assent was imminent. So did Jack Williams, president of Comcast SportsNet, the smallest investor in the network but its operator. Fred Dressler, the executive vice president of Time Warner Cable, the second-largest investor after the Mets, said, ''It won't be done by 5:00, but maybe by 5:30.'' It wasn't.
 As Jon Litner, the SNY president, prepared to turn the network on with the push of a giant remote's button, Robert Katz of Bergenfield, N.J., shouted, ''Jon, let's get on Cablevision!'' 
 But the absence of Cablevision's three million subscribers from SNY at its start did not seem as serious as the YES-level Defcon 1. The two sides have agreed on economics -- Cablevision will pay a monthly fee of $1.70 to $1.75 a subscriber -- but lesser issues are unresolved. Cablevision was so optimistic, some customer agents told subscribers that they would see SNY promptly at 5 p.m. yesterday. 
 That turned out to be excessive optimism, an attitude that never permeated the acrimonious talks Cablevision had with YES.
 Spirits were high enough that nobody sent Eliot Spitzer, the state attorney general who brokered the Cablevision-YES deal in 2003, into the bullpen.
 There are other holdouts, like Patriot Media, a cable operator in New Jersey, and the satellite operators DirecTV and Dish Network. And although their subscribers did not see last night's Mets-Braves exhibition game, the real crisis for the new TV venture and Mets fans is opening day, April 3.
 SNY wants to be a local ESPN, with its combination of Mets broadcasts; Jets programming; collegiate, National Lacrosse and Arena Football League games; and newscasts at 6 and 10 p.m. and 1 a.m. Mets games will be the primary reason to watch, but SNY's desire to fill what it believes to be a gap in news delivery about the broad world of local sports will differentiate it from YES, which has no formal news programming.
 The intention is to be purely objective, so if there is bad news about the Mets, it will not be ignored or slathered with honey.
 Wilpon has vowed not to interfere and presumably will not be sending in questions to the team reporter Siafa Lewis, as Yankees officials have to the YES reporter Kim Jones.
 ''We're trying to have an independent network, and it can't be done otherwise,'' said Wilpon, who insisted that he had never interfered with team coverage, although somebody at Shea dispatched Tim McCarver in 1999.
 Wilpon is savvy enough to know that he will not want SNY compared with the MSG Network, where serious criticism is muted.
 Litner said that SNY's business plan was based on independence. ''We need it to earn the trust of fans regardless of their sports loyalties,'' he said.
 Few networks escape their first day without technical problems, and for six minutes that must have seemed like an eternity to SNY officials the ''SportsNite'' program at 6 p.m. experienced lost sound, disappearing and shaky video, the appearance of a test pattern and the sound of grinding gears. A few times, the live program reverted to a tape of ''Daily News Live.''
 At 7, SNY had no problems summoning up the opening comments of Gary Cohen, the team's former radio voice now seen in his video flesh -- he's balding! -- and Keith Hernandez. But two more glitches then occurred: Time Warner subscribers with older, analog boxes had to be shocked to see a Japanese program instead of chunks of the game, and the sound was very tinny.

NOTES
 On the first afternoon that N.C.A.A. tournament games were offered free online at cbs.sportsline.com, ncaasports.com and cstv.com, 268,000 fans simultaneously watched the basketball games -- which were streamed by mlb.com -- and 1.2 million in total. ABC revamped its N.B.A. pregame show yesterday, naming Dan Patrick the host and Mark Jackson and Michael Wilbon, the Washington Post columnist, as analysts. Patrick replaces Mike Tirico, who will call games.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (83%); BASEBALL (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SPORTS (62%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (60%); LACROSSE (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (50%) Baseball; Television

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (55%); DISH NETWORK CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%) Sportsnet New York

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (55%); DISH (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



354 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Expressing Eagerness to Build, Developer of 9/11 Site Asks Pataki to Revive Talks

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Still reeling from the collapse of talks on the rebuilding of ground zero, the developer Larry A. Silverstein implored Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday to resume negotiations in the interest of ''getting the World Trade Center rebuilt.'' 
 In a letter to the governor, which was also sent to reporters, Mr. Silverstein expressed bewilderment and sadness over the turn of events this week, which included Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official, describing him as ''greedy.'' 
Mr. Silverstein's letter said, ''The events and the words of the past few days deeply saddened me, because in my heart, I know that we both share that passionate commitment to rebuild, and that we both know there is no time to lose. That is why I am ready and eager to return to the negotiating table.''
 All sides had hoped that the talks would accelerate rebuilding and resolve longstanding financial issues between Mr. Silverstein, the leaseholder at the trade center site, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the land. 
 But the Port Authority broke off the negotiations on Tuesday night, saying Mr. Silverstein had come in with an onerous, last-minute counterproposal guaranteeing him a profit while asking the authority to assume all the risks for the $7 billion project.
 In his letter, Mr. Silverstein said that he had already made ''enormous concessions'' to try to get the World Trade Center rebuilt. Separately, the developer told NY1 News yesterday, ''I'm not going anywhere.''
 In response to the letter, Mr. Gargano, who is also vice chairman of the Port Authority, said he looked forward to a new proposal.
 ''When Larry Silverstein submits a proposal that does not put the Port Authority at risk for over a billion dollars, we will immediately resume negotiations to bring financial certainty and expedite the redevelopment of the World Trade Center site,'' Mr. Gargano said, softening his stance from the day before, when he ruled out further negotiations. 
 If Mr. Silverstein's intention was to get the governor personally involved in the negotiations in the hope that he would be more sympathetic, Mr. Pataki was having none of it.
 ''The Port Authority is anxiously awaiting a new offer from Silverstein that will accelerate construction and obtain financial certainty for the full build-out of the site,'' said Joanna Rose, a Pataki spokeswoman. ''The governor fully expects the Port Authority and Silverstein Properties to expeditiously negotiate towards resolution once that offer is received.''
 State officials, Port Authority executives and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have become more concerned that Mr. Silverstein does not have the money to quickly build all five office towers planned for the site, because there is only $2.9 billion in insurance money available.
 The two sides had been negotiating an arrangement in which the Port Authority would take control of building the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower, the largest, most symbolic skyscraper on the 16-acre site, and a second tower, at Cedar and Greenwich Streets. 
 Mr. Silverstein, in turn, would build the most lucrative sites for three towers and a shopping mall along Greenwich Street.
 But the talks foundered on the financial plan for the project.
 Mr. Silverstein insisted that he had negotiated ''in absolute good faith -- until the Port Authority broke off the talks.'' In comments over the past several days, Mr. Silverstein and his aides have carefully blamed the rising tension over the past month and the sudden impasse Tuesday on Port Authority executives, rather than the governor or his staff. 
 But while Mr. Gargano and Kenneth J. Ringler, the executive director of the Port Authority who had been appointed by the governor, were at the bargaining table late Tuesday night, the person overseeing the talks was John Cahill, the governor's chief of staff.
 And it was Mr. Pataki himself who released a statement on Wednesday placing fault for the breakdown in good-faith negotiations squarely on Mr. Silverstein's shoulders. He said Mr. Silverstein had ''betrayed the public's trust.'' 
 ''We cannot and will not allow profit margins to be put ahead of the public interest in expediting the rebuilding of the site of the greatest tragedy on American soil,'' the governor said.
 But clearly yesterday there was an effort to tamp down the rhetoric.
 Asked whether ''greedy'' was the appropriate word for describing Mr. Silverstein's motivations, Mr. Gargano told Gabe Pressman of WNBC-TV during the taping of his Sunday morning program that emotions had been running high during the talks. 
 ''I don't want to continue to use those types of descriptions of individuals or corporations,'' Mr. Gargano said. ''But the fact is that we have to look at the public interest.''
 Still, Mr. Silverstein may never again see the deal that both sides say was close at hand Tuesday night.
 Anthony R. Coscia, the chairman of the Port Authority, said yesterday that the city, the state and the Port Authority are moving aggressively to rebuild the site. He said the authority intends to accelerate the excavation of the foundation on the east side of the site and the designs for the shopping mall.
 ''Since Larry Silverstein has refused a reasonable compromise on restructuring the original ground lease, it is our expectation that he will fully live up to his obligation to build 10 million square feet of office space, beginning with the Freedom Tower,'' Mr. Coscia said. ''We collectively expect to hold Silverstein Properties responsible for meeting its deadlines. If they fail to do that, the Port Authority would use legal means to take over the development of the Freedom Tower and the balance of the site.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside the pit at ground zero yesterday. Four and a half years have passed since 9/11 with little progress toward rebuilding the site, but Gov. George E. Pataki is insisting that construction begin next month. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TERRORISM (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Finances

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%) Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



355 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Regional Transit Council Puts Hudson Tunnel on List

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
A group of New York political leaders and transportation officials threw their support yesterday behind a project that would start in New Jersey -- a $6 billion rail tunnel under the Hudson River.
 The group, known as the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, voted to add the proposed tunnel to its list of major projects that need to be built during the next 25 years. Projects must be on the list, known as the regional transportation plan, to qualify for federal funds.
 The council, whose members represent city and state agencies and five suburban New York counties, published a regional plan last year that did not include the trans-Hudson tunnel. But at its annual meeting yesterday, the council amended the plan to add the tunnel, a top priority of officials in New Jersey, over the objections of some who prefer different configurations for the project. 
 The vote occurred just minutes after the council's co-chairmen announced that its members had settled on some shared goals and would work in concert to identify transportation projects that would meet them. This newfound spirit of cooperation will help in obtaining more federal financing for improvements in the region, said Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who completed a one-year term yesterday as a council co-chairman.
 ''It's important that we, as a region, try to establish a vision that will target growth'' and contain suburban sprawl, said Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat who is running for governor of New York. He added that the council had recognized in the past year that ''working together, we'll be much more effective than we have been working separately.''
 The council is responsible for tracking long-term transportation projects that will require financing from the federal government. In the past, it had no mechanism for measuring the relative benefits of big projects and prioritizing them. As a result, local officials lobbied against one another for money in Washington, pitting bridges against tunnels against subway lines.
 Now, the council is developing a process for gauging a project's importance by certain criteria, including its potential benefits to the regional economy, environment and quality of life, said Thomas J. Madison Jr., commissioner of the New York State Department of Transportation. Mr. Madison is a co-chairman of the council, along with Iris Weinshall, the transportation commissioner of New York City, who succeeded Mr. Suozzi yesterday.
 Other members represent Putnam, Rockland, Suffolk and Westchester Counties.
 Mr. Madison said that the council's direction had been uncertain beyond lining up financing for two big projects: a subway under Second Avenue in Manhattan and a connection for the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal under the East River.
 All told, the council has identified $70 billion in needed but unfinanced projects, including the possible replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge, Mr. Madison said. With the prospect of declining amounts of money from Washington, Gov. George E. Pataki is pushing for legislation in Albany that would allow the state to enter partnerships with private companies to build or operate highways, bridges or other public assets.
 Mr. Madison said: ''This is something we need to look at. Financing is going to be an incredibly important part of our discussions in the future.''
 On that score, adding the trans-Hudson rail tunnel -- two single-track tubes -- to the regional plan was painless. The plan was amended to include the tunnel, which would stretch from northern New Jersey to a terminal deep under West 34th Street in Manhattan, on the premise that its financing would come from New Jersey or Washington.
 New Jersey Transit, the project's sponsor, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey have pledged to find the money from state and federal sources. George D. Warrington, New Jersey Transit's executive director and a council member, said yesterday that he was ''deeply grateful'' for the council's action.
 The approval came despite objections from some transportation advocates who argued that burying New Jersey Transit and Long Island Rail Road platforms in ''deep caverns'' more than 100 feet below street level, as has been proposed, would be too expensive and dangerous.
 George Haikalis, who said he was the president of the Institute for Rational Urban Mobility, called for connecting the tracks through the proposed new tunnel to Pennsylvania Station and on to Grand Central Terminal. That plan would cost less, attract more commuters and save travel time, he said, but it has been rejected because it would require unprecedented cooperation among regional transportation officials.
 Mr. Suozzi asked the council's staff to prepare a rebuttal to the criticism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SUBURBS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%) Railroads; Bridges and Tunnels; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Metropolitan Transportation Council

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



356 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 735 words

PERSON: Anne Braden

HEADLINE: Anne Braden, 81, Activist in Civil Rights and Other Causes

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville. She was 81.
 No cause of death was announced, but Ms. Braden's biographer, Catherine Fosl, said she died after being admitted to a hospital with pneumonia and dehydration. Ms. Fosl's biography, ''Subversive Southerner: Anne Braden and the Struggle for Racial Justice in the Cold War South,'' was published in 2002 by Palgrave Macmillan. 
An advocate of racial and economic equality for more than half a century, Ms. Braden was one of the white Southerners singled out for praise by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in his celebrated ''Letter From Birmingham Jail'' in 1963. In 1985, she was among the founders of the National Rainbow Coalition, now the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. She also helped start the coalition's Kentucky chapter. 
 In May 1954, Ms. Braden and her husband, Carl, both white Kentuckians active in progressive politics, bought a house in a segregated Louisville suburb on behalf of a black associate, Andrew Wade IV, and his family. In June, the house was dynamited. (No one was injured in the explosion, and the bomber was never caught.)
 In October, in a case that attracted nationwide attention, the Bradens and five other whites were indicted on charges of sedition in connection with the blast. The state said the Bradens, who were believed to be associated with the Communist Party, had intended to incite unrest with their purchase of the house. 
 Carl Braden was convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison, but he served just over seven months before the verdict was overturned in 1956. Anne Braden's case never went to trial.
 Ms. Braden's account of the case, ''The Wall Between,'' was a finalist for a National Book Award in 1959. In 1999, the University of Tennessee Press published the book in a new edition, with a foreword by Julian Bond. 
 Anne Gambrell McCarty was born in Louisville on July 28, 1924. Her father was a feed salesman, and Anne grew up in Anniston, Ala., where his job took the family. The household was traditional, middle-class and thoroughly invested in the status quo.
 ''The parents were so much like your average white Southerner of that generation,'' Ms. Fosl, a historian at the University of Louisville, said last week in a telephone interview. ''They were just very accepting of Southern racial politics.''
 In 1954, Anne earned a bachelor's degree in English from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., and embarked on a career as a journalist. After stints on Alabama papers, she took a job with The Louisville Times. There, she met Carl Braden, a fellow reporter who was active in progressive politics. They were married in 1948.
 Ms. Braden, who had begun to embrace liberal humanist ideas as a teenager, joined her husband in politics. Together, they worked on Henry Wallace's campaign for the presidency on the Progressive Party ticket in 1948. In 1957, the couple joined the staff of the Southern Conference Educational Fund, a civil rights organization. Ms. Braden edited its newspaper, The Southern Patriot, until 1974. 
 The Bradens were repeatedly accused of being Communists, and, in 1958, Carl Braden was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee in Atlanta. Refusing to testify, he was sentenced to a year in prison. Dr. King led the drive for clemency, and Mr. Braden was released in 1962, after serving nine months. Throughout her life, Ms. Braden publicly declined to confirm or deny their membership in the Communist Party. 
 In 1967, the Bradens were again indicted on charges of sedition, for helping to organize a protest against strip mining in eastern Kentucky. That year, in connection with the case, a federal court in Lexington declared the state's antisedition law unconstitutional. 
 Mr. Braden died in 1975. 
 Ms. Braden is survived by a son, James, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Elizabeth, of Austin, Tex. Another daughter, Anita, died in childhood.
 In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University. In 1990, she was the first recipient of the Roger Baldwin Medal of Liberty from the American Civil Liberties Union, awarded for her lifetime contribution to civil liberties.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Friday about Anne Braden, a civil rights activist of the 1950's, misstated the year of her graduation from Randolph-Macon. It was 1945, not 1954.
An obituary on Friday about Anne Braden, a civil rights activist of the 1950's, misstated the year of her graduation from Randolph-Macon. It was 1945, not 1954.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Braden (Photo by James Wallace/Louisville Courier-Journal, 1999)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); FAMILY (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); HISTORY (75%); SENTENCING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); VERDICTS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); PNEUMONIA (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (56%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (95%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



357 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: France Weighs Forcing iPods to Play Other Than iTunes 

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

DATELINE: PARIS, March 16 

 BODY:
In the digital music market, France is singing a different tune. 
 A bill under debate in the French Parliament may require iPods to be able to play music purchased from competing Internet services, not just Apple Computer's own iTunes Music Store, forcing changes in the business model that gave rise to the revolution in legal digital music downloads.
The outcome of the debate, which began as an update to French copyright law, is far from clear. But taken to one logical conclusion, amendments to the copyright bill could lead Apple, the market leader, to leave the French music business, said Jonathan Arber, a research analyst in London at the technology consultancy Ovum. 
 ''My gut feeling is that Apple will simply pull out of France if these amendments get through,'' Mr. Arber said. ''Weighed against breaking their business model for all markets, it doesn't make sense for Apple to continue operating with the iPod and iTunes in France.'' 
 Debate lasted late into Thursday night; a vote in the National Assembly is set for next week. The bill, which also proposes to turn individual digital piracy into a violation no more serious than a parking ticket, would go next to the Senate, where it is unlikely to be altered significantly, political analysts say. 
 Some critics say the plan is technically unworkable, unfairly undermines Apple and opens the door to more piracy by crippling technology that protects copyrights. Supporters see France setting a long-overdue legal precedent that opens Apple's closed iPod-iTunes digital music system to competition. 
 Apple would not comment on the legislation. Led by Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, Apple persuaded the world's major record labels in 2003 to sell songs over the Internet at 99 cents each through the iTunes Music Store. 
 But the price of making it inexpensive, easy and attractive for consumers to buy online -- rather than sharing songs on the Internet without compensating record companies or musicians -- was the use of Apple's proprietary formats, making song buyers beholden to Apple and its players, which account for more than 70 percent of all devices sold. 
 The broad backing of Apple by music industry executives has turned into public and private griping over the company's control over the price of iTunes downloads and the domination of the highly profitable iPod, at what they see as the industry's expense. 
 The amendments proposed by the government, tacked onto what is being called the author's rights law, originate in part from a European view of the economy that makes it more acceptable there than in the United States for governments to order competition in the marketplace for the benefit of consumers.
 Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, the minister of culture, told the Paris newspaper Liberation, ''I want to give the Internet world and the cultural industries a secure legal structure to permit a real development -- or even explosion -- of online cultural offerings.'' He added, ''Everyone will be able to choose.''
 France is the third-largest digital music market in Europe, after Britain and Germany, according to GfK, a market research company based in Nuremberg, Germany. Downloads in France last year totaled 20 million songs worth $23.3 million, while 4.7 million digital music players were sold, the company said. 
 As of Thursday, the copyright bill still had more than 400 amendments, many of them having to do with how devices interoperate. The most prominently affected device would be the iPod, but Sony's Walkman digital music players operate on a similar principle. In both cases, purchased online music can be transferred to the hardware only from a site owned by the same company -- the iTunes Music Store for iPods and Sony Connect for the Walkman. Sony declined to comment. 
 The development is especially rich in irony for Microsoft, a target of European antitrust action, which licenses its digital music format, called WMA, to any company willing to pay for it. Most non-Apple digital music players, like those produced by Samsung, Creative and Archos, allow WMA songs, while most online music merchants, like Rhapsody from RealNetworks, Music Now from America Online and Napster, sell songs in that format. 
 But technically, the French government's aim of making music playable on all digital devices is challenging at the least, said Mark MacGann, director general of the European Information and Communications Technology Industry Association, a trade group in Brussels whose members include Apple, Microsoft and Sony. 
 In addition, the cross-border implications are enormous, he said. ''Governments cannot operate in a technology policy vacuum with a global industry,'' he added, saying that decisions should be made at least on a European level. ''You cannot decide overnight to create a nirvana.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about a British trademark suit against Apple Computer referred imprecisely to the ability of the Apple iPod to play tunes from online music stores other than Apple's, an issue in a French political debate. (The error also occurred on March 17 in an article about the French debate.) While Apple's music store makes tunes available in a proprietary format, iPods can play music purchased at certain other stores, usually in MP3 format.
An article in Business Day on Thursday about a British trademark suit against Apple Computer referred imprecisely to the ability of the Apple iPod to play tunes from online music stores other than Apple's, an issue in a French political debate. (The error also occurred on March 17 in an article about the French debate.) While Apple's music store makes tunes available in a proprietary format, iPods can play music purchased at certain other stores, usually in MP3 format.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); ONLINE PIRACY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PARKING OFFENSES (66%); WRITERS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (55%) Music; Law and Legislation; Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Copyrights

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Computer Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%) Thomas Crampton

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



358 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Skeptical of Claims Of a Large Mexican Oil Find

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 16 

 BODY:
Analysts say they are skeptical of news this week from the Mexican state oil monopoly that exploratory drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico shows signs of a giant new oil field. 
 Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, says that early indications suggest that the field could be as large as 10 billion barrels. But analysts said that it was premature to make an estimate based on preliminary drilling.
''To me it's entirely speculative and hypothetical,'' said David Shields, an oil analyst and consultant in Mexico City.
 Even if further testing confirms that there is a significant deepwater find, the company has neither the money nor the expertise to exploit it. Mexico's oil industry, long a symbol of national sovereignty, is essentially closed to outside investment. 
 On Saturday, Mexico will celebrate the 68th anniversary of the day it took over its oil industry from foreign companies. As Mexico has opened the rest of its economy, energy remains untouched.
 Analysts suggested that President Vicente Fox may have rushed announcing the find in a new attempt to prod Congress into opening up the industry. 
 ''This is part of an overall lobbying effort from the administration,'' said Jaime Brito, an analyst at PFC Energy in Washington and a former Pemex executive.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Fox and Luis Ramirez Corzo, Pemex's director general, flew about 60 miles offshore to the exploratory well to announce the discovery. Mr. Ramirez Corzo said, ''We recognize that we need to establish new mechanisms of collaboration with other oil companies who have experience in deep water.'' 
 Pemex officials warned that its figures on the discovery were preliminary. In its official report of reserves, published Thursday, the company said it was possible to infer that the new reserves could reach 10 billion barrels.
 In a news conference Thursday, Mr. Ramirez Corzo said it would take at least two years before Pemex would have enough information on the field to estimate the investment it would need to produce oil, The Associated Press reported. 
 Pemex needs to make new discoveries if it is to keep up its role as a major oil producer and replace declining reserves. Its main oil field, Cantarell, has begun to decline. The company estimates that production there will fall by 6 percent this year, and the decline is projected to accelerate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL EXPLORATION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATION (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Reserves (Natural Resources); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (89%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006



359 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Trading the Hummer for a Honda

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 17 

 BODY:
For Janna Jensen, it was the dirty looks and nasty gestures from other drivers that finally persuaded her to give up the family's $55,000 Hummer H2. Her husband, Michael, meanwhile, was tired of the $300 monthly gasoline cost and the quality problems that began soon after they bought it.
 So the Jensens of Reno, Nev., dumped the sport utility vehicle this year for a more modest Honda Element, still an S.U.V. but one with better gasoline mileage and a lower profile than the H2. And they are not alone.
Luxury sport utilities are becoming decidedly less cool than just three years ago, when they were the hottest things on wheels and dealers had long waiting lists for the most popular models. 
 On top of the sales drop that has hurt all sport utilities, fewer than half the people who bought luxury S.U.V.'s are going back for another one. Incentives for the vehicles are at record levels and for the first time, luxury automakers are paying out more for rebates and lease deals to entice consumers to buy luxury S.U.V.'s than to buy cars.
 The higher cost of gasoline plays a big role, as it has for the last year of high oil prices. But wealthy buyers, who used to shrug off the expense, are shifting gears, as excessive energy consumption is becoming socially embarrassing.
 David Katz, who owns an interior design firm in Seattle, traded in his 1999 Ford Explorer last year to help buy a Lexus 400H, the hybrid-electric version of the RX sport utility. ''I was sitting at my desk, ruminating about the crisis in the Middle East and what I could do personally to use less fuel,'' Mr. Katz said.
 Dub magazine, a specialty publication aimed at car enthusiasts, remains packed each month with images of customized cars, including celebrities' wheels. But now, its editors are seeing that trend setters, especially those who have families, are trying to appear as if they are environmentally aware.
 ''Everyone is concerned with giving back,'' said Myles Kovacs, the magazine's editor.
 In February, average incentives on luxury sport utility vehicles hit $4,046, or nearly $1,500 a vehicle more than what automakers doled out on luxury cars, according to Autodata Inc., a Woodcliff, N.J., company that tracks industry statistics. That is also more than four times what automakers paid as incentives on luxury S.U.V.'s in 2003.
 Moreover, about 53 percent of luxury S.U.V. owners who have traded in their models in the months since November did not purchase another luxury S.U.V., according to the Power Information Network, a branch of the consumer-marketing company J. D. Power & Associates.
 Of that group, two-fifths went back to cars, while others bought smaller or less-expensive S.U.V.'s and some purchased pickup trucks. Ron Pinelli, the president of Autodata, said, ''Cool has a short shelf life.''
 To be sure, luxury sport utilities are not going away, and Cadillac, Lincoln and Mercedes-Benz all have new high-ticket models coming out the next few months. But the waiting lists that many dealers came to expect for the industry's plushest vehicles -- which typically start at $35,000 -- have largely evaporated, along with their buzz. 
 Auto companies have always had to pile on the rebates to persuade customers to drive away stale car models, while the fresh models with unique features typically sell briskly with few if any incentives. Now the same thing is happening with luxury S.U.V.'s.
 A case in point is the Cadillac Escalade. General Motors is offering thousands of dollars in incentives to clear out 2006 models. At the same time, dealers are beginning to get deliveries of the 2007 Escalade, part of a new family of S.U.V.'s that G.M. is counting on to reverse its market share slide.
 On Wednesday, G.M. said that it was stepping up production of its new line because of a strong early response for the vehicle.
 The new vehicles are a welcome sight for Tom Westwood, the general manager of Tustin Cadillac in Southern California. Mr. Westwood had to discount his 2006 Escalades by an average $11,000 to entice customers to take them.
 The newest versions, however, are selling close to their $60,000 retail price, he said, and selling them is like ''shooting fish in a barrel.'' 
 Mr. Westwood continued: ''We don't have an opportunity to make money in the car business very often, but this is one of them. And I know it probably won't last all that long.''
 As recently as 2003, auto companies routinely earned profits of $15,000 and more on each big luxury S.U.V., a lure that also drew automakers from Japan and Europe into the marketplace. Even brands that were better known for their cars, like Volvo, Saab and Porsche, introduced luxury sport utilities, all aiming for the big money.
 ''It was a whole different dynamic then,'' said George Pipas, the corporate sales analyst at Ford. ''There were fewer competitors, and the demand in this category was rising faster than the category was.''
 But now, with buyers having second thoughts, it is taking longer to sell luxury S.U.V.'s, which spent an estimated 58 days on a dealer's lot from January through March, compared with 51 days during the first quarter of 2005, according to Power's statistics. All that reflects buyers' disdain for anything less than the next new thing, said Wesley Brown, a partner with Iceology, a Los Angeles firm that follows automotive trends. 
 Given that luxury S.U.V. buyers rarely use their vehicles off highways and city streets, ''there's absolutely no reason to drive it except that it's cool to drive,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 ''A lot of those people have had enough, so they're getting out of it.''
 To hang onto those customers, Mr. Brown said, auto companies must create something that makes buyers say ''I have to have it.'' 
 Sales numbers for 2005 show the best sellers in the luxury S.U.V. category were for models introduced during the year. 
 One was the redesigned Mercedes M-Class. Because of the interest in the fresh model, which went on sale last April as a 2006 model, M-Class sales rose 15 percent during 2005.
 With the newest M-Class, engineers aimed for the handling characteristics of Mercedes luxury cars, said Dave Larsen, the product manager in charge of the M-Class.
 Previous M-class models, which first hit the market in 1998, had a ride that was decidedly trucklike, a common trait of the first crop of luxury S.U.V.'s, which were based on the underpinnings of pickup trucks. Mercedes customers, used to fewer jolts, insisted on something more comfortable.
 ''The feedback we were getting was that they wanted something more luxurious,'' Mr. Larsen said. Thus, Mercedes developed a vehicle with plenty of extras, like electronic seats, a multiposition steering wheel, and a new 3.5-liter engine with 260 horsepower. The new M-Class gets 10 percent better fuel economy than its predecessor and is 10 percent lighter. 
 Incentives, however, definitely are not lighter. In February, Mercedes' incentives were $4,278 for each M-Class, more than the average for luxury S.U.V.'s. Those big incentives are a reason Mr. Larsen's development team vowed that ''we needed to nail the price and nail the features, and then incentives take care of themselves,'' he said.
 Mercedes' next luxury S.U.V. effort will be the G-Class, a full-size S.U.V. that will make its debut this spring. A few months later, Lincoln will come out with its latest version of the Escalade while Lexus is preparing a new version of its big LX sport utility. 
 Those vehicles might seem like risky bets, given the unfriendly atmosphere for luxury S.U.V.'s. But despite buyers' growing aversion and rising incentives, Mr. Pipas at Ford said he did notexpect manufacturers to be discouraged, especially when vehicles like the M-Class prove customers can still be captured.
 ''My guess is that everyone who is in it will be in it,'' he said. ''With the price that you charge for them, even with incentives, there's money to be made.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about a loss of cachet for luxury sport utility vehicles misidentified the full-size S.U.V. made by Lincoln. It is the Navigator; the Escalade is made by Cadillac.
An article in Business Day on Saturday about a loss of cachet for luxury sport utility vehicles misidentified the full-size S.U.V. made by Lincoln. It is the Navigator; the Escalade is made by Cadillac.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Five-figure rebates on luxury sport utility vehicles, like this one on a 2006 Cadillac Escalade, are becoming more common. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Crown Cadillac in Dublin, Calif., is using deep discounts on the Escalade to lure potential customers and clear out space for 2007 models. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''It Costs More to Sell American''Lincoln and Cadillac offer the largest incentives while the more popular Acura and Lexus offer the smallest. Some brands like Mercedes have a large range.Lincoln: $8,446Cadillac: 5,331Saab: 4,881Mercedes: 4,278Volvo: 4,019BMW: 3,943Infiniti: 2,870Acura: 1,967Lexus: 675Average Incentive: 4,046(Source by MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Big Vehicles, Big Incentives''Incentives for luxury S.U.V.'s are now greater than those for luxury cars.2005 AVERAGE MANUFACTURER'S CASH INCENTIVESGraph tracks 2005 average manufacturer's cash incentives for luxury trucks and luxury cars.(Source by MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GASOLINE (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); SALES FIGURES (74%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (64%); STATISTICS (61%); INTERIOR DECORATING (50%) Automobiles; Sales; Renting and Leasing; Rebates ; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Records and Achievements; Consumer Behavior; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobiles

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp; Lincoln Division of Ford Motor Co; Mercedes-Benz

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) NEVADA, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (88%); MIDDLE EAST (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



360 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Telling You So, Again

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL. 
E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SOON after the dot-com bubble burst, it became fashionable to say there had been only a few voices in the wilderness warning of the doom that lay ahead, as most of the country stampeded to certain financial ruin. In reality, warnings were issued all the time; they just went unheeded.
 Still, more people (or at least, more dollars) were wrong than were right, so it's no crime for those who were right to feel a little superior. The site iTulip.com, which was restarted this week after a three-year hiatus, does not hesitate to claim credit for accurately predicting that the bubble would pop. It even got the timing right. 
For the most part, iTulip is pretty much as it was when it shut down, though with some added features. It even looks as if it were designed in 1998, the year the original site started.
 One big change, though, is that it is not nearly so funny. The original was meant as a parody of dot-com cheerleaders (with sections called Know Your Mania and Depression). The new site, run by Eric Janszen, a technology executive, is far more serious, even grim.
 At the site's beginnings, ''the stock market bubble was in full swing,'' Mr. Janszen wrote, mixing metaphors as he reintroduced it this week. ''ITulip.com, and few others, were warning visitors not to put their retirement money in the speculative bubble that the U.S. stock market had become. Cramer was ranting on CNBC about the latest dot-com 'can't lose' stock. We warned that the stock market was due to crash, most likely by the first or second quarter of 2000. It did.'' 
 The site owns up to having missed the real estate bubble, which, it says, ''has really kept the U.S. out of poorhouse, if only until now.''
 ''Not only did we fail to predict the housing bubble as the Fed's answer to the stock market bubble collapse, we argued that the Fed would never allow one to develop. Wrong.''
 Despite the retro design, the site has features not there in its first incarnation, including discussion boards and a bloglike news section. It still watches the stock market, which Mr. Janszen says is flat or, given inflation, down considerably.
 But that will probably not keep James Cramer, the frenzied analyst, ''from returning to CNBC to rant and throw chairs around while touting the latest 'can't lose' stocks,'' Mr. Janszen wrote.
 FASHION BACKWARD? -- ''The open and accepted practice of fashion designers 'paying homage' to the designs of others isn't seen as unpunished piracy, but rather as part of the normal creative flow upon which design itself thrives,'' writes Henry Lanman in Slate this week.
 That may end as the industry presses Congress to expand a law on copyrights for boat hulls -- yes, boat hulls -- to clothing designs.
 Mr. Lanman sympathizes with designers who send actresses down the red carpet clad in their latest creations, only to see copies in Fifth Avenue windows shortly thereafter. 
 ''But by making this calculation,'' he writes, the industry ''seems to have demonstrated that fashion may not have been blazing its own trail by showing how a creative industry can work in a relaxed intellectual property regime. Rather, it simply may have been the last creative business to get onto the bus to Lawyerville.''
 THE GREAT DEBATE -- Who is worse -- smug, control-freak I.T. managers, or clueless, careless corporate computer users? A debate on Slashdot sheds both heat and light on the question.
 ''Calling I.T. when you forget your password for the fifth time that month or with some dumb question because you are too lazy to crack open a manual is no better than stealing office supplies or equipment,'' writes one I.T. manager. ''It's all just stealing resources.''
 MARKET MOVEMENTS -- A new CD, ''Playing the Market,'' features music ''based on patterns found in the stock market, economic indicators and related algorithms,'' according to the promotional copy at playingthemarket.com. Cuts include ''National Debt'' and ''Long Bond.'' 
 At strangenewproducts.com, one anonymous writer asks, ''Has everyone run out of ideas of good music?'' DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Apparel; Design; Copyrights; Law and Legislation ; Music; Stocks and Bonds; Compact Discs; United States Economy; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: iTulip.com; Slate (On-Line Magazine); Slashdot.com; Strangenewproducts (Web Site)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (50%) Henry Lanman; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



361 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Setting a Dubious Record, Again, but Still Not Out of Line

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE balance-of-payments deficit in the United States set another record in the fourth quarter, as it rose to 7 percent of the gross domestic product. 
 That means, as Greg Jensen of Bridgewater Associates put it, ''that the U.S. consumes 7 percent more than it produces.'' Mr. Jensen said the pressure from that made it much more likely that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates. 
Lots of people, Alan Greenspan among them, warned that such deficits were unsustainable when they were far lower, and time might prove them right.
 But a global look at balance-of-payments surpluses and deficits shows that the United States does not have the largest deficit, trailing countries like Spain, Greece and New Zealand. Australia's deficit was above 7 percent a year ago and is still over 6 percent.
 They are part of a trend toward larger imbalances, which may be a sign that although global trade continues to grow, the strains are also increasing. The Japanese surplus hit a 19-year high of 4 percent of G.D.P. in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 Chinese numbers are not as readily available, and some question their accuracy. But it is clear that China's balance-of-payments surplus -- including not only trade but also earnings on foreign investments and transfers between countries -- is rising. 
 China's strong competitive position is even beginning to hurt areas that have done well. In Britain, deficits declined early in this decade but rose last year to their highest level since 2000.
 The euro area -- countries that use the euro as their currency -- ran a surplus for 15 consecutive quarters, but has shown small deficits the last two. Surpluses in Germany and the Netherlands, which had buoyed the area, slipped in late 2005, and deficits grew in France and Italy.
 To those who are alarmed about the trend, the history of 1997 and 1998 sets a disturbing precedent. Thailand and the Philippines had been running current-account deficits larger than the one the United States now runs. When the crisis hit, the currencies plunged.
 As the chart shows, Thailand's balance-of-payments deficit immediately turned to an even larger surplus -- both because the country had difficulty borrowing to buy anything and because the drop of almost 50 percent in the value of the Thai baht made Thai exports more competitive.
 Now many Asian countries are seeing their balance-of-payments surpluses decline as China takes markets away from them. Thailand is again running deficits, as is India, and South Korea's surpluses have shrunk.
 It is up to China to decide whether it will allow substantial appreciation of its currency. Until it does, its competitive position seems likely to remain very strong. 
 It is certainly possible that the dollar will fall in coming years, but an abrupt decline of the Thai variety seems unlikely. Thailand had borrowed dollars and found it could not pay them back when lenders grew nervous. Unlike the United States, which also borrows dollars from around the world, it did not have a dollar printing press.


GRAPHIC: ChartThe United States balance-of-payments deficit is large, but far from the largest . . .. . . Japan's surplus is growing, Germany's is high . . .. . . while France and Britain also run deficits.Graph tracks balance of payments as a percentage of gross domestic product, quarterly for the following countries since 1997:JAPANGERMANYFRANCEUNITED STATESSPAINNEW ZEALANDBRITAINIn 1997, a crisis brought quick adjustment.Thai baht change in value since Dec. 31, '93Graph tracks Thailand balance of payments as a percentage of gross domestic product, quarterly since 1994.(Sources by Haver Analytics
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TRENDS (89%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (56%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (94%); CHINA (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GREECE (71%); NETHERLANDS (68%) Spain; Greece; New Zealand; Australia; China; Great Britain; Europe; Germany; Netherlands ; France; Italy; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Thailand; India; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



362 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Utilities Led February Gain In Production 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Industrial output grew in February but mainly because of a weather-related increase in utility demand, according to a report released yesterday, while consumer sentiment plateaued this month at levels seen during the last economic downturn. 
 Cold weather in February increased overall output at industrial operations 0.7 percent, the Federal Reserve said yesterday, in line with forecasts and up from a downwardly revised 0.3 percent drop in January.
 ''The swing is mostly explained by utility production, which was down sharply in January and has to do with the weather patterns,'' said Lea Tyler, economist at Oxford Economics USA.
 The month was the warmest January in more than a century, while February was seasonably cold in much of the country, prompting unusual volatility in data ranging from retail sales to manufacturing.
 Utility production rebounded 7.9 percent as weather moved closer to seasonal norms after January's balmy temperatures.
 But warming temperatures this month apparently failed to lift consumer sentiment. The University of Michigan's confidence index held steady at 86.7 in mid-March, which was below analysts' median forecast of 88.0 and led the stock market to pare earlier gains.
 Historically, such a reading was unimpressive, analysts said. It was still 10 points below its level before Hurricane Katrina forced a huge spike in gasoline prices and resulted in a huge slump in sentiment.
 Moreover, it remained below its level in April 2001, when the economy was entering its last recession.
 Still, analysts noted there was a tenuous relationship between confidence and spending, and that an expected slowdown in consumer spending probably would not take place until later this year.
 ''It is unclear if things are slowing down or speeding up, given all the volatility we've had in weather and oil prices,'' said Kurt Karl, head of economic research at Swiss Re in New York.
 At factories, capacity utilization -- a measure of how close to full potential industry, mines and utilities are running -- rose slightly less than expected to 81.2 percent. That was a return to December's capacity use rate, which was the highest since September 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); WEATHER (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); RETAIL SALES (54%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%) United States Economy; Production; Factories and Industrial Plants; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; University of Michigan

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



363 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: That Other Madness This Month: Mergers

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
MARCH madness is not limited to college basketball. Billions of dollars in mergers were announced this week, building on the momentum created when AT&T offered to acquire BellSouth for $67 billion earlier in the month.
The trend even swept up entire stock exchanges, as the Nasdaq Stock Market offered to buy the London Stock Exchange (just as the New York Stock Exchange was weighing a bid of its own), and Euronext, the owner of the Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon stock markets, said it was interested in buying Deutsche Borse, the German exchange.

BUT FIRST, A CORRECTION -- Just as investors may have been recovering from General Motors' $8.6 billion loss last year, the company stepped up to say the loss was actually $10.6 billion. It said the added losses more accurately reflected the costs of scaling back its North American operations and of helping its former parts subsidiary, Delphi, restructure while in bankruptcy protection. 
 G.M. said it would also restate five years of results and delay filing its annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission while it looks into accounting irregularities at its residential mortgage unit.

CHARGE! -- Eager to further diversify its business amid rising interest rates and slowing growth for credit card issuers, Capital One Financial, the big credit card company, agreed to buy the North Fork Bancorporation, a regional bank serving the Northeast, for about $14.6 billion in cash and stock.
 After its acquisition last fall of the Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans, Capital One would have deposits of more than $84 billion when its North Fork acquisition is completed. It would have more than 50 million customer accounts and 655 branches from White Plains to Brownsville, Tex.
 Credit card companies are looking for new ways of financing the debt accumulated by their customers. In the past, card issuers repackaged the debt into bonds. Teaming up with banks also lets them use relatively inexpensive bank deposits to finance card debt.

HEADLINE NEWS -- The McClatchy Company, a California newspaper publisher, won a one-bid auction for Knight Ridder, offering $4.5 billion in cash and stock for its 32 newspapers, including The Miami Herald, The Star-Telegram of Fort Worth and The Charlotte Observer in North Carolina.
 To help finance the deal and head off some antitrust concerns, McClatchy, which is based in Sacramento, immediately put 12 of the papers back up for sale. Among those it plans to sell are The Mercury News in San Jose, Calif., Knight Ridder's hometown; The Akron Beacon Journal in Ohio, which was the first in the chain; and both papers in Philadelphia, The Inquirer and The Daily News.
 Gary Pruitt, the chief executive of McClatchy, which already owned The Star Tribune in Minneapolis, The Sacramento Bee and The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C., said he hoped he could complete both the acquisition and the sale this summer. 

DRUG DEAL -- Even some Europeans got carried away by merger furor: Merck of Germany made a hostile $17.7 billion bid for Schering of Germany, the largest maker of oral contraceptives. The businesses are unaffiliated with similarly named American companies: Merck & Company and Schering-Plough.
 A combination of Merck and Schering would create the second-largest drug maker in Germany after Bayer, with annual sales of $13 billion. Midsize pharmaceutical companies are under pressure to buy one another as generics makers eat away at their profit margins and the cost of discovering and developing new drugs rises.
 Schering's board rejected the Merck offer, but it may be persuaded by a higher price from a bigger company, including Novartis of Switzerland or GlaxoSmithKline of Britain.

TAX FIRM SUED -- The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, sued H&R Block, the nation's largest tax-preparation service, accusing it of selling retirement-savings plans without disclosing that investors would probably earn less from the plans than they would pay in fees.
 Last month, the California attorney general, Bill Lockyer, accused Block of illegally promoting high-cost loans as ''instant'' tax refunds. The company agreed last year to pay $62.5 million to settle four class-action lawsuits over those refund-anticipation loans.
 Perhaps even more embarrassing for the company, Block has said it will need to restate profits for two years because it understated its 2004 state tax liabilities by millions of dollars.
 Despite these issues, federal banking regulators have approved H&R Block's plan to start its own savings bank later this year.

DELAY OF GAME -- In an embarrassing development, Sony pushed back the introduction of its PlayStation 3 video game console to November -- months after it originally planned to start selling the consoles and almost a full year after its chief rival, Microsoft, was able to put its latest hardware into stores.
 Sony is counting on PlayStation 3 to showcase two new technologies: the Blu-ray high-definition DVD format and the Cell processing chip. Sony had hoped the new PlayStation would help spread the use of the Blu-ray format, which is in a separate battle with a Toshiba technology to become the global standard for next-generation DVD's.
 Analysts said Sony would probably try to sell PlayStation 3 for about $500. While that is $100 more than the Microsoft Xbox 360, they said it was probably much less than the actual building cost.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most-viewed business news articles on nytimes.com from March 11 through March 17:
1. A Cancer Drug's Big Price Rise Is Cause for Concern
2. Many Utilities Collect for Taxes They Never Pay
3. As Internet TV Aims at Niche Audiences, the Slivercast Is Born
4. TV Stations Fined Over CBS Show Deemed to Be Indecent
5. Surgical Device Poses a Rare but Serious Peril

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The McClatchy Company will buy, and quickly sell, The San Jose Mercury News. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (87%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); TRENDS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); LITIGATION (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); ETHICS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); SECURITIES LAW (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Automobiles; Banks and Banking; Stocks and Bonds; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Newspapers; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Computer and Video Games; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (95%); MCCLATCHY CO (82%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SACRAMENTO BEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Nasdaq Stock Market; London Stock Exchange; Euronext; Deutsche Borse Ag; General Motors Corp; Capital One Financial Corp; North Fork Bancorp Inc; Mcclatchy Co; Knight Ridder; Merck (German Co); Schering Ag; Block, H&r, Inc; Sony Corp; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (95%); MNI (NYSE) (82%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (50%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (53%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (52%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); FRANCE (57%) Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



364 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Rising Factory Output and Lower Oil Prices Aid Rally

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Lower oil prices and a rebound in manufacturing activity helped Wall Street extend its rally yesterday, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to five-year highs for the fourth straight session. 
 The major indexes each gained about 2 percent for the week. 
 Investors cheered a Federal Reserve report that the nation's industrial production grew 0.7 percent in February after sliding 0.3 percent the month before, with the onset of cold weather driving an upswing in utilities output. 
 The promising economic report overshadowed downbeat earnings news from General Motors, which said its 2005 loss was $2 billion more than originally reported. The Insurance company American International Group also posted a steep drop in profit from settling regulatory charges. 
 But stocks' gains were limited as the day's headlines did little to address Wall Street's persistent worries about inflation and more interest rate increases from the Fed, said Ken Tower, chief market strategist for Schwab's CyberTrader. 
 ''I think the question the market is struggling with is whether we are concerned about inflation and too strong an economy, or if the Fed is raising interest rates too much and cooling things off,'' Mr. Tower said. ''So we have a little pause in the market today as it tries to work this question out.'' 
 At the close of trading, the Dow climbed 26.41, or 0.23 percent, to 11,279.65, its highest level since reaching 11,301.74 on May 21, 2001. 
 Broader stock indicators also gained ground. The S.& P. 500 index rose 1.92, or 0.15 percent, to 1,307.25 its highest close since it reached 1,309.38 on May 22, 2001, and the Nasdaq composite index added 6.92, or 0.3 percent, to 2,306.48. 
 Bonds cooled after the rally earlier in the week's rally, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note edging up to 4.67 percent from 4.64 percent and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, falling 6/32, to 9821/32. The dollar was mostly higher against most major currencies, and gold prices inched upward. 
 Trading was volatile amid sharply higher volume as four types of options and futures contracts expired. 
 Crude oil futures pulled back from this week's gains after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries cut its projected global demand by 110,000 barrels a day. A barrel of light crude oil fell 81 cents, to settle at $62.77, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 The market also weighed a mixed assessment of consumers from the University of Michigan. Its consumer-sentiment index for March came in at 86.7, unchanged from February but below economists' prediction of 88. 
 Yesterday's advance left the major indexes with sturdy gains this week as traders showed optimism about recent economic data on inflation, housing and retail sales. For the week, the Dow rose 1.84 percent, the S.&P. 500 gained 2 percent and the Nasdaq ended 1.96 percent higher. 
 But with few reports to guide it next week, Wall Street will probably focus on energy prices and any clues from companies about their first-quarter results, said Michael Sheldon, chief investment strategist for Spencer Clarke. 
 ''One thing worth noting is that we saw several positive preannouncements from economically sensitive companies,'' like DuPont and Union Pacific, Mr. Sheldon said. 
 G.M. rattled auto investors with news that its exposure to Delphi's bankruptcy could be 56 percent more than originally estimated, and that costs to cover plant closings would be $500 million more. The company revised its 2005 loss to $10.6 billion, up $2 billion from its earlier estimate. G.M. shares fell $1.09, to $21.13. 
 A.I.G.'s quarterly profit was a fourth of its year-earlier earnings as it took more than $2 billion in charges to cover a settlement with state and federal regulators. Damage from last year's hurricanes also hurt its results, the company said. A.I.G. dropped 42 cents, to $68.82. 
 The entertainment company Viacom is selling the film library of its recently acquired DreamWorks SKG, the maker of blockbuster hits like ''Gladiator'' and ''Saving Private Ryan,'' for $900 million. Viacom rose 60 cents, to $38.97. 
 The Internet search firm Google expects its 2006 capital expenditures to be significantly greater than the $838.2 million it spent last year, the company said in a regulatory document filed Thursday. Google added $1.02, to $339.79.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FUTURES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



365 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Rejects Silverstein's Offer to Talk

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Nobody was calling the latest overtures negotiations yesterday, but it looked as if the stalled talks over financing and rebuilding at ground zero could resume next week, at least by mail if not face to face.
 The Port Authority rejected a new offer yesterday from the developer Larry A. Silverstein to revive the negotiations and said it would unveil its own proposal for the site next week.
Talks between Mr. Silverstein, who controls the lease at ground zero, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the land, abruptly broke off late Tuesday night. The developer had submitted what state officials and Port Authority executives said was a one-sided counterproposal that shifted all the development risks onto the authority, while guaranteeing Mr. Silverstein a profit. 
 Eager to restart the talks, Mr. Silverstein sent the Port Authority a new proposal yesterday that he had hoped would lead both sides back to the bargaining table. While it may not contain some of the most unacceptable provisions of the old proposal, Port Authority officials said that the overture did not amount to a starting point for a new agreement.
 ''Silverstein Properties has attempted to provide a revision to their proposal of last Tuesday night,'' wrote the Port Authority in a tersely worded statement released yesterday evening. ''However, many aspects remain unacceptable. Port Authority staff will develop a counterproposal that we believe will work for both parties to get this deal done.''
 The Port Authority's response drew a rapid retort from the Silverstein camp.
 ''We're glad the Port Authority has finally decided to produce a counterproposal, which is what we've been asking for since they abruptly broke off talks on Tuesday night,'' said Bud Perrone, a spokesman for Mr. Silverstein. ''We hope it means that they are also prepared to return to the table without further needless delay.''
 The collapse of the negotiations, an embarrassment to both Mr. Silverstein and Gov. George E. Pataki, is only the latest problem to cast doubt over the future of the ground zero site. Fund-raising for the World Trade Center memorial is going slowly and critics have questioned whether the $2.3 billion Freedom Tower should be built. 
 The dispute between Mr. Silverstein and the Port Authority surfaced as state and city officials became concerned about the developer's ability to rebuild the entire site, at an estimated cost of more than $7 billion, when there is only $2.9 billion in insurance money available. Under Mr. Silverstein's lease at the trade center, he has both the right and the obligation to rebuild all the commercial space, at an estimated cost of more than $7 billion.
 As a result, state officials and Port Authority executives have sought to fashion a new arrangement at ground zero in which they split the site.
 Last Tuesday evening, the two sides appeared to be close to a deal in which the Port Authority would take control of building the Freedom Tower, the most symbolic and least economically viable of the five towers planned for the area. The authority would also have taken over a second building site at Greenwich and Cedar Streets, where the heavily damaged Deutsche Bank building stands. 
 Mr. Silverstein, in turn, would have retained what everyone regards as the most lucrative sites for three towers on Church Street, next to the $2 billion PATH terminal now under construction.
 But the talks foundered over a series of interrelated financial issues, including the allocation of $2.9 billion in insurance money; Mr. Silverstein's rent, which rises to $125.25 million in July; and his share of the infrastructure costs. Although the Silverstein camp insisted that the two sides were close, Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and the state's top economic development official, said they were about $1 billion apart on Tuesday night.
 But even if Mr. Silverstein adjusts the financial terms of his offer, it remains to be seen if the Port Authority, whose 12 commissioners are appointed by the governors of New York and New Jersey, will revisit the old deal. Some commissioners had agreed on Tuesday only after prodding by Governor Pataki's chief negotiator, John Cahill.
 At least two of the six New York commissioners considered the deal discussed last Tuesday to be overly generous to Mr. Silverstein.
 ''The majority of us, if not all, would prefer a buyout of his development rights,'' said a New York commissioner who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the board. 
 Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority, has expressed that he will not agree to a deal that enriches Mr. Silverstein, while leaving the authority with hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars in bills.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is of a similar view. ''I thought the deal the governor offered Larry Silverstein was a better deal than I would have offered, I'll tell you that,'' he said yesterday during his weekly radio show.
 The mayor, who has been a frequent critic of Mr. Silverstein, said that ultimately Governor Pataki, Governor John S. Corzine and the Port Authority will lay out a plan telling Mr. Silverstein, ''Look this is a fair deal; let's do this one, and Larry will agree.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (60%); CITIES (60%) World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Larry Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



366 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: JUDGES OVERTURN BUSH BID TO EASE POLLUTION RULES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17 

 BODY:
A federal appeals court on Friday overturned a clean-air regulation issued by the Bush administration that would have let many power plants, refineries and factories avoid installing costly new pollution controls to help offset any increased emissions caused by repairs and replacements of equipment.
 Ruling in favor of a coalition of states and environmental advocacy groups, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said the ''plain language'' of the law required a stricter approach. The court has primary jurisdiction in challenges to federal regulations. 
The ruling by a three-judge panel was the court's second decision in less than a year in a pair of closely related cases involving the administration's interpretations of a complex section of the Clean Air Act. Unlike its ruling last summer, when the court largely upheld the E.P.A.'s approach against challenges from industry, state governments and environmental groups, the new ruling was a defeat for the agency and for industry, and a victory for the states and their environmentalist allies.
 In the earlier case, a panel including two of the three judges who ruled on Friday decided that the agency had acted reasonably in 2002, when it issued a rule changing how pollution would be measured, effectively loosening the strictures on companies making changes to their equipment and operations. 
 But on Friday, the court said the agency went too far in 2003 when it issued a separate new rule that opponents said would exempt most equipment changes from environmental reviews -- even changes that would result in higher emissions.
 With a wry footnote to Lewis Carroll's ''Through the Looking Glass,'' the court said that ''only in a Humpty-Dumpty world'' could the law be read otherwise.
 ''We decline such a world view,'' said their unanimous decision, written by Judge Judith W. Rogers, an appointee of President Bill Clinton. Judges David Tatel, another Clinton appointee, and Janice Rogers Brown, a recent Bush appointee, joined her. 
 The winners this time --more than a dozen states, including New York and California and a large group of environmental organizations -- hailed the decision as one of their most important gains in years of litigation, regulation and legal challenges under the Clean Air Act.
 The provision of the law at issue, the ''new source review'' section, governs the permits required at more than 1,300 coal-fueled power plants around the country and 17,000 factories, refineries and chemical plants that spew millions of tons of pollution into the air each year.
 ''This is an enormous victory over the concerted efforts by the Bush administration to dismantle the Clean Air Act,'' Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, whose office led the opposition from the states, said in an interview.
 Mr. Spitzer, who is running for governor, said the ruling ''shows that the administration's effort to misinterpret and undermine the statute is illegal.''
 Howard Fox, a lawyer for Earth Justice, which represented six environmental and health groups in the case, called the ruling ''a victory for public health,'' adding, ''It makes no sense to allow huge multimillion-dollar projects that drastically increase air pollution without installing up-to-date pollution controls.''
 The E.P.A. issued only a brief statement, saying: ''We are disappointed that the court did not find in favor of the United States. We are reviewing and analyzing the opinion.''
 The decision is unlikely to be the last word; several circuit courts or appeals courts have considered or decided related cases, and the issue may eventually reach the Supreme Court. Some in Congress say the uncertainty demands an overhaul of the Clean Air Act itself, but there has been no real movement in that direction in recent years.
 The new ruling addressed the administration's effort in 2003 to offer relief to energy companies that faced costly settlements of litigation brought by President Clinton's E.P.A. The agency proposed exemptions for companies whenever upgrades to their equipment amounted to less than 20 percent of the replacement cost of the equipment. In effect, that made perennial repairs of old equipment a more attractive alternative in many cases than its outright replacement.
 Energy companies said the two rules the administration proposed in 2002 and 2003 would help them expand energy supplies at lower cost to consumers. But environmentalists said the change would result in just the kind of increased pollution that the law was intended to control.
 The Clean Air Act calls for companies to build plants with up-to-date control technologies, and the new source provision was a way to ensure that as time goes by, pollution controls must be modernized along with the plants themselves.
 Industry groups, which had challenged the first E.P.A. rule last year as not being flexible enough, were aligned with the agency this time. In general, they have been close partners with the Bush administration in environmental matters, pushing for greater economic considerations in the creation of any new policy. 
 The 20 percent threshold in the overturned rule would have enabled plant operators to make many repairs and upgrades without spending additional tens of millions of dollars for more advanced pollution controls. In settlements under the old rules, some companies faced costs of more than $100 million.
 ''This is a terrible decision,'' said Scott Segal, director of the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, a trade organization, arguing that the ''any physical change'' definition created financial instability for plant operators who spent as much as $800 million for a new boiler.
 He and other industry leaders expressed hope that the court ruling might induce Congress to pass new legislation that would include New Source Review, a step that he said would make it easier for plant operators to plan for their future upgrades and investments.
 John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, called the ruling ''a significant setback to business efficiency'' and environmental quality. 
 The government has 45 days to decide whether to seek a review of the ruling by the entire appeals court. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); JUDGES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%) Air Pollution; Electric Light and Power; Refineries; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Repair Services; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; States (US); Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: JUDITH W ROGERS (79%); DAVID S TATEL (79%); JANICE R BROWN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



367 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Politics Drives Senate's Money Binge

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17 

 BODY:
The largess demonstrated by the Senate in padding its budget with billions of dollars in additional spending this week showed that lawmakers are no different from many of their constituents: they don't mind pulling out the charge card when money is tight. 
 Just hours after opening a new line of credit through an increase in the federal debt limit, the Senate splurged on a bevy of popular programs before approving a spending plan that was as much a political document as an economic one, its fine print geared to the coming elections. 
Forced to choose between calls for renewed austerity and demands for more money, many Republicans joined Democrats in reaching deeper into the Treasury, leaving the party's push for new fiscal restraint in tatters.
 Some of their colleagues said it was an open-and-shut case of nervous politicians ducking a tough spending stance to avoid starring in negative campaign commercials. Republicans in some of this year's tightest races -- Conrad Burns of Montana, Mike DeWine of Ohio, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Jim Talent of Missouri and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island -- all backed the chief budget-busting provision as they endorsed an extra $7 billion for medical research, education and worker safety.
 Lawmakers, analysts and others said the Senate's reluctance to clamp down on spending was a natural result of an approach that fails to recognize a sharply changed reality. In some respects, the administration and Congress act as if the surplus that greeted President Bush when he checked into the White House is still in the bank, rather than recognizing that whatever windfall was available then was eaten up and more by tax cuts.
 The reality is that the cuts, plus two wars, new domestic security needs, natural disasters and a big expansion of Medicare have left the government's account badly overdrawn with no prospect of getting it back in balance anytime soon.
 The criticisms set out by many Democrats -- that no real progress can be made in setting the nation's finances right until Congress proves willing to revisit the tax cuts and that the nation is failing to invest sufficiently in addressing its economic and social ills -- do not receive much of a hearing in a Washington where Republicans are in charge. 
 ''I think the critical flaw is the failure to adjust fiscal policy in the face of new circumstances,'' said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan group that advocates reducing the deficit through spending cuts and tax increases. 
 Mr. Bixby and others say the Republican-controlled Congress and the Bush administration have shown a near total disregard for fiscal discipline, running up new debt. 
 ''The problem we have had on the budget all along is a lack of adult supervision on the part of the White House,'' said Bruce Bartlett, an economist and author of a new book critical of Mr. Bush's economic record. ''You can't blame members of Congress for looking out for their parochial interests. It is the president's responsibility to look out for the national interest.''
 With the president's influence on Capitol Hill slipping along with his poll numbers, it is unclear how much authority Mr. Bush could exert over lawmakers regardless. Senate Republicans showed no hesitation about bursting through the spending ceiling he set, adding more than $16 billion after eliminating some of his cuts. 
 And while the House, which was considering $92 billion in emergency war spending and hurricane aid, rejected most efforts to increase that total, lawmakers did buy a few extras, including $50 million more for peacekeeping in Darfur.
 Almost lost in all the budget and spending activity was that House and Senate negotiators continue to try to hammer out an agreement for new tax cuts that could cost an additional $70 billion over five years.
 If Republicans in the Senate were motivated by a political calculation that this was not the time to close the fiscal taps, much less cut more deeply into domestic spending, they risked what some conservatives suggested could be a backlash from the right. Many strategists have warned Republicans that their core conservative supporters are demoralized by what they see as the unchecked growth of government. 
 John Kasich, a former Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee and devotee of balanced budgets who is now an investment adviser and author, said much of Washington had surrendered to the political impulse to please various voter groups with unbridled spending.''
 Republican leaders see it a bit differently. They point to nearly $40 billion in savings from social insurance programs they produced last year, an effort that took a tremendous amount of political effort. And an across-the-board cut shaved about $8 billion from current agency budgets. 
 They say they intend to hold spending for most agencies outside of the military and domestic security under this year's tight limits and will try to erase some of the Senate spending additions in negotiations with the House.
 To do so, they will have to get around Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who clamored for the extra $7 billion. Mr. Specter said that spending constraints had cut too deeply into health and education programs and that there was a strong show of support for the money -- a majority of Republicans backed it.
 Republicans also say they see a proposed line-item veto and new restrictions on pet projects as part of a rehabilitation program to kick their spending habit. While those initiatives may end some suspect practices, most see the savings as chump change in an era of $350 billion annual deficits and $9 trillion in total debt.
 Serious fiscal worriers believe the only true fix can come from a bipartisan meeting of the minds that would put all federal programs on the table along with consideration of both spending cuts and tax increases.
 ''I've concluded this job is so big it can only be done if the two parties work together,'' said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee.
 But Mr. Conrad acknowledged that nothing substantive could get done in the short term, with both parties girding for November. As the Senate deliberations show, frugality is not an election-year budget value.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (53%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%) Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (54%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



368 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer as a Taciturn Go-Getter

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:

This 30-second advertisement for Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democratic candidate for governor, began running on Thursday on network and cable broadcast stations in New York City and its suburbs.

PRODUCER -- Spontaneous.

ON THE SCREEN -- Set to an intensifying rhythm of drumbeats and a synthesizer, black-and-white images of newspaper articles flash and then fade on the screen. The eye-catching headlines reflect positive coverage of Mr. Spitzer's work as attorney general: ''Spitzer: Execs Must Pay,'' ''Spitzer $laps Gas Gougers,'' ''Spitzer: Pass My Medicaid Fraud Legislation,'' and so on. The pace of music and images increases, and more headline words appear, like ''fearless'' and ''victory,'' until the newsprint pixels blur into black. 
 The announcer speaks as a single photo appears of Mr. Spitzer, smiling in profile, above the campaign tag line, ''Bring some passion back to Albany.''

THE SCRIPT -- A male announcer says: ''Now, just imagine what he'd do as your governor. Spitzer for governor.''

ACCURACY -- The ad makes no substantial factual claims.

SCORECARD -- Mr. Spitzer's first ad had a sonorous, elegiac tempo, casting him as a caring leader who would help New Yorkers struggling in the weak upstate economy (though the ad played in the city as well). This new ad reinforces the high-profile folk-hero status that Mr. Spitzer enjoys among many New York City liberals who like his fraud prosecutions against some of the well-paid barons of Wall Street. For others, the ad might convey arrogance or a certain zealotry that critics have attributed to Mr. Spitzer.
 Voters want the next governor to reform Albany, according to public opinion polls, and the headlines and pace leave the impression that Mr. Spitzer gets results -- and fast. Except for the first few images, the headlines fly by so quickly that the ad may confuse people who are not political or news media insiders.
 As in the first ad, Mr. Spitzer does not speak; while he has been broadcasting campaign commercials for only a few days, voters will want to hear from him directly at some point. PATRICK HEALY


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MEDICAID (70%); MEDICARE FRAUD (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%) Political Advertising

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Patrick Healy; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



369 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Another Black Eye for H&R Block

 BODY:
H&R Block's Express I.R.A. lets tax filers deposit all or part of their refunds directly into retirement savings accounts. Theoretically, it's a great way to save because the money is stashed away before it can be spent. But the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, says that in practice, it's a lousy deal. In a lawsuit filed this week, Mr. Spitzer contends that the accounts are ''virtually guaranteed to lose money'' because of low returns and high fees. 
 H&R Block denies any wrongdoing and plans to fight in court. Regardless of the outcome, the controversy should be a reminder that low- and moderate-income earners need straightforward, low-cost ways to save. Conventional I.R.A.'s are inconvenient and offer tax breaks meant primarily for high-income people. Employer-based savings plans, like 401(k)'s, are often not available. The dearth of easy ways to save is surely a big reason that hundreds of thousands of people have signed up for the H&R Block offering.
The best idea yet developed for making savings universal is an I.R.A. that is funded with automatic direct deposits from a paycheck. The brainchild of researchers from the Heritage Foundation and the Brookings Institution, the automatic I.R.A. would use a no-frills design and economies of scale to overcome the problem of high fees on small accounts. Congress should pass legislation to establish auto-I.R.A.'s, and the president should sign it. 
 Split refunds is another idea whose time is way overdue. The Internal Revenue Service will deposit a refund directly into a taxpayer's bank account. But it won't split the amount between, say, a checking account and an I.R.A. If the I.R.S. would split refunds, taxpayers would not need H&R Block, or any other financial company, to channel some of their refunds into long-term savings. The Bush administration proposed allowing split refunds in 2004. The I.R.S. says it will be able to offer the service next year. Congress must make sure it happens.
 Besides facing Mr. Spitzer's suit, H&R Block is also being sued over high-cost short-term loans it makes against filers' refunds, and it recently paid $62.5 million to settle some cases related to the loans. That corporate history makes it all the more pressing to examine Mr. Spitzer's charges. But the deeper issue is that people who want to save -- and need to save -- need more help than they're getting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Editorials; Suits and Litigation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%) Block, H&r, Inc; Heritage Foundation; Brookings Institution

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006



370 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: March 19, 2006

 BODY:
Week List FICTION
1 1 MICAH, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Jove, $7.99.) The vampire hunter Anita Blake must reanimate a federal witness.
2 1 FATAL BURN, by Lisa Jackson. (Zebra, $7.99.) A former Special Forces agent searches for his daughter. 
3 1 KILL THE MESSENGER, by Tami Hoag. (Bantam, $7.99.) A bicycle messenger becomes the prime suspect in the murder of a sleazy Los Angeles defense attorney.
4 1 RAGE, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware tries to figure out who murdered a young man who had spent time behind bars for killing a child when he was a teenager.
5 1 PRETTY WOMAN, by Fern Michaels. (Pocket, $7.99.) After kicking her no-good husband out of the house, a Georgia woman wins $300 million in a lottery.
6 1 DEVIL IN WINTER, by Lisa Kleypas. (Avon, $7.50.) To escape her unscrupulous relatives, Evie Jenner proposes marriage to a notorious libertine.
7 15 THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets. 
8 5 IMPOSSIBLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.
9 5 THE CLOSERS, by Michael Connelly. (Warner, $7.99.) Detective Harry Bosch investigates the long-ago death of a 16-year-old girl.
10 1 WITH NO ONE AS WITNESS, by Elizabeth George. (HarperTorch, $7.99.) Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley and his colleagues hunt for a serial killer.
11 9 HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Warner, $13.95.) An F.B.I. agent investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.
12 59 MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.95; $7.99.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.
13 1 GIRL IN THE SHADOWS, by V. C. Andrews. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) April Taylor escapes her troubled past by finding shelter with a kindly grandmother, but faces a new threat when a dangerous couple arrives.
14 78 THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.
15 5 CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: GABRIELLA & ALEXANDER, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances set on a Mediterranean isle.
 Weeks 
This On 
Week List NONFICTION
1 7 NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.
2 55 IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.
3 24 A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 
4 8 THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.
5 82 THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.
6 10 THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their trip around the world.
7 11 COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.
8 9 CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''
9 107 THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of a great architect and a serial killer, who were linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.
10 8 ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.
11 21 FLYBOYS, by James Bradley. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95; $7.99.) Eight American airmen shot down and captured by the Japanese in World War II.
12 183 GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.
13 14 THE END OF FAITH, by Sam Harris. (Norton, $13.95.) The clash between reason and religion. 
14 5 SMASHED, by Koren Zailckas. (Penguin, $14.) A young woman remembers her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.
15 7 CASH: The Autobiography, by Johnny Cash with Patrick Carr. (HarperCollins, $15.95; $7.99.) The life of country music's Man in Black, who died in 2003.
 Weeks 
This On 
Week List Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover
1 164 THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()
2 1 INSPIRATION, by Wayne W. Dyer. (Hay House, $24.95.) Help in answering the question ''Why am I here?''
3 71 YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()
4 5 IF YOU COULD SEE WHAT I SEE, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $24.95.) A professed psychic offers 21 principles for living.
5 35 NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()
 Weeks 
This On 
Week List Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback
1 18 365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.
2 255 WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) Advice for parents-to-be. ()
3 40 THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.
4 268 RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. () 
5 2 YOU: THE SMART PATIENT, by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. (Free Press, $14.95.) A guide to navigating the American health care system.
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 4, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FAMILY (74%); WOMEN (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); TALIBAN (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); WORLD WAR II (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (58%); JAMES PATTERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (66%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



371 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 134

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Lost Seoul 

BYLINE: By Peter Hyun

 BODY:
The Korean Filmmaker Kim Ki-Duk Mourns The Old Ways.
Traces of old Korea are impossible to find in the posh Cheongdam-dong district of Seoul. The streets here are lined with spacious Prada and Louis Vuitton stores and with fusion restaurants whose menus and decor are hyped by the Korean-language editions of Vogue and Cosmopolitan. Trendy wine bars have sprung up everywhere so that sophisticated Seoulites can now ip New World vintages at tables overlooking a skyline bejeweled with simmering skyscrapers.
 For a city decimated by war 50 years ago, Seoul is certainly in amazing shape. But many of the spectacular changes that have occurred in South Korea over the last few decades are viewed by the Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk with skepticism and disapproval. 
 The winner of several international awards, this 45-year-old writer and director is perhaps best known in the West for ''Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring'' and ''3-iron.'' A quiet, lyrical film, ''Spring, Summer'' chronicles five seasons in the lives of a Korean Buddhist monk and his young protege, who live in a small wooden house on a raft in middle of a mountain lake. Each vignette is filmed in a way that makes the viewer experience the passing of time as well as the changes of season. ''3-iron,'' on the other hand, concerns a young man who roams the streets of Seoul on his motorcycle, breaking into and inhabiting the houses of their vacationing owners. It depicts a modern, middle-class South Korea, similar in some ways to the United States. With their contrasting visions - ancient versus modern, pastoral versus urban, philosophic versus pragmatic - the films point to a duality at the heart of contemporary South Korea, and also in their director.
 Kim Ki-duk has had no training in the arts or film. His formal education ended with elementary school. As a teenager, eh worked in factories, manufacturing buttons and electronic gadgets, a microscopic cog in South Korea's ''miracle economy.'' He began making films more than a decade ago, and many of their magical, idyllic images and oddball characters are drawn from his life. Despite fame and some fortune overseas, Ki has yet to be embraced at home, and he does not have the same cult following in Korea that he does in Europe and the United States. Yet Kim insists he couldn't be happier, living on the outskirts of Seoul, eating Korean food and enjoying all things traditionally Korean. He does not, however, wear a Korean flag pin on his lapel, nor does he suggest that his country and its culture are superior to others. He simply feels more comfortable in familiar surroundings.
 Kim questions the foreign values that have challenged Korea's millenniums-old culture, altering what had been to hard-working South Koreans ''our way of life.'' But he readily admits that not all South Koreans share his pejorative view of Westernization and rapid change, certainly not those in the entertainment industry of which he is a part. Today, Seoul is Asia's pop-culture capital, with teenagers and hip adults emulating stylish South Korean singers and movie stars throughout Asia, whether at nightclubs, karaoke bars or plastic surgeons' offices.
 Kim describes a current generation gap in which parents lead traditional, family-oriented lives starkly different from those of their children - adoring fans of ''Friends'' and ''Sex and the City'' who pursue cash-rich careers and live alone I brand-new studio apartments, eating pizza and sandwiches, which require far fewer utensils and are less of a hassle to prepare.
 Yet, in Seoul, traditional single-story Korean houses still stand next to chic glass-panel buildings whose interiors smell of paint. Sales clerks - whether in a European couture shop in Cheongdam-dong or a McDonald's in some suburb - bow courteously to every customer. And you can get a cup of espresso or spiked coffee in the Paris-style cafes, but you can also find green-tea milkshakes and sweet-potato pastries, long a staple of the old Korean snacking culture, sold on the streets by elderly vendors.
 So contemporary South Korea isn't entirely modern, nor is it a country whose economy depends on foreigners visiting ancient tourist attractions. It is, as Kim knows, a country of juxtapositions, at times of white,'' he says. ''They are reciprocal. Therefore, I think they are the same.'' 
 FAR LEFT

 Photos: SCENES FROM AN OEUVRE Kim Ki-duk directs modern fables. His 2000 movie, ''The Isle'' (first frame above), is a dark, grizzly tale that concerns a Buddhist monk and his protege in different stages of their lives. Ki p layed the protege as an adult (third frame from left). His film introduced Kim to American audiences. ''Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring'' (next three frames); FAR LEFT: A STREET VENDOR IN THE MYEONG-DONG DISTRICT SELLS TRADITIONAL SNACKS LIKE SQUID AND SWEET POTATO. LEFT: KIM'S HOME IN THE HEYRI ARTISTS' VILLAGE THE APPEAL FO THE NEIGHBORHOOD, HE SAYS, ''IS THE ABSENCE OF BOUNDARIES OR WALLS, UNLIKE THE DEMILITARIZED ZONE 10 KILOMETERS AWAY.'' BELOW: A ROOM IN A TEAHOUSE IN THE INSA-DONG NEIGHBORHOOD. THE YOUNGER GENERATION VISITS THE GRAFFITI ON THE WALLS. DINERS CAN SIT ON THE FLOOR ACCORDING TO TRADITION OR ON CHAIRS. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs By Juliana Sohn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); RELIGION (66%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (66%); FASTENER & PIN MFG (61%); DRINKING PLACES (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (84%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (84%); LVMH (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (84%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (84%)

PERSON: Peter Hyun; Kim Ki-Duk

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%) South Korea; Seoul (South Korea)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



372 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 116

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: The Face Of Lima

BYLINE: By Ann Marie Gardner

 BODY:
The people of Lima, Peru, work hard -- often six days a week -- for barely enough to survive. Still, they know how to have fun. Going to the beach, dancing, sports and religious festivals are wildly popular. And so is eating well. With roughly 20 cooking schools in Lima and the ''Novandina'' (the new Andean cuisine) movement, the culinary arts have become not only a desirable profession but also a key to social mobility.. Written And Produced By Ann Marie Gardner
Madre Socorro Barboza and Madre Imelda Huamani Javier Missionaries. ''Where the road ends is where we start our work,'' Madre Imelda says. Ride horses to mountain villages and live with the poor. Make CD's of Peruvian Christmas music and sell them for their church. Dream: ''To go to heaven and carry many people,'' Madre Imelda says 
 Andrea Vidal Surfer and student chef. Will study at Le Cordon Bleu Peru in Lima. Surfs all year. Wants to cook international food. Likes Bryan Adams and classical music. Dream: to go to Hawaii and later to open a restaurant in Spain or Japan.
 Gaston Acurio Celebrity chef and restaurant owner. Travels the countryside learning traditional recipes and cooking techniques. His restaurants include: Astrid & Gaston, La Mar and Tanta. Favorite food: fried egg with rice (cooked at home). Has eight Persian cats. ''We're still a poor country, but not in terms of our culture, passion, dreams or food.'' 
 Antonio Tarnawiecki Consulting chemical engineer for World Bank. Has traveled all over -- Nepal, India, Malaysia, several countries in Africa. Believes Lima offers a certain freedom. ''It's the most important element of the personality of Lima.'' Wants to go to Poland, his father's country. Dream: ''That the rest of my life is not too short -- 95 would be all right.'' 
 Dennis de Lan Lanai Student at Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Peru. Likes raves and trance music. Collects fliers from different parties. ''I stick them on the wall of my dorm. Every wall is covered but one.'' Vacations in Ibiza, Spain. Dream: to be a super-D.J.
 Tiofila Mamani Sells crafts from Puno. ''I like working. I like sewing.'' Husband died eight years ago. Works to save money for her children. Can't stop working. ''No work, no money.'' Has traveled as far as Cusco. ''Every day I wake up, I pray.'' 
 Samuel Gutierres Gonzales Truck driver. Father of six. Likes to drive but says, ''Gas is too expensive.'' Has no time to watch movies. Doesn't take vacation. ''My dream is to have a truck that is not so old.'' Wants to go to the United States. 
 Maria Luisa Zarate Tae Bo and aerobics instructor. ''I like to look after people and make them healthy. If I didn't work, I would always do something to attend to the people.'' Dances by herself for fun. Wants to have a little house in the countryside -- ''no TV's or radios, just birds and flowers.'' 
 Asdrubal Kahatt Paredres Medical technician. Goes to people's houses to take blood. Prides himself on his patience. Is very good at chess. Doesn't smoke, drink or have pets. Likes Pizza Hut pizza. Favorite actress: Pamela Anderson. 
 Vicente Furgiuele Owner of Canta Rana restaurant. Favorite food: ceviche. Favorite television show: ''Get Smart.'' ''I like to be with people and take care of their needs. I have a lot of fun here. I'm a very good host.'' Runs one hour or more each day. ''My restaurant is the gathering place for runners from all over the world.'' 
 Hareshman Caldas Guinet Authenticates the antiques he sells with his father. Favorite foods: chifa (Peruvian-Chinese) and ceviche. Wants to go to Germany because of the cars. Hobbies: skateboarding, riding bicycles. ''I can stand on one wheel.'' Dream: to design cars.
 Carla Rincon Model. Four years with an international modeling agency. Favorite movie: ''Sin City.'' Loves New York. Loves to dance. Wants to be a fashion designer. 
 Maria Alejandra and Ana Carolina Levano Elementary school students. Maria loves literature; Ana Carolina, science. Chat on the Internet for fun. Maria wants to visit Italy and be a singer. Ana Carolina wants to be a movie actress and travel the world. No boyfriends yet. Both want to date Harry Potter.
 Nelly Al Tamirano and Tristan Walks Tristan three hours a day. He eats special dog food but likes people food, especially rice. She worries that Peruvians work so hard for so little. Likes singing in the shower and riding her bicycle in the park. 
 Gustavo Becerra Retired psychotherapist. Back from living in Miami. Likes Lima lifestyle. ''People take time for everyday life.'' Favorite food: ceviche. Raises fox terriers. Dream: ''to get to know my entire homeland at this stage of my life.'' 
 Aisha Enciso Age 6. In first grade. Likes playing with friends and studying. Favorite classes: English and communication. Plays volleyball and basketball but likes volleyball better. Has three dogs -- Osa, Bebe and Kucki. Best friend is Joyce. Wants to be a ''doctor for animals'' and live in Lima. Is very good at dancing. Favorite foods: ice cream and arroz con pollo. 
 Guiliana Yessika Zeballos Leguia Student at Le Cordon Bleu Peru. Is good at cooking seafood. Loves tennis and male tennis players. Used to train three hours a day; now just plays for fun. Wants to go to Paris and eventually open her own restaurant in Peru. 
 Fernando Garcia Abisrror Security guard. Likes to watch people. Favorite movie: ''Forrest Gump.'' Wants to visit Israel. Runs and lifts weights before work. Talent: carpentry, making wood furniture. Wants to be in good shape, be healthy and help people. 
 Marius Salvador Cabrera Salon owner and hairdresser. Famous for cutting hair in five minutes. Does up to 100 cuts in one day. ''I'm good at making the girls pretty.'' Hidden talent: making cookies. Has 12 brothers. ''I'm the favorite right now.'' Loves to dress up and go dancing at discotheques. Lives and works with his mother.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs by James Day)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RELIGION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); SURFING (77%); MUSIC (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); MUSIC GENRES (69%); CATS (67%); TRUCK DRIVERS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Ann Marie Gardner

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%) PERU (94%); SPAIN (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Lima (Peru); Peru

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



373 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 6; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Airports Spurred Growth

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''End of the Runway: New Homes are Rising,'' (March 12), C. J. Hughes writes that airports ''that once seemed far-flung are suddenly in the middle of the action'' as communities have sprung up around them, and developers now want the land. But the author fails to note that airports are often the reason communities spring up in the first place. 
Small airports create jobs and businesses and bring visitors who spend additional money in the area. Over all, general aviation airports contribute $42 billion a year to the nation's economy, studies find.
 After years of neglect, Atlantic City, N.J., is planning to close Bader Field -- considered the nation's first municipal airport -- in September. It's ridiculous to neglect an airport to the point of it being an eyesore and then argue for its closure because it's an eyesore.
 Airports should be saved by the communities they helped create.

Andrew Schmertz
Manhattan

The author is executive producer of 2Flytv, which produces aviation television.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WRITERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



374 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: When a Co-op Refinances

 BODY:

Q. My co-op building recently refinanced the building's mortgage, increasing the amount owed. Personally, I would prefer trying to pay off the mortgage instead of borrowing more. Is there a way I can pay off my own share of the building's mortgage? Jean Savanyu, Manhattan

A. Arthur I. Weinstein, a Manhattan lawyer who is vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said there is no practical way -- or legal justification -- for an individual shareholder to pay off his or her ''share'' of a co-op building's mortgage. 
 ''The building mortgage represents a debt of the co-op corporation as a whole,'' Mr. Weinstein said. ''And the cost of meeting all of the co-op's obligations are passed on by the corporation to its shareholders in proportion to the number of shares owned by each shareholder.''
 Indeed, he said, since mortgage refinancing decisions involve many factors -- including old and new interest rates, possible prepayment penalties and, perhaps, a need to raise capital -- it is likely that this board weighed all the appropriate factors and decided it was in the best interest of the co-op to refinance for more than the amount owed on the original mortgage.

Rent Increase Is Pegged To Building's New Plumbing

Q. For 35 years, we have lived in a prewar building on the Upper West Side that is a mix of rent-regulated and market-priced apartments. There have been problems with the plumbing system for decades, and about three years ago the landlord did a much-needed repiping of the building. Now the owner wants to claim a Major Capital Improvement increase and raise everyone's rent. Does this qualify as an upgrade, or is it simply maintenance? Anne Larsen, Manhattan

A. Dov Treiman, a New York lawyer who is publisher of The Landlord-Tenant Monthly, said that in order for work in a building to qualify as a Major Capital Improvement under the rent laws, the system being replaced must have outlived what the law calls its ''useful life'' which, for copper plumbing, is 30 years. In addition, Mr. Treiman said, the improvement must benefit all residents -- either directly or indirectly -- and the cost of the replacement must be depreciable under the tax laws and must not be considered an ordinary repair for tax purposes.
 ''From the question, it sounds as if this change will qualify as a Major Capital Improvement and lead to legal rent increases,'' Mr. Treiman said. Generally, the increase is apportioned on a per-room basis. The amount is calculated by dividing the cost of the improvement by 84 (spreading the monthly payments over seven years), and by then dividing the result by the total number of rooms in the building.
 Mr. Treiman noted, however, that since the rent laws apply only to rent-regulated tenants, nonregulated tenants will not have to pay an M.C.I. increase unless a provision requiring them to pay such an increase is included in their nonregulated lease. ''And few such leases have such clauses,'' Mr. Treiman said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LAWYERS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (69%); TAX LAW (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



375 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 940 words

PERSON: G. William Miller

HEADLINE: G. William Miller, 81, Former Chairman of Federal Reserve and Treasury Secretary

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81.
 The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening and deterioration of the lungs, said Carol Juarer, his secretary at G. William Miller & Company in Washington. She said Mr. Miller was a nonsmoker who had been in good health all his life until the lung disease was diagnosed in June 2004.
A small, hard-driving Oklahoman with boundless energy, Mr. Miller was a Coast Guard officer, a lawyer and a corporate executive with a dazzling resume in business, government service, and the arts and humanities. 
 He was also a persistent advocate of equal employment opportunities for minorities. A recurrent theme of his speeches and conversations, colleagues said, was a warning against business profits at the expense of the environment and what he called human values.
 Early in his career, Mr. Miller helped build a moderate-size textile manufacturer into the giant aerospace conglomerate Textron, diversifying its reach from consumer goods to industrial equipment and aircraft, including Bell UH-1 helicopters, or Hueys, which were the workhorses of the Vietnam War. 
 But he is perhaps best known for his relatively brief service, less than three years, in the Carter administration. In an era of stagflation -- a stagnant economy and rising inflation -- Mr. Miller was the man in the box, using the puppeteer levers of interest rates and monetary policy in search of the delicate balance of dampering inflation without throwing the national economy into a catastrophic tailspin.
 As chairman of the Federal Reserve from March 1978 to August 1979, Mr. Miller pushed interest rates, though not enough to satisfy many of his critics. He also called for a national policy to reduce consumption of foreign oil, recommended cuts in government spending and taxation, and urged labor and management to moderate wage demands and price increases.
 Unlike his predecessor, Arthur F. Burns, who had tried to limit economic expansion in the belief that inflation was the far greater peril, Mr. Miller insisted that inflation and unemployment could be fought simultaneously.
 But the economy remained sluggish and inflation was not subdued, and Wall Street drubbed Mr. Miller as overly cautious, especially in slowing the growth of the nation's money supply. (His successor at the Fed, Paul A. Volcker, brought inflation under control by raising interest rates astronomically.)
 Mr. Miller retained the president's confidence, however, and in a cabinet shakeup on Aug. 6, 1979, he was named treasury secretary to succeed W. Michael Blumenthal. Over the next 17 months, until Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Miller was credited by many administration supporters and detractors with bringing order to an economic policy that had been prone to aimlessness and disarray.
 During his tenure, Mr. Miller also pushed through an accord with labor on wage-price guidelines that had been stalemated for months and negotiated $1.5 billion in loan guarantees that rescued the Chrysler Corporation from near bankruptcy and saved thousands of jobs. He also arranged the freezing -- and later the unfreezing -- of Iranian assets in United States custody during the Iranian hostage crisis, when 52 Americans at the United States Embassy in Tehran were held captive for 444 days. 
 ''Bill Miller had great skills in getting disparate parties together on the same page,'' said Steven L. Skancke, a former treasury official and a partner in G. William Miller & Company, the discreet, Swiss-style merchant bank in Washington that had been the focus of Mr. Miller's business interests since 1981.
 George William Miller was born on March 9, 1925, in Sapulpa, Okla., but grew up in Borger, Tex., where his parents hoped in vain to cash in on the discovery of oil in the Texas Panhandle.
 He graduated from the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn., in 1945, and spent the next four years as a line officer in the Pacific, mostly in Okinawa and Shanghai, where he met and married Ariadna Rogojarsky, a Russian emigre. The couple had no children.
 After graduating at the top of his law school class at the University of California, Berkeley, he joined the Wall Street firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore in 1952. But in 1956, he joined Textron, based in Providence, R.I., as an assistant secretary.
 Within four years he was president of the company, and over the next 18 years he turned it into a global enterprise with arms in aerospace, consumer goods and industrial equipment. 
 Mr. Miller never ran for political office, but he was enlisted by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, as well as by Mr. Carter, to lead efforts to attack unemployment, assist minorities and veterans, and fight inflation and a flagging economy. From 1963 to 1965, he was chairman of an advisory council to the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity.
 In 1968, he was chairman of a national business group's campaign for the Democratic ticket, Hubert H. Humphrey and Edmund S. Muskie. He was chairman and chief executive of Federated Stores from 1990 to 1992.
 He was also a director of many corporations and the Washington National Opera, a treasurer of the American Red Cross and a member of the National Council on the Humanities. 
 Besides his wife, Mr. Miller is survived by three sisters: Catherine Spiller and Myra Fowler, of Amarillo, Tex., and Mabel Wade, of Bedford, Va.; and two brothers, Othneil and Dee, both of Amarillo.


GRAPHIC: Photo: G. William Miller, in 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); SMOKING (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HELICOPTERS (67%); TEXTILE MFG (52%); VIETNAM WAR (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MILLER & CO INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2435 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (72%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (72%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



376 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2122 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: March 19, 2006

 BODY:
FICTION
1 THE HOUSE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) A workaholic lawyer's life changes when she buys a crumbling mansion.
2 THE 5TH HORSEMAN, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women's Murder Club investigate unexplained deaths at a San Francisco hospital. 
3 THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.
4 CELL, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.95.) What remains of humanity fights to survive after a mysterious force scrambles cellphone users' brains.
5 THE TEMPLAR LEGACY, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A former Justice Department operative becomes involved in a desperate search for the long-lost treasure and secrets of the medieval Knights Templar.
6 THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.
7 IN THE COMPANY OF THE COURTESAN, by Sarah Dunant. (Random House, $23.95.) A courtesan and her pimp, a dwarf, make their way in Renaissance Venice.
8 THE TWO MINUTE RULE, by Robert Crais. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A robber just released from prison tracks down the killers of his son, a Los Angeles cop.
9 SOUR PUSS, by Rita Mae Brown and Sneaky Pie Brown. (Bantam, $25.) Aided by her cats, a Virginia woman investigates a mysterious death.
10 THE REBELS OF IRELAND, by Edward Rutherfurd. (Doubleday, $28.95.) A story of six families against the sweep of Irish history from 1597 to 1922.
11 LOVERS & PLAYERS, by Jackie Collins. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Red Diamond's three sons grapple with sex, secrets and murders on both coasts.
12 SEA CHANGE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., searches for the killer of a woman whose body washed ashore.
13 THE OLD WINE SHADES, by Martha Grimes. (Viking, $25.95.) Richard Jury of New Scotland Yard investigates a disappearance that involves a murder.
14 MEMORY IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas tracks the killer of a woman who blackmailed her; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.
15 THE ISLAND, by Heather Graham. (Mira, $21.95.) A young woman on vacation discovers a skull and pursues its story; back home in Miami, she faces threats.
16 THE FALLEN, by T. Jefferson Parker. (Morrow, $24.95.) A San Diego detective investigates the death of a colleague in an atmosphere of municipal corruption.

NONFICTION
1 MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.
2 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.
3 FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.
4 MANHUNT, by James L. Swanson. (Morrow, $26.95.) The 12-day pursuit of John Wilkes Booth after his assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
5 YOU'RE WEARING THAT?, by Deborah Tannen. (Random House, $24.95.) How mothers and daughters communicate.
6 THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.
7 BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.
8 TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, revealed in his relationship with his cabinet, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''
9 STRATEGERY, by Bill Sammon. (Regnery, $27.95.) A behind-the-scenes look at the election of 2004 and the following year from a Washington Times reporter. ()
10 BEYOND BAND OF BROTHERS, by Dick Winters with Cole C. Kingseed. (Berkley Caliber, $24.95.) The war memoirs of the commander of Easy Company, made famous by Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers.''
11 TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.
12 EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Viking, $24.95.) A writer's yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.
13 CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.
14 OUR ENDANGERED VALUES, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The former president warns against blurring politics and fundamentalist religion.
15 MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this book about Frey's helpful mobster friend contains numerous fabrications.

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 4, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

FALLING THROUGH THE EARTH: A Memoir, by Danielle Trussoni. (Henry Holt, $23.) With affection, respect and humor, a daughter tries to make sense of the demons her father brought home from the Vietcong's subterranean labyrinth.
 THE WEATHER MAKERS: How Man Is Changing the Climate and What It Means for Life on Earth, by Tim Flannery. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) This guide to the complexities of climate change is strong on geological history. Passionate and well researched, as is the following:
 FIELD NOTES FROM A CATASTROPHE: Man, Nature, and Climate Change, by Elizabeth Kolbert. (Bloomsbury, $22.95.) A global tour of the evidence, with scientists the author meets along the way doing most of the talking.
 WHAT JESUS MEANT, by Garry Wills (Viking, $22.95.) In this devotional study, a noted scholar and Catholic stresses Christ's radicalism.
 AVERNO, by Louise Gluck. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) Poems inspired by the underworld of myth confront our most intractable fears.
 THE PEOPLE'S ACT OF LOVE, by James Meek. (Canongate, $24.) In a Siberian town in 1919, zealots, cannibals and penal colony inmates prefigure Russia's Communist future. 
 A DANGEROUS ENGINE: Benjamin Franklin, From Scientist to Diplomat, by Joan Dash. Illustrated by Dusan Petricic. (Frances Foster/ Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17. Ages 10 and up.) Goes way beyond the key on the kite string.
 CONSIDER THE LOBSTER: And Other Essays, by David Foster Wallace. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) Magazine articles with a moral framework.
 MUSIC FROM BIG PINK: A Novella, by John Niven. (Continuum, paper, $9.95.) A Woodstock-era tale of human loss, backed up by the Band.
 CRUNCHY CONS, by Rod Dreher. (Crown Forum, $24.) A reporter examines a class of conservatives with an ecological, countercultural bent.
 WHAT CAROLINE KNEW, by Caryn James. (St. Martin's, $21.95.) A risque painting of an alluring socialite kicks up a Jazz Age scandal.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); WOMEN (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); HISTORY (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); CATS (64%); EXTORTION (63%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); STEPHEN KING (74%); JAMES PATTERSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



377 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION/RADIO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2099 words

HEADLINE: Money Changes Everything

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
TO Jay Kernis, senior vice president of programming at National Public Radio and a founding producer of ''Morning Edition,'' the darkest moments in the network's 36-year history probably came in 1983, when it was just days away from running out of money and had to be sustained with emergency transfusions from its member stations and from federal grants. 
 Renee Montagne, a co-host of ''Morning Edition,'' said she probably hit her own low point on a reporting trip to Pierre, S.D., in 1989. On the tight budget her bosses had approved, she and a co-worker couldn't afford an $65-a-night hotel room, settling instead for a motel so dicey that the blankets were tacked to the wall to keep people from walking off with them.
The last two years, however, have been a very different story. NPR has created nearly 70 new jobs in its newsroom, many of them for reporters on newly created beats like police and prisons, labor, international economics, the environment, technology and the media. And all this as other news organizations have been paring their staffs and scaling back their ambitions as consumers and advertisers drift away. 
 NPR doesn't have traditional advertising, of course, so it has always relied on the generosity of corporations (which typically receive understated acknowledgments on the air), foundations and listeners. One listener in particular is responsible for the new mood: Joan B. Kroc, the widow of Ray A. Kroc, the man who built the McDonald's chain. Just before her death in 2003, she arranged to leave NPR a gift of about $230 million. That was bigger than anyone at NPR could ever have imagined -- so big that the interest alone has paid for most of those new jobs. Since the gift was announced, in November 2003, nothing at NPR has been quite the same.
 ''It was like Christmas and the lottery,'' said Mr. Kernis, who left NPR in 1987 and returned in 2001. ''It was unbelievable. It was this enormous act of validation. We knew who we were. But suddenly, this outside force was saying, 'Not only are you worth it, but we want you to continue for decades doing this.' ''
 Or, as Frank Langfitt, a former Beijing correspondent for The Baltimore Sun recently hired to cover issues of labor and the workplace, put it, ''Without McDonald's, I wouldn't have a job.''
 Even before the Kroc gift -- and yes, several listeners did order bags of Big Macs to be delivered to the newsroom on the day it was announced -- NPR had started to change, albeit slowly. What had started as alternative radio, with music and documentaries that no commercial station would broadcast and hosts whose voices were as serene as a yoga instructor's, had begun the transformation to a primary news source for millions of Americans.
 ''I don't think there's a 'Wizard of Oz' moment when the place turned into color,'' said Robert Siegel, a co-host of the afternoon program ''All Things Considered'' almost continuously since 1987. ''It always had ambitions. It's just that it's been a long time getting resources to express those ambitions.''
 In the old days NPR had little hope of breaking news on its own; the best a show like ''All Things Considered'' could do was conduct an interview on the air with a reporter covering the story for another news organization. ''There was a joke we used to tell at NPR,'' Mr. Kernis said. ''Because we didn't have the resources or the staff, we could do a story a day late and call it analysis.''
 That attitude began to change, he said, during the presidency of Frank Mankiewicz, from 1977 to 1983. Mr. Mankiewicz, who had been Robert F. Kennedy's press secretary and George S. McGovern's campaign manager, invoked ''West Side Story,'' imploring NPR's journalists to ''walk tall, you're Jets,'' Mr. Kernis recalled. Throughout the 1990's and especially in the last six years, NPR began to tap corporations for new sources of revenue and, in turn, to expand its reporting reach with 10 new foreign bureaus, including Berlin, Jerusalem and Hanoi. Meanwhile, commercial television and radio networks were turning away from foreign coverage. 
 ''As others have downsized, it has given us a niche,'' said Loren Jenkins, senior foreign editor. During the 1991 Persian Gulf war, NPR asked several of its key member stations for additional money for live coverage from the Middle East. Since spring 2003, when the United States began its second major military action in the region, NPR has had as many as four journalists on the ground in Iraq at any one time.
 The audience has shown its approval. Over the last decade, the number of so-called unique listeners -- those who tune in at least once a week -- has impressively increased: to 25 million from 12.5 million, according to figures from the ratings service Arbitron provided by NPR. And since nearly half of NPR's operating budget is drawn from member stations based on formulas tied to their listenership, total revenue has soared as well -- from $74 million in 1998 to $140 million this year.
 The remainder of its budget comes from foundations (12 percent) and corporate support (30 percent), which has been vulnerable to such outside forces as the collapse of the dot-com boom in the 1990's. (No more than 2 percent of the budget comes from competitive federal grants, which has insulated NPR from political battles over programming.) 
 In spite of gains, NPR had been living hand to mouth. The Kroc grant, which went to the network's endowment, has changed all that. 
 If there is one NPR journalist whose experience epitomizes the gulf between the fiscal and journalistic momentum at NPR, and the hand-wringing at other media organizations, it is Bill Marimow.
 Just over two years ago, Mr. Marimow, a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner as an investigative reporter, was presiding over The Baltimore Sun as its editor, with a mandate from its owner to treat his newsroom as an aging, overweight athlete in need of a crash diet.
 Under immense pressure from the Tribune Company, which owns the Sun, to cut costs as circulation and profit margins dipped, Mr. Marimow began mining savings from what he considered the most unobtrusive areas, paring the stock tables and tearing pages of filler out of the early edition of the Sunday sports section. But the Tribune Company had far deeper cuts in mind. Mr. Marimow was fired in January 2004 and shortly after that, the company, based in Chicago, began shrinking the paper's Washington bureau, causing an exodus, and closing several of its foreign bureaus.
 Out of a job for the first time since his cub reporter days more than three decades earlier, Mr. Marimow would have had difficulty finding a major media organization that was not embarking on similar cuts. 
 But almost immediately, Kevin Klose, NPR's president and chief executive, called Mr. Marimow after reading about his firing; soon after, Mr. Marimow accepted the newly created post of managing editor of NPR News.
 ''It was as if I had been sprung from prison,'' Mr. Marimow said. ''It felt like I had been given an infusion of oxygen. Just to realize it wasn't going to be a fight every time we wanted to make a hiring decision or expansion.'' Last month he was promoted to vice president of news, overseeing 350 reporters, editors and producers in three dozen offices, including new studios in Culver City, Calif.
 It has largely fallen to him to help fill those new newsroom jobs, as NPR seeks to supplement its meat-and-potatoes coverage of the White House, Congress and Supreme Court. He has done so, at least in part, by hiring Mr. Langfitt and three other former Sun reporters, as well as two exiles from another shrinking Tribune paper, The Los Angeles Times.
 ''To put it in perspective,'' Mr. Langfitt said, ''the Sun just closed my old Beijing bureau. NPR just opened a Shanghai bureau. It's night and day.'' 
 In one sense, Mr. Marimow would seem an unlikely fit at NPR. He sheepishly admits that during 20 years as a reporter and editor in Philadelphia, and 11 years as an editor in Baltimore, he almost never listened to its member stations there.
 ''To be honest, I was usually too tired at the end of the day to listen to anything thoughtful,'' he said, adding that he preferred listening to country acts like Emmylou Harris and Johnny Cash, or rock standards like the Beatles and Beach Boys.
 His wife, Diane, an artist and elementary school art teacher, was an NPR devotee. But aside from that indirect contact, the closest Mr. Marimow had come to NPR was during the Abscam trial of 1981, which he covered for The Philadelphia Inquirer.''Every day I'd go to a phone booth and call Noah Adams, who was then host of 'All Things Considered,' and talk to him for three to five minutes,'' he said. ''That would be the program's coverage of the biggest political corruption case in the history of America.''
 At NPR, Mr. Marimow has brought a newspaperman's sense of how to juggle breaking news and longer-term projects.
 As any newspaper editor would, he has also taken note of instances in which his reporters have beaten other mainstream news organizations to big stories. In October, for example, NPR broadcast a report by Ari Shapiro that described how the Justice Department was increasingly loath to prosecute civil rights violations. A month later, a similar article appeared as the lead story on the front page of The Washington Post.
 Similarly, Mr. Langfitt, the new NPR labor reporter, broadcast a report in about a so-called jobs bank, where idle auto workers could do crossword puzzles and watch movies, while still drawing a salary. A similar article appeared on the front page of The Wall Street Journal on March 1.
 ''When you see our stories being emulated, one believes it's not just an accident,'' Mr. Marimow said.
 So where does that leave an organization that has often prided itself on making do with less -- indeed, one that has at times seemed to wear its poverty as a badge of journalistic honor? Those inescapable pledge drives, conducted by member stations, practically tell listeners that their $20 donations keep the network honest. 
 One $230 million gift later, can it still ask the same commitment of its listeners? And can it look at itself in quite the same light? 
 As Nina Totenberg, the longtime NPR legal affairs correspondent, says, ''My one fear is, people will think, 'We don't have to give.' ''
 Noting that its reserves, despite the Kroc infusion, would cover less than two years' of its operating budget, Ms. Totenberg said: ''We could easily eat that up. So I give. I don't give a ton. But I give.''
 Other recent changes have also forced NPR to rethink its role. The Web has afforded the network a whole new way to reach its audience, through free downloads of immensely popular podcasts with names like ''Story of the Day'' on iTunes. But there is a real concern that these innovations could alter the formula through which member stations pay NPR for programming. If listeners forsake their radios for the Web, then fees from local stations would drop.
 For that reason, NPR representatives have begun active discussions with local stations about such matters as how they might share the revenues from corporate sponsorships of online programming. NPR management has also been involved in a labor dispute with unions representing some technical workers whose skills can be replicated by new technology. 
 With all these very modern managerial issues on the table, does anyone ever get nostalgic for the struggles of earlier days?
 Neither Mr. Siegel nor Ms. Totenberg, nor Ms. Montagne nor Mr. Kernis, said they would miss those times when Washington sources might not have heard of an NPR reporter -- or the reporter might not have the money to take a source out to lunch. 
 ''This is a much stronger and more useful organization than it was 30 years ago,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''I wouldn't trade that.''
 Ms. Montagne, while noting with some amusement that NPR now constituted a career path for some young reporters -- including some who have listened to it their entire lives -- said she agreed with Mr. Siegel.
 And these days, when she travels outside Los Angeles, where she is co-host of her portion of ''Morning Edition,'' she said NPR puts her up in far nicer hotels than that one in South Dakota, including the Rouge, a boutique establishment in Washington with ''definitely high-thread-count sheets.''
 ''There is fun in being a well-kept secret, almost like working in a small theater off Broadway,'' she said. ''But in my case, to have built this place and find we are now at this other level, it's pretty gratifying.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Joan B. Kroc, left NPR a gift of about $230 million in 2003. Bill Marimow, above, a former newspaperman, is vice president for news at NPR, which has greatly expanded its coverage. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
(Photo by Stephen Dunn/Allsport)
Robert Siegel, a host of ''All Things Considered,'' with Nina Totenberg. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)
The newsroom at NPR West in Culver City, Calif., with the day's broadcast schedule. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); BUDGETS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); APPROVALS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); CHRISTMAS (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (91%) National Public Radio

PERSON: Jacques Steinberg; Joan B Kroc; William K Marimow

GEOGRAPHIC: PIERRE, SD, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



378 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rally to Best Week Yet of '06

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was the best week for stocks since the beginning of the year, as several economic reports suggested that inflation was under control while economic growth remained strong. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index both ended the week at fresh five-year highs. 
 On Thursday, the Labor Department reported that the Consumer Price Index rose only 0.1 percent in February after a 0.7 percent increase the previous month.
Wall Street firms themselves helped lead the market higher. Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers Holdings and Bear Stearns all reported record earnings. Shares of Goldman Sachs rose more than 6 percent for the week. 
 Shares of North Fork Bancorp, which agreed to be bought by the Capital One Financial Corporation for $14.6 billion, rose nearly 15 percent for the week. 
 For the week, the Dow industrials rose 203.31 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 11,279.65. The S.& P. 500 climbed 25.67 points, or 2 percent, to close at 1,307.25. The Nasdaq composite index gained 44.44 points, or 2 percent, to close at 2,306.48. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note slipped to 4.67 percent from 4.72 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Barnes & NobleNYSE: BKSThe bookseller reported a 6 percent increase in fourth-quarter net income compared with a year ago, surpassing Wall Street's estimates. The company forecast better-than-expected earnings for the current quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.14%EST. '06 P/E: 20.46Sears HoldingsNNM: SHLDThe parent company of Sears and Kmart said it had more than doubled its fourth-quarter earnings from a year ago, with tight cost controls helping to offset weaknesses in sales.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $134.90WEEK'S CHANGE: +14.10%EST. '06 P/E: 18.31Union PacificNYSE: UNPThe railroad company raised its per-share earnings forecast for the first quarter by more than 20 percent, citing increased shipping volume and better operating margins. It also raised its outlook for the full year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $91.07WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.19%EST. '06 P/E: 18.01Wireless FacilitiesNNM: WFIIThe provider of outsourced services for the telecommunications industry reported disappointing fourth-quarter results and said it would restate financial results for two quarters.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.03WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.39%EST. '06 P/E: 24.13Goldman SachsNYSE: GSThe financial services company said its quarterly profit surged 62 percent, far surpassing Wall Street's expectations, on record revenue led by surprisingly strong results from trading stocks and bonds.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $150.36WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.24%EST. '06 P/E: 10.18Procter & GambleNYSE: PGThe consumer products company, which is a component of the Dow, lowered its third-quarter sales-growth forecast because of softer trends overseas and lower shipments to some of its retail customers.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $59.10WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.06%EST. '06 P/E: 22.57H&R BlockNYSE: HRBThe nation's largest tax preparer said it had had fewer clients in February than in the same month of 2005, but it still posted an increase in revenue. Also, New York state sued the company on charges of fraud.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.28WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.01%EST. '06 P/E: 12.53Journal RegisterNYSE: JRCThe newspaper publisher reported advertising revenue of $31.7 million for February, a decline of 4.3 percent from a year earlier. It cited a sluggish economy in its Michigan and Cleveland operations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.11WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.56%EST. '06 P/E: 11.76(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



379 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Fair Prices for Farmers: Simple Idea, Complex Reality

BYLINE: By JENNIFER ALSEVER

 BODY:
TIM TERMAN always looks for the black and white certified Fair Trade logo when he buys bags of coffee from the Mountain People's Co-op in Morgantown, W. Va. He pays nearly twice as much -- up to $10 a pound -- as he would for conventional coffee, hoping the extra dollars go to struggling farmers. 
 That's not always the case. Despite good intentions, most consumers who shop according to their social convictions don't know how much of their money makes it to the people they hope to help. Critics say too many fair trade dollars wind up in the pockets of retailers and middlemen, including nonprofit organizations.
But organizations involved in fair trade say the benefits do trickle down. Paul Rice, chief executive of TransFair USA, which controls Fair Trade certification in the United States, said the programs sometimes eliminate as many as five middlemen -- a local buyer, miller, exporter, shipper and importer -- and instead allow farmers to deal directly with an American wholesaler. ''It is empowering farmers to create a powerful export business,'' he said. ''When they do that, they can make dramatically higher prices, often two to three times higher.'' 
 If consumers pay a premium for those products, Mr. Rice said, it means the concept is working. ''They put their money where their mouth is and pay a little more.''
 TransFair USA and 19 similar nonprofit agencies in other countries collect licensing fees on each product that uses the Fair Trade label. All of them answer to an umbrella group, the Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International, based in Bonn, which also monitors the farmers and assesses fees for fair trade participation. 
 TransFair describes its logo fees as amounting to just pennies on the pound. The pennies add up. Last year, it generated $1.89 million in licensing fees from companies that used the logo. It also spent $1.7 million on salaries, travel, conferences and publications for the 40-employee organization. 
 Some critics find such expenses excessive. ''Farmers often receive very little,'' said Lawrence Solomon, managing director of the Energy Probe Research Foundation, a Canadian firm that analyzes trade and consumer issues. ''Often fair trade is sold at a premium, but the entire premium goes to the middlemen.'' 
 Fair trade programs, which promise a ''fair wage'' to family farmers, have grown rapidly. Today, 35,000 retailers and restaurants nationwide, including some McDonald's and Dunkin Donuts stores, carry products bearing the fair trade label, an increase of 60 percent in three years. 
 Since 1999, more than 100 million pounds of certified Fair Trade coffee, cocoa, tea, rice, sugar, bananas, mangoes, pineapples and grapes have been imported to the United States. Sales of fair trade coffee tripled in that time, making it the fastest-growing part of the specialty coffee business. 
 ''There are now 800,000 small-scale farmers benefiting from fair trade,'' said Rick Peyser, director of social advocacy at Green Mountain Coffee Roasters in Waterbury, Vt., which has watched its fair trade coffee products grow two to three times as fast as its conventional lines. Fair trade coffee now makes up 23 percent of its $161.5 million in annual sales.
 Still, it can be difficult for consumers to quantify the benefit they bring to farmers or to understand the complexities of the programs they ostensibly support. As many as 137 food labels, from ''salmon safe'' to ''ozone friendly,'' try to appeal to socially conscious consumers like Mr. Terman. 
 Fair Trade labels don't list the amount paid to farmers; that sum requires research. The amount can vary depending on the commodity. An analysis using information from TransFair shows that cocoa farmers get 3 cents of the $3.49 spent on a 3.5-ounce chocolate bar labeled ''organic fair trade'' sold at Target. Farmers receive 24 cents for a one-pound bag of fair trade sugar sold at Whole Foods for $3.79. 
 The coffee farmer who produced the one-pound bag of coffee purchased by Mr. Terman received $1.26, higher than the commodity rate of $1.10. But whether Mr. Terman paid $10 or $6 for that fair trade coffee, the farmer gets the same $1.26.
 ''There is no reason why fair trade should cost astronomically more than traditional products,'' Nicole Chettero, a spokeswoman for TransFair USA, said. ''We truly believe that the market will work itself out as Fair Trade certified products move from being a niche market to a mainstream option. As the demand and volume of Fair Trade certified products increase, retailers will naturally start to drop prices to remain competitive.''
 In Europe, where fair trade is more pervasive, some critics complain that retailers have taken advantage of consumers who are not price-sensitive. At one point, Britain's largest chain of coffee shops, Costa Coffee, added 18 cents to the price of a cup of cappuccino brewed from fair trade coffee. Yet the coffee cost the chain just one or two cents extra, according to research by Tim Harford, author of the book ''The Undercover Economist.'' The chain has since reduced its price for the drink. 
 ''Fair trade products make a promise that the producers will get a good deal,'' Mr. Harford said. ''They do not promise that the consumer will get a good deal. That's down to you as a savvy shopper. You can find out how much farmers are getting and reward retailers who don't try to charge you something on top.''
 Each fair trade commodity has its own fair trade price, or the lowest price farmers will receive even if conventional commodity prices fall. That price is meant to allow them to cover their cost of production and improve their lives -- by, for instance, providing money to be invested in their farms and in schools.
 Yet a price that is fair in one country may not be in another. In Brazil, ''$1.26 per pound for coffee is a fortune,'' said Kevin Knox, a coffee consultant in Boulder, Colo. ''In the forest in the mountains of Mexico, the money barely is enough to justify doing it. Their yields are small, and the costs of production are higher.'' 
 In some cases, the individual farmers may receive less than fair trade rules require because the money goes to cooperatives, which have their own directors who decide how much to pass on to farmers. 
 ''We did a breakdown and saw that sometimes, what they're paying farmers is only 70 cents to 80 cents a pound'' for coffee instead of the entire fair trade price of $1.26, said Christy Thorns, a buyer at Allegro Coffee, a roaster in Thornton, Colo., that is owned by Whole Foods. ''There are so many layers involved.'' 
 Transfair, she said, doesn't ''clearly communicate that to consumers.'' 
 Allegro is among a number of coffee and tea companies setting up their own systems to work directly with farmers and protect the environment. Allegro buys some of its coffee from fair trade farmers, but mostly it buys directly from other farmers, paying them based on quality, not market prices. In some cases, Allegro pays farmers as much as $2.25 a pound, Ms. Thorns said. 
 Starbucks, which bought 11.5 million pounds of fair trade coffee last year, has created a buying program called CAFE, for Coffee and Farmer Equity Practices, and tries to ensure quality and protect the environment as well as maintain equitable relationships with farmers. 
 The company plans to buy most of its coffee through this program, which is overseen by Scientific Certification Systems in Emeryville, Calif. Starbucks requires suppliers to provide receipts showing how each party in the supply chain was paid, but it has no fixed price for the coffee. Starbucks' Web site tells consumers about the program. 
 Still, the fair trade system, which is independent of the food industry, carries weight in the mind of Shel Horowitz, a writer in Hadley, Mass. He buys fair trade products when he can, especially cocoa, after he read a report that much of the cocoa produced in Ivory Coast uses child slave labor. 
 ''When I found out about it, I was horrified,'' said Mr. Horowitz, who asked his wife to return a package of conventional cocoa to the store. ''I didn't want to be party to that. I try to minimize the impact of my consumerism on people who have very little.''
 The Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International in Bonn audits cocoa farms to make sure children's rights are protected.
 SHOPPING activism in the United States has helped funnel $67 million to fair trade farmers and farm workers throughout Latin America, Africa and Asia since 1999, according to TransFair. Without fair trade, supporters say, some farmers have no access to market information and can often be duped into selling to middlemen at below-market prices or, if prices fall, can be forced to quit farming.
 Ms. Chettero acknowledges the fair trade system is not perfect but said it is a step toward farmers improving their lives. If not for consumers and the fair trade system, she said, ''Who else is going to do it?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Brazilian farmer picks coffee berries on a fair trade cooperative. Fair trade certification guarantees farmers a price that covers production costs and improves their lives. (Photo by David Boucherie/TransFair USA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); COFFEE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); RETAILERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); WHOLESALERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Farmers; Agriculture

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer Alsever

GEOGRAPHIC: MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (73%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



380 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Youth Is Wasted on the Generation Y Investor

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN today's ''do-it-yourself'' but ''don't know if my pension will be around tomorrow'' world of retirement, it's only natural for baby boomers to seek financial advice. 
 What's surprising, though, is the advice they want most. ''Our expectation was that it would have to do with Social Security, pensions, or health care,'' said Craig Brimhall, vice president for retirement wealth strategies at Ameriprise Financial, which recently studied attitudes on retirement.
But those topics tied for second and third place in the Ameriprise survey. Instead, a majority of older workers said what they most needed was advice on how to teach their own children about money and finances. 
 These parents may be on to something. 
 For all the mistakes older workers make saving and investing for their own retirement, their kids are doing an even worse job managing their 401(k)'s.
 Hewitt Associates, an employee benefits consulting firm based in Lincolnshire, Ill., recently studied how the different generations are handling their employer-sponsored retirement assets. 
 Among its findings are these: Only 31 percent of Generation Y workers (those age 18 to 25) eligible to participate in a tax-deferred 401(k) retirement plan are doing so. By comparison, 63 percent of eligible Generation X workers (those age 26 to 41) are using these plans, while 72 percent of baby boomers (age 42 to 59) are doing so.
 Hewitt forecasts that the average Gen Y worker at a large corporation who doesn't contribute can expect to replace just 43 percent of preretirement income upon retirement, based on current Social Security assumptions. Young workers who do take advantage of 401(k)'s stand a good chance of replacing all of their preretirement income, thanks in large part to the power of compound returns over several decades. 
 Retirement is probably the last thing on the minds of people in their 20's, who are entering the work force with college loans and credit card debt in tow.
 But what's unsettling is that even though most young workers realize that they're on their own when it comes to saving for retirement, many of those investing in 401(k)'s haven't a clue how to allocate their funds. The average Gen Y worker puts about 35 cents of every investment dollar into fixed-income options like bond funds and so-called stable-value funds, which are bond-like vehicles. This means the youngest workers are investing even more conservatively than their parents, who on average keep only 31.4 percent of their 401(k) money in bonds, according to Hewitt.
 Richard A. Davies, executive vice president for retirement and college savings at AllianceBernstein Investments, said Gen Y workers were fairly close to having a 60/40 allocation between stocks and bonds. But ''a 60/40 balance is about the right asset allocation for a 65-year-old, not a 25-year-old,'' he said.
 Why are young workers so conservative? 
 Part of it may have to do with timing, said Ivory Johnson, director of financial planning at the Scarborough Group, an investment advisory firm based in Annapolis, Md. ''When the markets went down in 2000 and 2001, that's when these kids were in college,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''So their first impression of the stock market was that it could lose lots of money.''
 Lori Lucas, Hewitt's director of retirement research, said other factors were also at work. Some young workers who sign up for 401(k)'s but fail to select investment options may be placed by their plans into the safest choices, like a money market fund. Many of these workers simply haven't gotten around to shifting money out of the default options.
 Young investors in their 20's should probably keep 90 percent if not all of 401(k) assets in a diversified mix of equities, said Mr. Davies of AllianceBernstein. 
 Why? There are two basic sets of risks when it comes to investing. The first involves potential short-term losses you can suffer by exposing money to equities. But the second -- and equally important risk -- is that over long periods, the purchasing power of your money will be eaten up by inflation.
 The younger you are -- and the more time you have to invest -- the more important it is to focus on the latter risk, said Stuart L. Ritter, a financial planner with T. Rowe Price in Baltimore. And since stocks are more effective in outrunning inflation than bonds, you should invest most of your 401(k) money in equities.
 The fact is, your 20's are an ideal time to be betting on stocks. For starters, when you're young, you have little to lose. The average Generation Y 401(k) investor has only saved $3,200, according to Hewitt.
 That means if you invested 100 percent of that money in stocks and saw your investments fall by 50 percent -- which is nearly how much the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell from its peak on March 24, 2000, to its trough on Oct. 9, 2002 -- you'd be out $1,600.
 On the other hand, the typical boomer has nearly $93,200 saved up in their 401(k), according to Hewitt. A similar all-equity position that loses 50 percent would erase $46,600. That's real money.
 BUT it's not just about potential losses. Between 1956 and 2005, a 100 percent stock allocation has generated average annual returns of 10.44 percent, according to T. Rowe Price. By contrast, a 60 percent stock, 40 percent bond and cash strategy has resulted in average annual gains of 9.09 percent -- or 1.35 percentage points less.
 While this doesn't sound like a lot, it can make a huge difference over time. AllianceBernstein found that an investor who starts contributing to a 401(k) at 25 and continues saving until 65 could end up with 10 additional years of retirement spending by adding just 1 percentage point to annual returns. 
 A simple choice for younger workers who are unsure how to invest is to put all or most of a 401(k) into a so-called target-date retirement fund. These increasingly popular options, which are also called life-cycle funds, are all-in-one portfolios that invest in a mix of stocks and bonds that are appropriate for an investor's age -- and they automatically adjust that mix over time. Most life-cycle funds suitable for people in their 20's will start off with 80 percent to 100 percent in equities. 
 It is even more important to encourage young workers who aren't currently saving to contribute to their 401(k)'s. Mr. Ritter thinks one reason why people in their 20's aren't participating is because they aren't confident they know enough to invest. ''People get concerned about making the wrong decisions,'' he said. ''So they end up making no decisions.''
 But for young workers, the wrong decision is to let your fear of investing -- and your fear of investing aggressively -- dictate your moves.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Conservative Before Their Time''Though they have more time to invest, young workers are keeping more of their 401(k) money in bonds than older investors are.Gen Y (18-25)FIXED INCOME: 34.7%DIVERSIFIED STOCK: 37.8%COMPANY STOCK: 27.3%Gen X (26-41)FIXED INCOME: 26.6%DIVERSIFIED STOCK: 47.0%COMPANY STOCK: 26.5%Baby Boomers (42-59)FIXED INCOME: 31.4%DIVERSIFIED STOCK: 42.1%COMPANY STOCK: 26.3%Figures are based on a 2005 study of how 2.5 million eligible employees and 1.6 million participants in 107 large corporate 401(k) plans managed their money.Figures do not add to 100 because of rounding.(Source by Hewitt Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); US 401K PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GENERATION Y (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); BONDS (88%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); BOND FUNDS (73%); GENERATION X (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); STUDENT LOANS (65%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Age, Chronological; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (83%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (83%); ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Ameriprise Financial; Hewitt Associates

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (83%); AB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



381 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2612 words

HEADLINE: A C.E.O. Who Wouldn't Say 'I Settle'

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

DATELINE: Sandy, Utah 

 BODY:
GARY D. KENNEDY, a 52-year-old former chief executive of a software company, was sitting on a black leather chair in his home office here in Sandy, an affluent suburb of Salt Lake City, beneath a painted portrait of his family. It was 1:15 p.m. on Dec. 15, 2005: he remembers it vividly. His wife, Jane, was standing over the fax machine when she noticed a strange expression on her husband's face. ''What is it?'' she asked. 
 Mr. Kennedy hung up the phone, looked up, and told her that the government, which had pursued a securities fraud case against him for more than five years, had decided to drop the charges.
Jane Kennedy, usually a poised and determined woman, collapsed and wept. ''It was the first time I'd let myself acknowledge what had happened to us, the hell we had been through,'' she said. 
 It was a remarkable moment, not just because Mr. Kennedy had fought the Securities and Exchange Commission for years, but because he had won, just weeks before his trial was set to begin in Salt Lake.
 For wealthy, high-profile executives under scrutiny, fighting the government is nothing new: consider Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief at American International Group; Richard A. Grasso, the former head of the New York Stock Exchange; or Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling of Enron. But few executives at small and midsize companies -- executives whose names are unknown in American living rooms and who thrive on work in public companies -- opt for war. The costs, the risks and the personal consequences are too great.
 Indeed, soon after the S.E.C. sued TenFold, Mr. Kennedy's software development company, along with him and three other executives in 2002 for accounting and disclosure issues, the company and its board of directors quickly settled. 
 By the fall of 2005, two of the three executives named with Mr. Kennedy had also chosen to settle, and charges against the third were dropped. When the S.E.C. decided not to take its case against Mr. Kennedy to trial, it also backed down on the cases against the others. 
 Mr. Kennedy's battle was driven by his fierce conviction, his deep religious faith -- and, by his own admission, a stroke of luck. Caught up in a period of unprecedented and egregious corporate fraud and a technology sector that seemed doomed, Mr. Kennedy was at the wrong place at the wrong time -- an almost hopelessly honest, accountable chief executive among a world of angry investors, defensive regulators and an unforgiving bureaucracy.
 And while the decision ultimately went his way, it came at a price. Mr. Kennedy said he felt he was abandoned by many friends, business associates and members of the Mormon community in which he had served as a church bishop and a mission president. He said he was no longer as trusting of others as he once was. 
 He said he was reluctant to sit on the board of any public company, convinced that the S.E.C. would come after the company as retribution toward him. His patience has eroded, he says. ''You don't get your reputation back,'' he said quietly.
 Mrs. Kennedy, citing the costs of the fight, including lawyers' fees and other costs covered by insurance, adds: ''Five years, $30 million and a ruined company. It's just sad.''
 BORN and raised in Randolph, Utah, a ranching community of fewer than 500 people about 75 miles northeast of Salt Lake City, Mr. Kennedy was the son of a miner and a grocery store cashier. At 18, he entered the University of Utah but interrupted his education to do three years of missionary work in Brazil. After graduating from the university, he went to the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. 
 With a freshly minted M.B.A., he landed at Intel, then a small company, in 1980. He said his time there was most influential in shaping his thinking on business, but he left for a startup software company called Oracle after a church friend introduced him to its founder, Lawrence J. Ellison. ''I was absolutely impressed with this guy,'' Mr. Kennedy says of Mr. Ellison. He was among the first dozen professional employees hired.
 In the early days, Mr. Ellison would stop by to play basketball and eat dinner with the Kennedys. During the less than a decade when he was at Oracle, sales soared from $1 million to almost $1 billion. But Mr. Kennedy said he grew frustrated with Mr. Ellison's infamous temper, and he opted to leave in 1990. ''Working for Larry directly is a strange experience,'' Mr. Kennedy says. ''He's a mercurial guy.'' (Mr. Kennedy says they remain cordial; Mr. Ellison didn't return a call for comment.)
 After Mr. Kennedy returned from a three-year stint as a Mormon mission president in Brazil, a former Oracle colleague, Jeff Walker, asked him to run TenFold, a software company Mr. Walker had founded in 1993. ''Gary was one of the best -- maybe the best -- sales executives in the software industry,'' Mr. Walker said.
 Friends warned Mr. Kennedy about returning to the egos and money of Silicon Valley. But Mr. Kennedy said he was intrigued by the company's business plan, which was to create software applications that were more tailored to clients' specific needs than off-the-shelf software, but not so customized as to make clients captive to the program designer. 
 The secret lay in technology that TenFold called the Universal Application, which the company said would let it build software solutions 10 times faster than other software companies. Such a plan was key to growth companies seeking to build agile software that could be shaped around fast-changing industries.
 Mr. Kennedy joined in 1996, when revenue was $3 million; revenue soared to $92.4 million in 1999. Clients included Allstate, Abbey National, SkyTel and Barclays Global Investors. In May 1999, Goldman Sachs took TenFold public at $17 a share. By March 2000, carried by the momentum of the tech boom, TenFold's stock price rocketed to $70.
 Then the bubble burst, and TenFold's business model followed suit. The company lost more than half of the deals it had expected to close in the second quarter -- almost all dot-com companies -- and it missed its second-quarter earnings estimates. The stock plummeted to a low of $1.06 that year.
 The earthquake that hit the company revealed deeper problems: TenFold was failing to meet its deadlines. Companies changed their product demands and TenFold had overextended itself. Legal problems were also brewing. The S.E.C., apparently tipped off by an anonymous letter, started inquiring about allegations made in the letter that TenFold had improperly accounted for a transaction and bribed a company with shares from its initial public offering to accelerate other revenue.
 At the same time, internal tensions were rending TenFold's management. Mr. Kennedy thought the company should sell its way out of the crisis while the board wanted to cut a third to a half of the company's 900 employees, according to Mr. Kennedy and two board members. By the beginning of 2001, Mr. Kennedy had resigned at the board's request, TenFold was in tatters and the S.E.C. was investigating them both. 
 ''I was unemployed, and I was unemployable,'' Mr. Kennedy said. If he joined a public company, it would have to disclose he was being investigated. If he joined a private company that intended to go public, it would also have to disclose the investigation in its offering documents. And if he joined a venture capital firm, it would have to disclose Mr. Kennedy's legal problems to investors while raising money.
 He said he slipped into bouts of depression and perked up only when he was at his ranch in Wyoming or during his son's basketball season. Many days he didn't get out of bed. When his wife would prod him to wear his seatbelt, his response, which both say was code for what they were going through, was pat: ''There are worse things than dying.''
 The Mormon community offered little support. ''The vast majority thought that I did it,'' he said. 
 A small community of Salt Lake City investors -- made up mostly of friends who knew of Mr. Kennedy's talent -- invited him to invest in their companies and work as an informal consultant. He was among the original investors in Overstock.com, the online retailer; iDirect Technologies, a satellite-based high-speed Internet provider that was just sold to a company in Singapore for $165 million; the In-Store Broadcasting Network, which provides music and sells advertising in supermarkets and drugstores; and Northface Learning, a computer-science training academy that recently changed its name to Neumont University.
 Even in the start-up community, however, problems arose. One investor who expressed interest in Neumont University backed out because Mr. Kennedy was involved, for example. Neumont -- which Mr. Kennedy helped fund -- later asked him to resign from the board because the company's president told him it could not get director and officer insurance for Mr. Kennedy.
 The success of the start-ups did little to restore Mr. Kennedy's standing. ''It's been a financial windfall,'' he said, ''but it's not that gratifying if no one wants to be associated with me.'' And there was ample evidence that was the case. Bryce Roberts, a 32-year-old venture capitalist, had frequently sought advice from Mr. Kennedy about potential investments but was encouraged by business associates to beware. ''If Gary was involved, they didn't want to be involved,'' Mr. Roberts said.
 Even the Kennedy's oldest daughter, Anne, got a taste of the acrimony when she was 21. When she joked to a friend at Brigham Young University that maybe they had all learned not to invest at the height of a stock market bubble, the friend retorted, ''Or we all learned not to trust Annie's dad.'' She winced at the memory and said, ''I still haven't come up with a pithy comeback.''
 In the five years since he left TenFold, Mr. Kennedy got only one formal job offer -- and it was from TenFold. In 2002, Mr. Bennett came to Wyoming to ask him to return. ''Gary was a hard-driving sales manager who people loved,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''People would say, 'Take the hill,' and he took it.'' Mr. Walker and the company's chief executive each traveled to Wyoming to try and broker a deal. Mr. Kennedy wasn't interested. 
 On Nov 18, 2002, almost two years after Mr. Kennedy had left TenFold, the S.E.C. sued the company, Mr. Kennedy and three other company executives. It said that Mr. Kennedy and the others -- Robert P. Hughes, the finance chief; Stanley G. Hanks, the controller; and Wynn K. Clayton, the former controller of TenFold's insurance subsidiary -- had improperly accelerated the booking of some revenue to make the company appear profitable right before it sold shares to the public. The S.E.C. also accused the company and its executives of concealing the company's tendency to miss deadlines for major software projects.
 TenFold settled right away, without admitting or denying guilt, as did the board. The executives, including Mr. Kennedy, chose to fight.
 At the time the suit was filed, the S.E.C. was facing its own tsunami. The technology bubble had burst, wiping out billions of dollars in investors' wealth just as a string of big corporate frauds -- Enron, WorldCom and Tyco, among others -- began to surface. Congress, the news media and the public, all eager to affix blame, put pressure on the S.E.C.
 WHEN the commission received an anonymous letter accusing the once highflying software company of shady accounting, it pounced. At the heart of its lawsuit was a tension common to software companies: development projects, and their notoriety for delays. Customers change what they want, designers take longer than they anticipate and some projects just die. If a project is delayed, should the chief executive disclose it? What if the company discloses the delay, a shareholder sells, and the project is then resumed?
 Two things happened to derail the government's case: a forensic accountant hired by the S.E.C. as an expert witness suggested the accounting looked legitimate, said a person familiar with the case. And TenFold, which had refused to release privileged information, was forced by the courts in the spring of 2005 to hand over documents that revealed Mr. Kennedy had sought internal and external legal advice as to what was proper to disclose and what was not. The advice from legal counsel was clear: Unless you know a project will be terminated, don't disclose it.
 ''We didn't do a good job of estimating projects, and I was running the company,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''I am happy to accept responsibility for something I did. But I won't sign to something I didn't do.'' Attempts by the S.E.C. to settle his lawsuit failed.
 Sameer Shalaby, a TenFold founder who has since left the company and founded Paladyne Systems, a software company, unreservedly supported Mr. Kennedy. ''Businesses succeed or fail, challenges come along, but this had nothing to do with fraud'' he said. ''This was a major business challenge. There was no lying or cheating or stealing.''
 As time wore on, Mr. Hughes and Mr. Hanks had opted to unusually benign settlements: Mr. Hughes would pay $35,000 and agree not to violate certain record keeping and internal control laws, and Mr. Hanks would pay no fine and agree not to violate one bookkeeping charge, their lawyers said. The S.E.C. dropped all allegations against Mr. Clayton. ''They were willing to do a settlement to get rid of the case,'' said Stuart L. Gasner, at lawyer at Keker & Van Nest who represented Mr. Hughes. 
 But when lawyers in the commission's office in Denver, which was overseeing the case, forwarded the settlements to Washington and informed the S.E.C.'s leaders that they planned to pursue a watered down case against Mr. Kennedy, the enforcement division chief, Linda Chatman Thomsen, expressed concern, and the commission voted not to proceed with the case, according to people at the meeting. As a result, the commission refused to approve settlements for junior employees without a case against the chief executive. Ms. Thomsen declined to comment. ''The decision was based on new evidence that came to light in this litigation,'' John Nester, an S.E.C. spokesman, said.
 Some people involved in the case, notably James S. Jardine, the lawyer representing Mr. Hanks and Mr. Clayton, complimented the S.E.C. for its restraint. ''It was the right thing to do on the facts of the case and I give credit to the government for recognizing it and doing the right thing,'' he said.
 The Kennedys are not as forgiving. Mr. Kennedy now runs RemedyMD, which aggregates data for doctors to assist in medical decisions. He says his goal is ''not to take the company public.'' He refers to the ordeal as the ''five-year invasion'' and questions the case against those on trial today, like Enron's Kenneth L. Lay. His faith and marriage are strengthened he says, but not his faith in a system of checks and balances.
 The Kennedys are thinking about leaving Salt Lake City. ''I want to start over,'' Mrs. Kennedy said.
 TenFold is a penny stock today, with 66 employees. Mr. Walker, a founder, remains a believer in the Universal Application, now called Enterprise TenFold. Mr. Kennedy said he thought the company would need a dramatic overhaul to survive.
 Few who know Mr. Kennedy were surprised by his decision to fight, although they may not know that his insurance company offered to settle the case for $100,000 and infraction-like charges, his lawyer says. All that, for him, was beside the point.
 ''I've never been able to get through to people, it's not about calculating the best outcome,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''It's about right and wrong.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After five years, the Securities and Exchange Commission dropped its charges against Gary Kennedy, the former chief executive of TenFold. (Photo by George Frey for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Gary Kennedy with his wife Jane, left, and daughter Anne. Mr. Kennedy is now chief executive of RemedyMD. (Photo by George Frey for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); RELIGION (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (63%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%) Suits and Litigation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Biographical Information

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%) Tenfold Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Gary Kennedy; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



382 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Before There Was Enron, There Was Insull

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
LONG before Enron, a young Chicago financier began building and buying utility companies. He promoted electricity to housewives, peddled his stock to their husbands and amassed (thanks to his cunning grasp of finance) an energy empire spanning most of the country. 
 It is long past time for wondering how such a fable might have ended. Has this country ever produced a financial magician who did not end his days fighting prosecution and public disgrace? 
Samuel Insull, at any rate, was not the exception. What is surprising about his tale is how little, today, he is remembered. Son of a London dairyman, he emigrated to the United States in 1881, at age 21, to serve as private secretary to his hero, Thomas Edison. Finding Edison's intellectual gifts to be in good repair but his businesses otherwise, the young Insull set about trying to shore up the shaky finances of Edison's companies. 
 In 1892, he was supplanted by J. P. Morgan, who reorganized Edison's empire into General Electric. This freed Insull to decamp for Chicago, and a position with one of that city's 45 fledgling electric companies. 
 We tend to think the invention of the light bulb led directly to an illuminated world, but the truth is otherwise. One accomplishment of John F. Wasik's ''The Merchant of Power: Sam Insull, Thomas Edison, and the Creation of the Modern Metropolis'' (Palgrave Macmillan, $24.95) is to remind us that before there was power coming out of the wall, someone had to develop and finance generating stations. In the 1880's, only a magnate like Morgan had power in his home. By the 1890's, power stations existed, but they were unreliable and tended to clog the unfortunate cities where they were located with noise and a filmy carboniferous dust.
 It was not until after World War I that moguls like Insull conceived of broadening the market for electricity by hawking appliances like the electric iron, fan and washing machine -- such was the perceived liberating potential for women that Insull's advertisements boasted of ''The Suffrage and the Switch.''
 By the Roaring Twenties, Insull was one of the country's foremost power brokers. He controlled utilities in 5,000 towns in 32 states, as well as a network of electrified railroads coursing out from Chicago. In charting Insull's rise, Mr. Wasik always has one eye on the transformative nature of the product. Electric power, he observes, literally lengthened people's days. Not only the nature of housework, but the layout of buildings was altered. Kitchen sizes shrank as people no longer needed so many servants (until, in recent times, they expanded to accommodate the fashion for massive granite countertops and wall-sized TV's).
 Insull recognized that electric power, like the automobile, had to be affordable and widely distributed. To keep prices fair, he advocated state regulation of monopolies, and seemed to epitomize the enlightened industrialist championed by Herbert Hoover. With a Babbitt-like belief in progress, Insull dispatched an army of employees to flog electric appliances and, just as relentlessly, his various companies' soaring shares. 
 Power for everyone was fine; power owned by everyone was another matter. The Jazz Age exposed gaping economic inequalities, and Midwestern Progressives increasingly called for public power, especially for rural communities where electrification lagged. Insull bitterly counterattacked, often by financing legislative allies. Exposure led to scandal and to accusations that he was fleecing his customers. Ineluctably, Insull caught the eye of an ambitious Eastern reformer, Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was seeking to fence in the ''Power Trust'' and Insull in particular. 
 Hubris is not the worst crime -- merely the one that guarantees the surest retribution. And Insull's capital structure was more reckless than his politics. Addicted to debt, he pioneered a corporate form -- the holding company -- in which one company was literally stacked atop another. This allowed him to control an empire worth $500 million with only a tiny $27 million sliver of equity. Come the crash, some 65 of his enterprises were perched like the unlucky subjects of Yertle the Turtle: down they went. Insull fled to Greece, leaving 600,000 shareholders ruined. He returned to face federal prosecution and was likened to Al Capone.
 The timing of Mr. Wasik's book would seem to be perfect. The Enron trial is headline news (take heart, Ken Lay; Insull beat the rap), and the Roosevelt-era law designed to avoid a recurrence of Insulls, the Public Utility Holding Company Act, was repealed only in 2005. 
 Drawing a contrast between Insull and today's corporate miscreants, Mr. Wasik observes that Insull's shoddy financial disclosures did not violate the porous securities laws of his day. Nonetheless, Mr. Wasik cannot quite bring himself to deliver an exoneration. Though he labels Insull a ''scoundrel,'' elsewhere and often he sticks up for him as a well-intentioned businessman who was as surprised by the stock market crash as everyone else. (One careless error: Black Thursday was Oct. 24, 1929 -- not Oct. 13, as the author says.) And as Insull veers toward his tragic end, the author quotes both Insull and his accusers, but fails to render a verdict of his own. 
 PERHAPS as a result, we are never quite sure whether to feel for Insull or to loathe him. He is an elusive subject, to be sure. He had few intimates other than a wife from whom he became largely estranged. Though a patron of the arts who built an opera house for the masses, his oily reserve tended to repel; as the author says, he was ''not the congenial type.'' 
 When Mr. Wasik offhandedly refers to his subject's ''three breakdowns'' from stress, we are startled into realizing how little about the man we know. His 31,000-square-foot mansion with dining-room seating for 64 is described in painstaking detail, but whom did Insull entertain and what did he do there?
 True to his title, Mr. Wasik has portrayed the era, even to excess (we don't really need a retelling of the Scopes trial), but he has not fully drawn Insull himself from the shadows.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Electric Light and Power; Reviews; Books and Literature

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Sam Insull; Thomas A (1847-1931) Edison; John F Wasik; Roger Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



383 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Who's the Man?

BYLINE: By WALTER KIRN. 
Walter Kirn is a regular contributor to the Book Review. His most recent novel is ''Mission to America.''

 BODY:
MANLINESS
 By Harvey C. Mansfield.
 289 pp. Yale University Press. $27.50.
REMEMBER those great old ''Saturday Night Live'' bits about the moronic Germanic bodybuilders who kept offering to ''pump you up'' while flexing the delts of their bulbous foam rubber muscle suits? Remember how unwittingly fey they seemed, partly because of their wagging little pinheads but mostly because of the way they loved the words ''girly'' and ''manly'' -- a pair of usages that was poignantly out of date by then among even minimally hip Americans? Remember that? 
 Apparently, Harvey C. Mansfield doesn't. In fact, this Harvard professor of government and the author of ''Manliness'' (yep), a new polemic about the nature and value of masculinity, shows little awareness of much that's happened recently -- televisually and otherwise -- in the allegedly feminized culture that he aims to shake up. Like Austin Powers (who, come to think of it, made even more fun of ''manly'' than Hans and Franz), Mansfield seems stuck in a semantic time warp in which it is still possible to write sentences like ''Though it's clear that women can be manly, it's just as clear that they are not as manly or as often manly as men.'' A time warp where it's further possible -- in a passage on the sexes' characteristic senses of humor -- to cite an event from over 40 years ago as his one and only illustration of feminine wit. I'll quote it at length because Mansfield likes to write at length (and in a pipe-smokey academic baritone that I for one thought had vanished from this planet).
 ''But I cannot accept that they never make jokes. Women excel in put-downs. . . . During the trial over the Profumo scandal in Britain in 1963, counsel asked Mandy Rice-Davies, a witness to prostitution, whether she knew that Lord Astor had denied any impropriety in his relationship with her. Her answer: 'Well he would, wouldn't he?' It's a put-down joke, reactive to male bluster, even equipped with an ironic tag question.''
 In just which far-off galaxy has Mansfield set up his telescope to scrutinize the doings of us earthlings? Or, if he dwells among us, when was the last time he left the faculty club? Let's put these mysteries aside, though -- as well as the puzzle of how a writer can purport to analyze human humor (even flat-footedly and badly) while remaining personally immune to it -- and move on to the essence of Mansfield's argument, to the hot sweaty groin of it, the manly crux.
 ''Manliness'' starts in a fussy lecture-hall mode with Mansfield taking the wordy, long way around to prove a few points about the male and female -- that they're innately different, and in exactly the ways people always thought they were before they did any thinking on the subject. He may as well just pound the table, since those who don't agree with him already won't have their minds changed by the case he makes (which largely consists of reassuring us that the case has been made by others). ''Our science,'' Mansfield writes (slyly suggesting with a possessive adjective that he is, indeed, a fellow Homo sapiens) ''rather clumsily confirms the stereotypes about manliness. . . . But we already knew before science told us that men are more aggressive than women: is there also something to be learned in this fact?'' 
 The answer is meant to be, ''yes,'' of course (or, rather, ''yes, professor''), but a reading of Mansfield's book suggests it's ''no.'' No, there is actually nothing to be learned from deciding that we've known everything all along about how men are a mixture of pluck and pride and a certain primordial selfish-unselfishness that would rather die than live unfree, but which, if permitted to live free, isn't afraid to kill, if necessary -- especially to protect the weak.
 But just because there's nothing to be learned doesn't mean there's not plenty to be lectured on. Once Mansfield has put science squarely on his side, he moves on to literature and laboriously demonstrates that when it comes to matters manly, the work of Homer, Kipling and Hemingway is just as we remembered it from our high school days. He pays special attention to ''The Old Man and the Sea,'' Papa's least complex statement of these themes, which reads nowadays like a novel for young adults, and pays no attention to the less well-known posthumous books (like ''The Garden of Eden'') involving cross-dressing and so on. Conclusion: ''The manly man, as we say, 'makes a statement.' '' And: ''The old man is portrayed as thinking for himself.''
 After a section on the history of ''the great explosion of manliness that took place in the late 19th and early 20th centuries''(an image that gives even me, a straight man, erotic chills), it's time for Mansfield to stop preheating the oven and cook up the geese he's already got trussed and cleaned: the feminists. Remember the feminists? These would be the late Betty Friedan and the even later Simone de Beauvoir, along with the somewhat more recent, but not very recent, Kate Millet, Germaine Greer and so on. 
 These thinkers are all somewhat different from one another, Mansfield carefully shows, but they also have something profound in common: they stole their best ideas, by and large, from two great men. From Marx they pilfered their economic theories. From Nietzsche they swiped their ''nihilism.'' For Mansfield, nihilism is the idea that in a godless universe people are free to invent their own identities. At least I think that's what he means. Next to ''manly,'' ''nihilism'' is Mansfield's favorite word, and it shows up in such a variety of contexts, attached to so many names and objects, that he might as well have rendered it as ''X,'' as in: Simone de Beauvoir + all those other gals + the fact that they're female + the notion that ''becoming manlike is a strange way of proving you are independent of men (ladylike would seem to be a better way)'' = X.
 After making what he believes to be a meal of all these clucking hens that think they're roosters, Mansfield wipes up the grease by going back to Aristotle and something called ''philosophical courage,'' which is held out as the manliest manliness yet, and something that we, in these trying times of ours, could use a whole lot more of. ''Extreme manliness,'' he warns us, is not the answer, though, nor is returning women to the kitchen and holding them there with the threat of a sound flogging. Still, they may want to remain there voluntarily once they understand, as Mansfield does, that ''weaker than men, women have to be indirect in getting what they want; they cannot simply insist.''
 Hear him now, believe him later.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); MEN (75%); SCANDALS (72%); LITERATURE (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Walter Kirn; Harvey C Mansfield

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (73%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



384 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; ON POETRY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: A 'Neglected' Master

BYLINE: By David Orr

 BODY:
Modern poetry is long on Lucite but short on cash. As Philip Larkin once put it, a good poet has no trouble amassing ''medals and prizes and honorary this-and-thats . . . but if you turned round and said, Right, if I'm so good, give me an index-linked permanent income equal to what I can get for being an undistinguished university administrator -- well, reason would remount its throne pretty quickly.'' Larkin was British, but his remark applies just as well to American poetry, which often has been a game for the amply trust-funded (Stein, Lowell, Bishop, Merrill) with occasional participation from the upper-middle class, and only rare appearances by actual po' folks (James Wright). Larkin's observation also helps explain why ''medals and prizes and honorary this-and-thats'' can be as important in the poetry world as the currency they so closely resemble. After all, when what you're mostly hoping to earn is prestige, the coin of the realm is the gold star sticker. 
And the thing about stickers is, they're awfully easy to print. One of the main points of James F. English's recent study of cultural awards, ''The Economy of Prestige,'' is that prizes have been proliferating rapidly for at least a hundred years and probably won't stop doing so anytime soon. To which a poet can only say: no kidding. Maybe you've written a short poem that addresses ''a philosophical or epistemological concern''? The Cecil Hemley Memorial Award from the Poetry Society of America may be in the cards. How about a few lines inspired by ''a very famous White Leghorn hen who was raised by the Oregon State Agricultural Experiment Station''? Look no farther than the Lady MacDuff Poetry Book Contest. Nor is it a coincidence that both these prizes are memorial awards -- as English astutely notes, prizes are often given ''in memoriam'' because we intuitively connect cultural awards with concepts like timelessness and immortality. 
 So there may soon be a blue ribbon for almost every kind of poetic achievement, and each such trophy will claim to stand for something that transcends day-to-day life, with all its humdrum compromises, A.T.M. withdrawals and funerals. We may be poor, but we'll be permanently prized. The surest sign that this state of affairs is already taking shape is (naturally) an award -- one that takes the memorial function and simultaneously amplifies and reverses it. This is what you might call the Prize for Not Getting Enough Prizes. There are several awards that play on this theme, but the most interesting recent variation is the product of two institutions that have plenty of old-fashioned capital to go along with the cultural kind: the Library of America (recipient of grants from, well, everybody) and the Poetry Foundation (which has $100 million from Eli Lilly in its coffers). The accolade they've come up with is the ''Neglected Masters Award,'' and its first recipient is the New York poet Samuel Menashe, whose ''New and Selected Poems'' is being published by the Library as part of the prize's mandate.
 The first thing to be said about all this is that calling someone a ''neglected master'' makes for one hell of a left-handed compliment. Beyond that, however, bestowing an award for neglected mastery is a gesture so fraught with contradictions, ambiguities and obscure hopes and fears that it risks confusion at best, incoherence at worst. First, there's that strangely self-refuting title -- presumably Menashe can no longer be considered ''neglected'' after getting recognized for his unjustly ignored brilliance, can he? Then there's the notion that the appropriate cure for neglect is an award with the word ''neglected'' in its name. Then there's the implicit assumption that mastery is something we can identify with certainty in our own lifetimes (after all, if we have ''neglected masters,'' we must have some ''un-neglected'' masters). Related to this is the poetry world's obsession with and fear of its own marginality, which in this case results in the hopeful application of the word ''neglected'' to a single older poet from the West Village, when one easily could argue that the entire art form -- even the Lord of the Prize, John Ashbery -- is about as neglected as neglected gets. But above all else is the assumption that the awards system is the appropriate and inescapable measure of artistic worth. When we give a prize for ''neglected mastery,'' we aren't just celebrating a good poet, we're conspicuously correcting a system error -- and we care only about the mistakes of systems that we think have some claim to legitimacy. Is that really what we believe about poetry prizes?
 Before answering that question, it's worth remembering that the one tangible result of the ''Neglected Masters Award'' is a new book by Samuel Menashe. It's only fair to ask: Does this collection help justify the muddled honorific that gave it life? It does. Menashe, who is now 80, has struggled with American publishers for decades, but he's been celebrated by British and Irish poets like Austin Clarke, Donald Davie and Stephen Spender (the editor of this volume is the Oxford professor of poetry and would-be Bob Dylan sideman Christopher Ricks). Menashe's difficulties in his home country probably have a lot to do with the fact that, as an American poet, he appears to have done almost everything wrong. He didn't teach creative writing, didn't ally himself with his more sociable peers, didn't serve on many committees and didn't finagle his way into many anthologies. He appears mostly to have just . . . written poetry. 
 Fortunately, he happens to have done it well. Menashe is a curious and meticulous writer -- the poems here are no longer than a page, most have very short lines, they're either unpunctuated or very carefully and lightly punctuated, and they rely on tricky rhyme and assonance schemes to carry observations that Ricks describes as ''apophthegms'' and a nonprofessor might call ''proverbs.'' Basically, each poem reads as if it's been handblown, filled with an exactly measured dose of Wisdom and then polished 9,000 times by the world's most precisely folded chamois. Here's ''The Niche,'' which is a kind of statement of Menashian principles:
 The niche narrows
 Hones one thin
 Until his bones
 Disclose him
 Like many Menashe poems, this one gets better the more you think about it. The idea that the self is unveiled by a process of reduction is balanced by the suggestion that the ''niche'' itself -- one's lot in life, one's choices as an artist -- may be creating the kind of self that can be so revealed. Or to put it another way: Is it the man that's found in the niche, or the niche that makes the man? (It's also worth noting the buried joke on the phrase ''the clothes make the man.'' Here the bones ''disclose'' -- dis-clothe -- the true self.) The poem is a considerable technical achievement; as Donald Davie notes, Menashe sets up two chains of assonance (the short ''i'' in ''niche,'' the long ''o'' in ''narrows'') and then follows them through each line to their union in the keystone word ''disclose.'' This kind of thing is a lot harder to do than it looks.
 And Menashe does it over and over. He's a wry but essentially optimistic poet, and his best writing demonstrates that the stylistic limitations we choose quickly cease to be limitations, even when we identify them as such (''A pot poured out / Fulfills its spout''). Among the strongest poems here are ''At Cross Purposes,'' ''Descent,'' ''Sleep,'' ''Beachhead'' (a great war poem) and ''At a Standstill'' -- any one of which will be as appealing to a reader not deeply acquainted with American poetry as it will to a fellow poet familiar with the austere Dickinsonian school to which Menashe belongs. However it comes to us, this is a book well worth reading. Does it matter, then, whether the author of that book is a ''neglected master,'' as duly sanctioned by the prize system, an Oxford professor of poetry and two organizations with lots of money? Sadly or not, yes. With the fading of transcendent ideals in certain areas of American life comes the inevitable fading of the dream of unsullied, undying art -- and the nostalgic desire for prizes that remind us of that dream, if nothing else. But just because dreams are involved doesn't mean consequences aren't real: we're a more mystical and nostalgic culture than is usually thought, and the poetry world has every right to sell itself on that basis. It's worth wondering, though, as we give away another medallion for Best Thing Having to Do With Poetry, what kind of heaven we may be buying for ourselves, and at what very earthly cost.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (65%) Books and Literature; Poetry and Poets; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Neglected Masters Award; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: Library of America; Poetry Foundation

PERSON: David Orr; Samuel Menashe

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



385 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Home Sweet Debt

 BODY:
I appreciate the nostalgia for the riskless days of yore posed by Walter Kirn, some of which is surely tongue-in-cheek. More paths are closing and fewer new ones are emerging for economic self-empowerment that would allow you to manage all the risks of keeping, selling and optimizing the value of your home. We Americans of all incomes will need to manage more risks (not fewer) and become more sophisticated (not less) to actually live our lives. 
 Think of our 6.2 billion neighbors worldwide, many of whom do not have permanent housing (nor insurance for the shacks they might have). Maybe we need to take a short trip to the favelas of Brazil, the shantytowns of India or the apartment housing of Eastern Europe to remind ourselves how good we have it. Can we continue to adapt, grow and stretch ourselves?

R. Paul Herman
 San Francisco

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (86%); HOME PRICES (70%) Housing

PERSON: R Paul Herman; Walter Kirn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



386 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Clear and Present Dangers

BYLINE: By Alan Brinkley. 
Alan Brinkley is the Allan Nevins professor of history and the provost at Columbia University.

 BODY:
AMERICAN 
 THEOCRACY
 The Peril and Politics
 of Radical Religion, Oil, and Borrowed Money in the 21st Century.
 By Kevin Phillips.
 462 pp. Viking. $26.95.
OUR decades ago, Kevin Phillips, a young political strategist for the Republican Party, began work on what became a remarkable book. In writing ''The Emerging Republican Majority'' (published in 1969), he asked a very big question about American politics: How would the demographic and economic changes of postwar America shape the long-term future of the two major parties? His answer, startling at the time but now largely unquestioned, is that the movement of people and resources from the old Northern industrial states into the South and the West (an area he enduringly labeled the ''Sun Belt'') would produce a new and more conservative Republican majority that would dominate American politics for decades. Phillips viewed the changes he predicted with optimism. A stronger Republican Party, he believed, would restore stability and order to a society experiencing disorienting and at times violent change. Shortly before publishing his book, he joined the Nixon administration to help advance the changes he had foreseen. 
 Phillips has remained a prolific and important political commentator in the decades since, but he long ago abandoned his enthusiasm for the Republican coalition he helped to build. His latest book (his 13th) looks broadly and historically at the political world the conservative coalition has painstakingly constructed over the last several decades. No longer does he see Republican government as a source of stability and order. Instead, he presents a nightmarish vision of ideological extremism, catastrophic fiscal irresponsibility, rampant greed and dangerous shortsightedness. (His final chapter is entitled ''The Erring Republican Majority.'') In an era of best-selling jeremiads on both sides of the political divide, ''American Theocracy'' may be the most alarming analysis of where we are and where we may be going to have appeared in many years. It is not without polemic, but unlike many of the more glib and strident political commentaries of recent years, it is extensively researched and for the most part frighteningly persuasive.
 Although Phillips is scathingly critical of what he considers the dangerous policies of the Bush administration, he does not spend much time examining the ideas and behavior of the president and his advisers. Instead, he identifies three broad and related trends -- none of them new to the Bush years but all of them, he believes, exacerbated by this administration's policies -- that together threaten the future of the United States and the world. One is the role of oil in defining and, as Phillips sees it, distorting American foreign and domestic policy. The second is the ominous intrusion of radical Christianity into politics and government. And the third is the astonishing levels of debt -- current and prospective -- that both the government and the American people have been heedlessly accumulating. If there is a single, if implicit, theme running through the three linked essays that form this book, it is the failure of leaders to look beyond their own and the country's immediate ambitions and desires so as to plan prudently for a darkening future.
 The American press in the first days of the Iraq war reported extensively on the Pentagon's failure to post American troops in front of the National Museum in Baghdad, which, as a result, was looted of many of its great archaeological treasures. Less widely reported, but to Phillips far more meaningful, was the immediate posting of troops around the Iraqi Oil Ministry, which held the maps and charts that were the key to effective oil production. Phillips fully supports an explanation of the Iraq war that the Bush administration dismisses as conspiracy theory -- that its principal purpose was to secure vast oil reserves that would enable the United States to control production and to lower prices. (''Think of Iraq as a military base with a very large oil reserve underneath,'' an oil analyst said a couple of years ago. ''You can't ask for better than that.'') Terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, tyranny, democracy and other public rationales were, Phillips says, simply ruses to disguise the real motivation for the invasion.
 And while this argument may be somewhat too simplistic to explain the complicated mix of motives behind the war, it is hard to dismiss Phillips's larger argument: that the pursuit of oil has for at least 30 years been one of the defining elements of American policy in the world; and that the Bush administration -- unusually dominated by oilmen -- has taken what the president deplored recently as the nation's addiction to oil to new and terrifying levels. The United States has embraced a kind of ''petro-imperialism,'' Phillips writes, ''the key aspect of which is the U.S. military's transformation into a global oil-protection force,'' and which ''puts up a democratic facade, emphasizes freedom of the seas (or pipeline routes) and seeks to secure, protect, drill and ship oil, not administer everyday affairs.''
 Phillips is especially passionate in his discussion of the second great force that he sees shaping contemporary American life -- radical Christianity and its growing intrusion into government and politics. The political rise of evangelical Christian groups is hardly a secret to most Americans after the 2004 election, but Phillips brings together an enormous range of information from scholars and journalists and presents a remarkably comprehensive and chilling picture of the goals and achievements of the religious right. 
 He points in particular to the Southern Baptist Convention, once a scorned seceding minority of the American Baptist Church but now so large that it dominates not just Baptism itself but American Protestantism generally. The Southern Baptist Convention does not speak with one voice, but almost all of its voices, Phillips argues, are to one degree or another highly conservative. On the far right is a still obscure but, Phillips says, rapidly growing group of ''Christian Reconstructionists'' who believe in a ''Taliban-like'' reversal of women's rights, who describe the separation of church and state as a ''myth'' and who call openly for a theocratic government shaped by Christian doctrine. A much larger group of Protestants, perhaps as many as a third of the population, claims to believe in the supposed biblical prophecies of an imminent ''rapture'' -- the return of Jesus to the world and the elevation of believers to heaven. 
 Prophetic Christians, Phillips writes, often shape their view of politics and the world around signs that charlatan biblical scholars have identified as predictors of the apocalypse -- among them a war in Iraq, the Jewish settlement of the whole of biblical Israel, even the rise of terrorism. He convincingly demonstrates that the Bush administration has calculatedly reached out to such believers and encouraged them to see the president's policies as a response to premillennialist thought. He also suggests that the president and other members of his administration may actually believe these things themselves, that religious belief is the basis of policy, not just a tactic for selling it to the public. Phillips's evidence for this disturbing claim is significant, but not conclusive. 
 THE third great impending crisis that Phillips identifies is also, perhaps, the best known -- the astonishing rise of debt as the precarious underpinning of the American economy. He is not, of course, the only observer who has noted the dangers of indebtedness. The New York Times columnist Paul Krugman, for example, frequently writes about the looming catastrophe. So do many more-conservative economists, who point especially to future debt -- particularly the enormous obligation, which Phillips estimates at between $30 trillion and $40 trillion, that Social Security and health care demands will create in the coming decades. The most familiar debt is that of the United States government, fueled by soaring federal budget deficits that have continued (with a brief pause in the late 1990's) for more than two decades. But the national debt -- currently over $8 trillion -- is only the tip of the iceberg. There has also been an explosion of corporate debt, state and local bonded debt, international debt through huge trade imbalances, and consumer debt (mostly in the form of credit-card balances and aggressively marketed home-mortgage packages). Taken together, this present and future debt may exceed $70 trillion.
 The creation of a national-debt culture, Phillips argues, although exacerbated by the policies of the Bush administration, has been the work of many people over many decades -- among them Alan Greenspan, who, he acidly notes, blithely and irresponsibly ignored the rising debt to avoid pricking the stock-market bubble it helped produce. It is most of all a product of the ''financialization'' of the American economy -- the turn away from manufacturing and toward an economy based on moving and managing money, a trend encouraged, Phillips argues persuasively, by the preoccupation with oil and (somewhat less persuasively) with evangelical belief in the imminent rapture, which makes planning for the future unnecessary. 
 There is little in ''American Theocracy'' that is wholly original to Phillips, as he frankly admits by his frequent reference to the work of other writers and scholars. What makes this book powerful in spite of the familiarity of many of its arguments is his rare gift for looking broadly and structurally at social and political change. By describing a series of major transformations, by demonstrating the relationships among them and by discussing them with passionate restraint, Phillips has created a harrowing picture of national danger that no American reader will welcome, but that none should ignore.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, addressing an evangelical Christian rally via teleconference, April 24, 2005. (Photograph by Associated Press)(Photograph by Katherine Lambert) Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); TRENDS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Alan Brinkley; Kevin Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



387 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Home Economics

 BODY:
My compliments to Jon Gertner for his wonderfully informative article on Edward L. Glaeser, the Harvard economist who has been revitalizing urban economics (March 5). I enjoyed the details of his investigations of factors affecting the supply of housing and other structures that may help to explain their rapid increase in value in major cities. When I was growing up, I watched my father, an urban planner, write very detailed zoning codes for small, fast-growing cities. Reading your article, I now realize that I may have my father and his profession to thank in part for the rapid appreciation in the value of my house. 

Myles Boylan
 Silver Spring, Md. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (87%); HOME PRICES (87%); ZONING (84%) Urban Areas

PERSON: Myles Boylan; Jon Gertner; Edward L (Prof) Glaeser

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



388 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Home Economics

 BODY:
To propose that it is a breakthrough for a University of Chicago-trained economist to ''discover'' that government intervention, in this case through zoning and permits, distorts the market and raises the prices of housing excessively is equivalent to expressing surprise that a fox thinks there should be more free-range chickens. 
 There are many unmeasured variables in the article, including the simple one that families with children usually do not prefer to live in high-rise buildings. There are a growing number of economists who think that culture, taste and psychology matter in making economic decisions.

Richard P. Taub
 Chicago 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); FAMILY (87%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (84%); POULTRY (84%) Urban Areas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: Richard P Taub; Edward L (Prof) Glaeser

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



389 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Having a Blast, for a Good Cause

BYLINE: By MAGGIE MASTER

 BODY:
COLIN PEPPARD doesn't exactly conjure the image of a philanthropist. Lanky with a mop of tousled hair, he works for a nonprofit and rides public transportation most places. Mr. Peppard has never been invited to a black-tie gala charity event, nor has he written any $500 checks to save the children, the dolphins or the rain forests. Young, male and short on expendable income, Mr. Peppard is, by all demographic qualifiers, the anti-donor. 
 Yet at the starting line of the first Idiotarod D.C., a five-kilometer race in which teams of six costumed participants navigate shopping carts through Washington's streets, Mr. Peppard, 25, and his gaggle of rowdy teammates, the Columbia Cobras, have charity on their minds.
Wearing a motley assortment of ripped T-shirts, firefighter hats, grass skirts and leis, and pushing a grocery cart modeled after their much-loved neighborhood bus, the No. 42, his team traded a collective $30 and a bag of canned goods for the promise of a raucous afternoon navigating the streets of the capital. 
 Sponsored by Society for Mature Adults Seeking to Help Entertain and Donate (also known as Smashed), the event raised $500 and 115 pounds of food for a local food bank. 
 The amount may be small potatoes in fund-raising terms, but those who work in the world of philanthropy say events like the Idiotarod reflect a growing trend among young donors. Pressed for cash, driven to make a difference, yet turned off by the seated dinners of conventional charity efforts, enterprising young fund-raisers across the country are turning to dodgeball tournaments, scavenger hunts, mustache-growing contests and a host of other unusual incentives to raise money for homeless shelters or hurricane victims. 
 ''There's an innovativeness there that goes beyond the baby boomer generation,'' said Michael Nilsen, public affairs director of the Association of Fundraising Professionals. ''They want to get involved with the more regular mainstream charities but by doing something outside of the mainstream rather than just sending their checks.'' 
 One basic economic principle seems to apply: It's easier to get friends to fork over $5 or $10 when they're having fun. The most common method of fund-raising for these new groups is collective giving: pooling resources and smaller amounts of money to make big contributions. This type of fund-raising has been around for centuries, but those who work in the world of philanthropy say it has flourished in the last 10 to 15 years. 
 ''The genesis really started during the technology boom,'' said Buffy Beaudoin-Schwartz, communications director for the Association of Baltimore Area Grantmakers, a group dedicated to promoting private philanthropy. Then, she said, it accelerated thanks to the Internet and online fund-raising efforts. 
 Mustaches for Kids began in 1999 in Los Angeles as a bet between friends to see who could grow a better mustache, the loser donating money to the Make-a-Wish Foundation. The next year the founders were no longer involved, but through word of mouth and e-mail, the concept spread to San Francisco and New York, with volunteers accepting pledges to grow mustaches from Thanksgiving to Christmas. 
 Seven years and more than 300 hard-earned mustaches later, the organization has chapters across the United States and Canada and has raised more than $100,000 for Make-a-Wish.
 ''Once you get into a six-digit number, it makes you realize what a little bit here and a little bit there brought under one umbrella can do,'' said Mitch Goldman, one of the New York organizers. In an event Mr. Goldman, 30, places somewhere between a beauty pageant and a police lineup, growers must pass through the rites of mustache passage, including a beer foam retention round and a mustache ''dance off.'' 
 Though the kitsch factor drove interest for years, Mr. Goldman said that at some point he began to feel that participants weren't connected enough to the cause. Last year, prompted by Hurricane Katrina, the New York organizers switched charities and funneled their donations to the New Orleans Children's Hospital.
 The effect was immediate. The number of participants doubled, and more than 40 people raised $13,000 for the hospital, a Mustaches for Kids record. 
 ''Even after five years and many thousands of dollars, it seemed like we were hardly a blip on their radar,'' Mr. Goldman said of Make-a-Wish. ''Not that we need special thanks, but it was much more gratifying to be doing something for an organization that really seemed to value our efforts, and who had a more immediate need for donations.''
 Large-scale charities should take note of small charities' innovations, said Sandra Miniutti, a spokeswoman for Charity Navigator, an organization that analyzes the health of nonprofit groups. ''Savvy charities are looking toward the future,'' she said. ''They know they need to cultivate the younger donor.'' 
 Concerned with a scarcity of under-40 givers and an aging base, she said, some charities are actively trying to lure the next generation of donors in more social and creative ways. 
 One such group, she said, is the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, which has begun to seek younger donors through events like bachelor auctions and marathon training programs, in which volunteers commit to raising a certain amount of money in exchange for being trained for the race.
 ''You have to be creative,'' said Nancy Klein, vice president for the society's marketing communications. ''You are always looking to reach out to different audiences with different interests and bring them something that's going to excite them and keep them interested in raising funds for your cause.'' 
 But some young people find raising a few thousand dollars overwhelming. Jaime Rosa, a teacher who lives in Portland, Ore., pledged to raise $3,400 for a June triathlon benefiting the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Living on a teacher's salary with most of her friends similarly short of cash, however, she soon realized she was in over her head.
 She was just about to drop out when a friend suggested they raise money by starting a charity event of their own: a dodgeball tournament in which participants pay to play. 
 Though the game is still in the planning stages, she thinks the fund-raising will be easier because of the social nature of the event, she said. ''They will get a little more out of their money than just sending in a check,'' Ms. Rosa added.
 While wine tastings, dating auctions and marathon teams may be a step in the right demographic direction, the success of urban shopping-cart races and mustaches for giving's sake proves that for young professionals there's a charitable market for the ridiculous. Especially when ridiculousness is a luxury to be relished. 
 David Cranor, a 34-year-old NASA scientist, shaved a Mohawk before the Idiotarod to pay tribute to his team's inspiration: Mr. T. Beads of sweat glistened on the newly exposed scalp, sparkling like the gold medallions on Mr. Cranor's chest. 
 He said the Mohawk would be gone by 9 a.m. Monday, when his shopping-cart racing alter ego would take a back seat to spacecraft operations engineer.
 NASA, Mr. Cranor noted, is not much for silliness.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CARING HAIR -- Nick Leavens, left, Zeke Feldman, center, and Jeff Mathews in the growing phase of raising money for Mustaches for Kids. (Photo by Zane Stumbrs)
 GOODY FOUR-WHEELS -- Participants in the Idiotarod D.C. had to race shopping carts through Washington. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); TRENDS (64%); HURRICANES (63%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (58%)

PERSON: Maggie Master

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (78%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



390 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Suing To Block Smoking Ban

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
A month before most indoor smoking is to be banned in New Jersey, a coalition of restaurants, bars and bowling alleys asked a federal judge last Wednesday to block the prohibition from taking effect. 
 The opponents of the ban, scheduled to begin April 15, have already filed a lawsuit against the state, saying that the ban would unfairly harm their businesses. The federal court filing seeks to halt the ban until that lawsuit can be heard.
Judge Stanley R. Chesler of United States District Court in Trenton did not immediately set a hearing date on the request by the New Jersey Hospitality Industry for Fairness Coalition, the New Jersey Licensed Beverage Association, the New Jersey Restaurant Association, bowling alley owners and several bars and restaurants.
 The groups sued the state on March 7 over the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act because it bans smoking in restaurants, bars, private office buildings and other indoor places but not on the casino floors of Atlantic City's 12 gambling halls.
 The lawsuit says the smoking ban violates the equal protection clause of the United States Constitution by singling out casinos.
 The groups say their businesses would suffer irreparable harm -- potentially closing businesses and laying off workers -- while they await the outcome of the constitutional challenge.
 ''There's a lot of economic impact that would be unfairly applied to other eating and drinking establishments beyond casinos if indeed it goes into effect on April 15,'' said Deborah Dowdell, the president of the restaurant association. ''In anticipation of the jolt the industry would experience, we want to make sure nobody goes through any particular hardship from April 15 on. That's really the motivation.''
 The Smoke-Free Air Act excludes the gambling areas of the casinos, which casino executives said would lose business if gamblers could not smoke. The casinos contend that a universal ban would lead to lost business, lower revenues, a drop in the state's share of casino revenues and, ultimately, job losses.
 Supporters of the ban said the bill would not have passed the Legislature if it did not exempt casinos, and that a partial ban was better than none. Legislation to eliminate the casino loophole is pending.
 Opponents, including casino workers who are routinely exposed to secondhand smoke on the job, say the state enacted the ban because of employee health concerns but that the bill relegates workers to second-class status by putting the casinos' well-being ahead of theirs.
 Regina Carlson, executive director of the New Jersey Group Against Smoking Pollution, said that the ban was inequitable but that the Legislature had acted incrementally -- on smoking and other issues -- before. She also questioned whether the casinos would truly compete with bars for customers.
 ''It strikes me as patently ridiculous that someone's going to drive from the bar across the street from them in Teaneck to Atlantic City so they can have a smoke with their beer,'' Ms. Carlson said.
 The restaurant association was opposed to the smoking ban before the casinos were exempted from it, she said.
 ''As a health group, we think the casinos should have been protected,'' Ms. Carlson said. ''But it's quite clear the Legislature has broad discretion in what they decide to consider and not consider -- health, economics, politics, the political mood, whatever.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Owners of restaurants and bars have filed a lawsuit to block a smoking ban, but in Atlantic City cigarettes will be allowed on casino floors. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING BANS (94%); SMOKING (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BOWLING (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (87%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); BOWLING CENTERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CLOSINGS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Smoking and Tobacco; Gambling; Casinos; Bars; Restaurants; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: new jersey licensed beverage assn; new jersey hospitality industry for fairness coalition; New Jersey Restaurant Assn

PERSON: Stanley R (Judge) Chesler

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



391 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Life, and Work, After 'Retirement'

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
RETIREMENT? No thanks. 
 Since she was a teenager, Diana Marullo, 73, has worked, holding jobs including secretary to a school custodian and salesclerk at a department store. She stopped working a decade ago to take care of her husband when he became sick, she says, and after he died she left New York City to be with her disabled daughter. Now back in the city, she wants to return to work, saying, ''I still have a lot of energy left in me.''
Earnest Evans, 81, spent six decades as a janitorial and maintenance worker for a string of employers and then ran his own floor-cleaning company. Since closing it two years ago, he says, he has been employed sporadically, feels restless and wants to work regularly again. ''If you don't work,'' he says, ''your bones will get stiff.'' 
 Ms. Marullo and Mr. Evans were among 40 people attending classes on a recent morning at the Lower Manhattan headquarters of the New York City Department for the Aging, which runs a job-training center for low- and moderate-income city residents 55 and older. 
 The center, which was established in 1991 to house a computer training course, later added courses focusing on business operations and customer service. In recent years, nearly 1,000 people a year have taken a course at the center, generally attending four hours each weekday for about 10 weeks, said Maria Serrano, director of senior employment services at the Department for the Aging.
 Many in the program are in their mid-50's and early 60's and are under financial pressure -- people laid off when their companies closed, moved or shrank and who could not find new jobs, Ms. Serrano said, and who are too young to collect Social Security benefits.
 The trainees do not pay for the instruction; in fact, they get $6.75 an hour, the minimum wage, while in the program. More than 90 percent complete their training, and the department places about 85 percent of those in full-time or part-time jobs, Ms. Serrano said, citing retail, customer service and general office work.
 After nine months -- the period in which the agency tracks those whom it places -- more than 85 percent are still working for the businesses that hired them or for other employers, she said. ''These people are reliable,'' she said. ''They want to work.''
 In another program, which predated the job-training center but is now one of its offerings, several hundred people a year receive preliminary instruction at the center and are then trained at nonprofit groups and government agencies.
 Criteria for admission to the center's programs include household income limits, which, as of April 1, will be $12,250 a year for a person living alone and $16,500 for a two-person household. Further information is available at (212) 442-1353.
 The Older Americans Act of 1965, which authorizes federal funds to help pay for job training for the elderly, has spurred the creation of such programs across the country, including New York's. Many more may well be needed in coming years as the baby boom generation -- those born between 1946 and 1964 -- ages into an older-American boom, and as life spans continue to lengthen. 
 The Social Security Administration estimates that the number of Americans 65 and older will double during the first three decades of this century, to 70 million, compared with a rise of about 25 percent in the nation's overall population, to nearly 360 million. More older people will no doubt mean more like Ms. Marullo and Mr. Evans, who prefer not to join their contemporaries in retirement, and others who would prefer to but cannot afford to. The increase in the minimum age for eligibility to collect full Social Security retirement benefits, to 67 from 65, which is now being phased in, will be a contributing factor. In addition, older workers will need to brush up on old skills and learn new ones for the ever-changing electronic workplace.
 Ms. Marullo, a Queens resident, is in a course on customer service skills. The Food Emporium supermarket chain and the Riese Organization, the restaurant company, helped establish some of the courses, which are given amid counters with cash registers, food packages and dishes of plastic food for hands-on instruction.
 Mr. Evans, of the Bronx, is in the course in basic computer skills. He had never used a computer, he said, but added, ''I might open my own business again, and I'll need a computer for that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BACK TO SCHOOL -- Earnest Evans, 81, closed his floor-cleaning company two years ago, but is restless and wants to work again. He is taking a course in computer skills. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (89%); OLDER WORKERS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%) Labor; Older Workers

ORGANIZATION: Department for the Aging (NYC)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



392 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Cash and Carry Democracy

BYLINE: By Rachel Leon. 
Rachel Leon is executive director of Common Cause New York, a nonprofit group that tracks the influence of money in politics.

 BODY:
THE fact that an individual is allowed to give more money to a candidate for New York State office than to a presidential contender should tell New Yorkers that our campaign finance laws need to be fixed. 
 Many New Yorkers have a sense that money plays an all too important role in state political campaigns. Many also believe that campaigns are paid for largely by special interests and wealthy individuals who represent neither the diversity of our state nor the best interests of the public at large in their interactions with elected officials.
But sensing that things are bad and facing up to the ugly facts are not the same. Sensing warrants investigation. Seeing the facts warrants action. 
 Well, the facts are in. My group's research shows that campaigns in New York rank among the most expensive in the country. While 99 percent of New Yorkers give nothing directly to state-level political campaigns, those few who do give make contributions in amounts that are far beyond the reach of most New Yorkers. 
 The federal contribution limit for individuals giving directly to candidates is $2,100. In New York, however, an individual can contribute up to $3,400 for Assembly candidates, $8,500 for State Senate candidates and $33,900 for statewide candidates in the general election. As a result, in the 2002 gubernatorial, 2004 legislative and current 2006 election cycles, more than 55 percent of the money received by candidates for state office came via checks written for more than $2,100. Put another way, more than 55 percent of the campaign contributions made by individuals in New York State would have been illegal if given to presidential and Congressional candidates. 
 Furthermore, the cost of campaigns in New York is high and rising, making this small group of donors increasingly important to candidates. The cost of a winning gubernatorial campaign has almost quadrupled since 1986, when the winning candidate spent more than $11 million, and has increased more than eightfold since 1990, to $44 million in 2002. Even when adjusted for inflation, the cost of a winning campaign has more than doubled since 1986, and has increased sixfold since 1990. 
 When candidates feel pressure to raise large sums of money to be competitive, wealthy individuals and other corporate and special interest groups grow in influence and importance while the rest of us are pushed ever more into the sidelines of our democracy. 
 Dramatically lowering the cap on individual contributions to a level more comparable with the federal limit would help control this influence. But if New Yorkers are to have confidence in the system that elects their public servants, attention must also be paid to how campaign funds are spent. The single largest category of expenses for state legislative candidates in the 2004 election cycle was not television ads or fundraising but ''other.'' Winning candidates also tend to spend a significant portion of their money outside the height of the election season. These two troubling facts highlight the pervasive practice of candidates using campaign funds for purposes that stretch the definition of ''campaign expense'' to its breaking point. 
 When candidates can use campaign funds for everything from country club memberships to luxury car leases, special interests are able to make an end-run around our gift restrictions by effectively supporting candidates' lifestyles. If the public is to invest in a strong system of campaign finance, they need to know that campaign money will be appropriately spent.
 So in addition to a cap on individual contributions, lawmakers should embrace a ban on the use of campaign funds for personal use. Lawmakers should also push for improved disclosure and enforcement and public financing of elections. 
 Connecticut has recently proved that state legislatures can enact comprehensive campaign finance reform. And New York City has a program of partial public financing of elections that is considered a national model. It's time for New York State to follow their lead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (94%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); ETHICS (72%) Finances; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (59%) Common Cause (Orgn)

PERSON: Rachel Leon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



393 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Seton Hall Reaches Out To Newark

BYLINE: By Terry Golway. 
TerryGolway@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE 

 BODY:
DRIVERS leaving through the main gate at Seton Hall University can turn left onto South Orange Avenue and head west, toward the town that gives the avenue its name -- a place of gas lamps, designer coffee and microbrewed beer.
 Or, drivers can turn right, to the east, and in about 45 seconds find themselves in the Vailsburg section of Newark, where homes have bars on windows and a sign near a vacant lot warns drug dealers that security cameras are watching. 
Most people turn left. But in recent years, more than 700 Seton Hall students and about 40 faculty and staff members have turned right. Rather than rush past the faded storefronts, they stop for a while. They have tutored Vailsburg's young, taught adults how to use computers, worked with activists on issues like housing and development -- and brought their expertise back to the classroom.
 While community outreach programs are a standard feature of higher education these days, Seton Hall is in the forefront of a movement to incorporate civic engagement with theory and pedagogy. The buzz phrase is ''service learning.''
 ''It's different from traditional volunteer work,'' said Dr. Roseanne Mirabella, a political science professor at the university. ''With service learning, students do service in the field, but their experience also is included as part of their course work.''
 In Vailsburg, ''in the field'' often means a wounded community. At one time, the area seemed like an extension of Seton Hall, an ethnic Catholic neighborhood that sent the children of firefighters, brewery workers and police officers to the university next door.
 Vailsburg, separated from the rest of Newark by the Garden State Parkway, was for many Irish, Italians and Poles what Weequahic was for Newark's Jews -- an old-fashioned urban enclave. All of that changed after the riots in 1967.
 Today, the neighborhood of 34,000 people is about 81 percent African-American; 21 percent of the families live below the poverty level, and 25 percent of its residents from the ages of 18 to 24 did not finish high school.
 Dr. Mirabella grew up in Vailsburg, attended Seton Hall and now is a force behind the newly named Center for Community Research and Engagement, which runs programs designed to redefine the idea of service and outreach in higher education. Through its community renaissance project, it has developed a partnership with Unified Vailsburg Services Organization, one of the neighborhood's best-known development groups.
 That effort received a major boost recently when the Lily Endowment, an Indiana-based philanthropy, gave the university a $2 million grant to finance service projects. The money led to creation of the Center for Vocation and Servant Leadership, which oversees programs that connects students and faculty with the poor and underserved in Vailsburg and other struggling communities in Essex County.
 Michael Farley, executive director of Unified Vailsburg, said that because of the university's commitment, results have begun to show. 
 ''We have a group of students implementing an SAT preparation class, and another group designing plans on housing and economic development issues,'' Mr. Farley said, adding that ''in these cases, we're seeing actual results.''
 One of Dr. Mirabella's students, Ashley Grosso, a senior from Caughdenoy, N.Y., is developing a plan for an AIDS museum in Vailsburg.
 Not that all of the learning is going on in Vailsburg. Prof. Mike Taylor, director of the university's new environmental studies program, has 22 students working in South Orange on a project to beautify a branch of the Rahway River. 
 ''They're seeing the permitting process first-hand -- seeing what it takes to make an environmental project happen,'' Professor Taylor said.
 That's the whole idea.
 ''The students are getting the theory in class, but they're also seeing the practical implications of what they're reading,'' Dr. Mirabella said. ''That is what service learning is all about.'' 
 That, and getting people to turn right at the university gate.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SERVICE LEARNING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BEER & ALE (77%); RIOTS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); FAMILY (73%); BREWERIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); SCIENCE FUNDING (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); TRENDS (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); POVERTY RATES (61%) Social Conditions and Trends; Volunteers

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%) Seton Hall University

PERSON: Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



394 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3058 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Facades, Furrowed Brows 

BYLINE: By JEFF BYLES. 
Jeff Byles is the author of ''Rubble: Unearthing the History of Demolition.''

 BODY:
ON May 22, 1936, the photographer Berenice Abbott ambled along the Brooklyn waterfront, thrilling to river-wrapped vistas and old warehouses that glowered with imposing grandeur. Crossing the narrow streets on one of her celebrated sorties to shoot the surging metropolis for the federal Works Progress Administration, she turned her lens upon a sleek new structure rising at 11 Water Street, beneath the Brooklyn Bridge.
 Abutting the bridge's Brooklyn tower, the two-story Art Moderne warehouse was just a steel skeleton when Abbott photographed it. It would become the New York City Department of Purchase Storehouse, known as the Purchase Building, a low-slung work of brick and concrete ribbons. In 1977, when the building was declared part of the Fulton Ferry Historic District, preservation officials even noted its quirky boiler house, admiring its ''boldly designed, tiered and faceted chimney-stack.''
Yet at a public hearing on Feb. 21, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission voted 7 to 2 in favor of demolishing the Purchase Building to make way for Brooklyn Bridge Park. 
 Like a growing number of decisions involving landmark designations, it came in the wake of a stormy dispute. At the hearing, Adrian Benepe, the city's parks commissioner, deemed the Purchase Building ''a substantial barrier'' to the Brooklyn park, a 1.3-mile-long waterfront area that planners have already hailed as the city's third great open space, in league with Central Park and Prospect Park. Lining up on the other side, preservationists deplored the decision, calling it ''short-sighted,'' ''a failure of imagination'' and ''anti-preservation.''
 But beyond the particulars of the Purchase decision, some preservationists found evidence of what they saw as a more worrisome pattern. The commission's action, they contend, was the latest sign of a sea change in landmark designation in the city, the culmination of decades-long trends that have put the landmarks commission in the middle of a land-use maelstrom.
 ''This vote was the low point in the history of the landmarks commission,'' said Andrew S. Dolkart, a professor of historic preservation at Columbia University, adding: ''It's disgraceful. I think the commissioners fell down on their duty, which is to preserve landmarks.''
 Robert B. Tierney, the chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, defended the vote to forward a favorable advisory report to park planners as ''a fair outcome based on a fair and open process.'' Extensive study of the Fulton Ferry district, he said, convinced him and other commissioners that razing the Purchase Building was the right move, if a wrenching one. ''I struggled with it,'' he said. ''I am passionately concerned about all of the 23,000 buildings that we have under our jurisdiction. It is not with pleasure that I take a decision like this.''
 Pitting the ineffable virtues of Moderne styling against the incalculable glory of a world-class waterfront is no one's idea of fun. But, as the statements by Professor Dolkart and Mr. Tierney suggest, the stakes may go far beyond the Purchase Building. Many on both sides of the preservationist fence are wondering whether, given such factors as a bubbling real estate market, a rising city population and a new role for the City Council, the landmarks commission, rightly or wrongly, is entering a new chapter in its 41-year history. 

Small Board, Vast Responsibility
 The 11-member Landmarks Preservation Commission was born in 1965 amid the destruction of the old Pennsylvania Station, a traumatic alarm to the preservation community. Since its first designations later that year, this small agency has shaped the built fabric of the city perhaps more profoundly than any other public entity. 
 Led today by Mr. Tierney, who served as counsel to Mayor Edward I. Koch and was appointed chairman by Mayor Bloomberg in 2003, the commission oversees a vast portfolio of landmarks stretching from the castlelike Fonthill country house in the North Bronx, built in 1852 for the actor Edwin Forrest, to the 1670's Conference House, where Benjamin Franklin and John Adams strode on the southern tip of Staten Island. Visitors to the commission's public hearings, held regularly at the agency's Municipal Building conference room, will hear remarkably refined discourse about board-and-batten siding in Clinton Hill, the nuances of bracket signs in TriBeCa, or the precise hue of bricks to clad a proposed apartment tower on the Upper West Side.
 Such civilized debate, however, belies an increasingly brass-knuckles reality.
 New York's still-hot real estate market has spawned more development than at any time in recent memory. The Bloomberg administration has embarked upon a string of rezonings to help accommodate a booming city population. Low-rise neighborhoods outside Manhattan, absorbing the brunt of new development, are desperately campaigning for historic protection. City Council members, meanwhile, are seeking a louder voice in preservation affairs. And for dramatic effect, there was the head-splitting saga over the preservation of 2 Columbus Circle, Edward Durell Stone's ''lollipop'' building.
 ''The importance of landmarking has been recognized by more groups and in more parts of the city than ever before,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, professor of urban planning and policy at the New York University Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. ''Landmarks is no longer a small peripheral entity, but is now a pivotal part of decision-making in all of the communities in New York.''
 At the same time, growing stresses upon the agency have frayed nerves within preservation circles. A 2004 report by the Women's City Club of New York, endorsed by more than 60 preservation groups, called for reforms to increase the commission's openness and communications with the public. That theme was amplified at City Council hearings last year, when Councilman Bill Perkins effectively put the commission on notice: ''There is a constituency out there that's concerned about these issues that may be broader, more diverse, more sophisticated, more committed, than any other constituency that is identified with any other city service or city function.''
 The most frequent lament from that die-hard constituency is the contention that the 11 commissioners' staff is far too small, at 57 people. Despite a growing workload, the staff is down from 80 in 1991, though it has recently been on the rebound. Moreover, the loss of the survey department, which happened under the Dinkins administration, has meant that while once commission staff members roamed the streets checking out potential landmarks, they now rely on private preservation groups to bring prospective designations to their attention. 
 That, say preservation advocates, has contributed to an atmosphere of crisis. As Simeon Bankoff, the executive director of the Historic Districts Council, put it: ''Very few people wake up in the morning and say: 'I love my block. I want my block to stay as it is forever. And I want it to be a landmark.' '' Instead, residents wait until the church goes up for sale or wreckers pop up at the house next door. ''You have a situation where almost everything that comes across the transom at the commission is by its nature very, very urgent.'' 
 Others contend that the commission has been on a starvation diet over three mayoral administrations. Its current $3.6 million budget, they say, is a pittance compared with other departmental coffers.
 In a related concern, preservation advocates cite a huge slowdown in the number of landmark designations that stretches back to at least the Koch administration.
 Today the commission aims to designate 16 individual landmarks and historic districts per year. In the 2005 fiscal year, that came to a total of 46 buildings, a trifle compared with the 2,374 designated in 1981. To be fair, designations have historically been cyclical -- it takes years of painstaking work to designate a district with hundreds of buildings. And the staff devotes heroic efforts to an annual load of more than 9,000 applications to alter landmark structures. As the real estate market has grown flush with low-interest loans and as property owners rush to renovate, those applications have mounted fast and furiously.
 Acknowledging that the commission's resources are not what they were, Mr. Tierney cites trends that he calls encouraging. The staff has grown almost 20 percent over the past four years. ''Is it enough?'' Mr. Tierney asked. ''Maybe not yet. But it's a big, big step forward.''

A Rocky Past
 As seen through the eyes of other preservationists, the picture looks almost rosy, at least compared with yesteryear.
 ''These storms going on today are nothing compared to the storms that went on routinely,'' said Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society and chairman of the commission from 1978 to 1983. Mr. Barwick battled opposition to designating landmarks in Queens and Staten Island, and ''an absolute prohibition on designations in Lower Manhattan, a place most people would consider the architectural treasure house of the nation.'' Even the Upper East Side Historic District, today accepted as one of the city's premier landmark districts, resulted from a brutal fight against real estate interests. 
 Indeed, commission hearings were rarely sedate affairs. The case for Lever House, for instance, may look simple after the fact. ''At the time it was up for designation it was a terrible fight,'' Mr. Barwick said. ''And it is certainly not easy for a commission operating today, because there's still an argument over whether some of these buildings are worthwhile.'' That argument played out in pitched fashion over 2 Columbus Circle, which became a cause celebre after the commission declined even to hold a public hearing about its worthiness as a landmark.
 Regardless of such dust-ups, others call the current administration as preservation-minded as any, given Mayor Bloomberg's urbanist credentials. ''I don't think anyone can say he's not a great supporter of preservation,'' said Sherida E. Paulsen, who preceded Mr. Tierney as chairwoman of the commission. ''He's always shown a great interest in making sure the environment is of very high quality.'' 
 And more market-oriented urban observers have long argued that regulation can go overboard. ''Cities are living organisms and as living organisms they have to change,'' said Peter Salins, provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs of the State University of New York and an expert on housing and planning policy. ''There has to be the flexibility for the community to live and to breathe.''

Council Flexes Its Muscles
 That brings us to another factor in preservation calculus: resistance to the permanent protection of modern architecture like the Purchase Building, especially among members of the City Council who are empowered to approve, modify or deny landmark designations.
 Late last year, the Council caused a stir when it revoked the designation for the Cass Gilbert-designed Austin, Nichols & Company building on the Brooklyn waterfront, a 1915 structure denounced as ''a piece of trash'' by Simcha Felder, then chairman of the Council's landmarks committee. Although a Council overturn of a landmarks ruling is a relative rarity, that vote represented the second time in two months that the Council had rejected a decision by the commission, coming just after the 1968 Jamaica Savings Bank was stripped of its designation. One possible explanation: Neither structure fit the mode of lavish ornament and classical detailing that to the untrained eye typically says ''landmark.''
 But aesthetics were only part of the story. For one thing, the Austin, Nichols owners bitterly opposed the designation, hoping to add a rooftop addition for condominiums. For another, the building came up for designation at a moment when the Council was powerfully flexing its muscles vis-a-vis decisions on landmarks.
 The trend dates to about 15 years ago, when the Council became a player in the designation process after changes to the City Charter. After 2001, when term limits kicked in, a more activist group of Council members began responding more pointedly to the landmarks commission, both asking for designations and rejecting them.
 In some eyes, that's not a bad thing. 
 ''The commission is a group of experts with architectural expertise and historical expertise, whereas the Council is reasoning with different criteria,'' among them economic development imperatives, zoning considerations, and the views of their constituents, said Ms. Paulsen, the former commission chairwoman. ''I think the two things do have to be part of a dialogue.'' (By law, the 11 commissioners, all of them appointed by the mayor for three-year terms, must include at least three architects, one historian, one city planner or landscape architect, and one real estate agent. The commission must also include one resident of each borough.)
 Complicating matters further is that New York has added 845,000 residents since 1990, spurring demand for housing. Jumbo-sized new construction has catalyzed preservationists in neighborhoods that suddenly seem at risk. The recently designated Fieldston Historic District, for example, a 257-building swath of the North Bronx, has been hailed as a rare example of a romantic suburban community -- and one that was in danger as owners tore down stately Tudors and Colonials to build enormous new homes ill-matched to their surroundings. 
 Similarly vulnerable neighborhoods like Dumbo in Brooklyn, along with Flushing, Richmond Hill and Kew Gardens in Queens, are now desperately lobbying the commission for their own historic districts. Even parts of Staten Island have lately converted to the preservation gospel, spurred on by the news that during the 1990's the borough was the state's fastest-growing county. 
 To that end, Mr. Tierney notes that the commission recently completed a street-by-street ''windshield survey'' of Staten Island, driving by every building and documenting what is expected to be a trove of landmark-worthy structures. And over the past three years, 406 buildings in the boroughs beyond Manhattan have been designated, including the Douglaston Hill Historic District in Queens. The commission is working on a stretch of more than 500 buildings in the Crown Heights North area of Brooklyn, which could be the largest district designated in more than a decade.
 With a total of 84 historic districts under the agency's belt, Mr. Tierney remains proud of the commission's work. 
 ''I think we've been aggressive, and I think the results show it,'' he said. ''At a time like this, when preservation needs to be at the table, we're at the table in a major, major way.''

A Misplaced Gem
 If you follow Berenice Abbott's footsteps today, you might have a hard time finding anything to cherish about the Purchase Building. The whole property, which has recently housed a temporary city command center, strikes a barricaded note. Drab aluminum siding clads part of the facade. Hemmed in by the garden for the adjacent River Cafe, the structure looks awkwardly sited.
 Was it really worth fighting for? Absolutely, said Nicholas Evans-Cato, vice president of the Vinegar Hill Neighborhood Association. 
 ''Even within such a small historic district as Fulton Ferry,'' he said, ''the boundaries that were drawn at that time recognize that the Purchase Building is just as much a part of the history of the working waterfront as the Empire Stores or the Brooklyn Bridge itself.'' And for a warehouse once crammed full of office furniture, it has a remarkable expanse of gasp-worthy windows. 
 ''Why would all those file cabinets need great views of the river?'' Mr. Evans-Cato wondered. ''And if you put a restaurant in there, future park visitors would have had that great view, too.''
 Yet even Moderne-minded architects admit that the planners have a point.
 ''I love the Purchase Building, and I think it's an underappreciated gem,'' said Fredric M. Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects. Yet, he added: ''The Purchase Building as a warehouse in a park just did not make sense. The context was everything. And the context of this building is that it blocks the view of a world monument, the Brooklyn Bridge.''
 The verdict: Nice building. Wrong place. 

Preservation Twists and Turns

1963
The demolition of Penn Station begins, galvanizing the historic preservation movement and highlighting an already growing demand for landmark protection.

1965
Mayor Robert Wagner signs the New York City Landmarks Law on April 19, establishing the Landmarks Preservation Commission. The first landmark is the Pieter Claesen Wyckoff House in Brooklyn, built about 1652. Brooklyn Heights becomes the city's first historic district.

1978
The United States Supreme Court upholds the city's landmarks law after the commission denies a developer permission to build a 55-story tower above Grand Central Terminal. Historic structures ''enhance the quality of life for all,'' Justice William Brennan writes in his ruling. ''Not only do these buildings and their workmanship represent the lessons of the past and embody precious features of our heritage, they serve as examples of quality for today.''

1987
Amid a highly public dispute over a plan to build a restaurant in Bryant Park, a designated landmark, the Koch administration refuses to reappoint Anthony Tung, a landmarks commissioner who opposed the plan.

1996
The landmarks commission first declines to hold a public hearing on 2 Columbus Circle, the ''lollipop'' building by Edward Durell Stone. Despite lawsuits and vigorous protests that get under way in 2002, the commission refuses to revisit this decision. In October 2005, the building is sold to the Museum of Arts and Design, and work begins to revamp the facade and interiors.

2005
Incensing preservationists and landmarks commissioners alike, the City Council overturns two landmark designations: the Austin, Nichols & Company Warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and the Jamaica Savings Bank, above, on Queens Boulevard. Mayor Bloomberg vetoes the Austin, Nichols decision, but the council overrides the veto, making it the second spurned landmark in two months. JEFF BYLES


GRAPHIC: Photos: YESTERDAY, TODAY -- The Purchase Building, a little Art Moderne structure under the Brooklyn Bridge whose razing was recently approved, as it appeared in a 1930's photograph, below, and, left, as it appears today. (Photos by Angel Franco/The New York Times
below right, Berenice Abbott/New York Public Library)(pg. 1)
IMPETUS -- Pennsylvania Station, as captured by Berenice Abbott in the mid-1930's. From its ashes sprung the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission. (Photo by Berenice Abbott/New York Public Library)
(Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
(Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
(Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); HISTORY (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Historic Buildings and Sites; purchase building (nyc)

ORGANIZATION: Landmarks Preservation Commission

PERSON: Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Jeff Byles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



395 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: That Sound You Hear? The Market Coming Down to Earth

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ford Fessenden, as well as by Kathleen McGrory in Westchester, Faiza Akhtar and Sophia Chang on Long Island, John Koblin and Nate Schweber in New Jersey and Alejandro Lazo and Avi Salzman in Connecticut.

 BODY:
AS clusters of open-house balloons bob across the suburbs of the metropolitan area, from the New Englandy enclaves of Fairfield County, Conn., to the salt-sprayed boroughs of the Jersey Shore, the question remains: whither the housing market?
 Everyone, it seems, has an answer, and those answers can be strangely contradictory and accurate at the same time. If inventory is your gauge, the market is slackening. If prices are your prism, it's still going strong.
But in interviews with more than two dozen real estate agents, buyers, sellers and economists, the consensus is that the housing market in the region remains remarkably buoyant but is coming down to earth. Prices are still in the clouds, but inventory is expanding, sales volume declining and bidding wars, once commonplace, increasingly rare.
 In short, the boom is over. Yet there is no bust in sight. ''It's turning,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization. ''It's neither a buyer's nor a seller's market.'' 
 Buyers say they no longer feel pressured to make an offer the moment they step over the doorsill. (There are even isolated reports of sellers getting lowball offers.) Brokers, meanwhile, are lecturing sellers to be more realistic about prices, and sellers are working harder to spruce up their homes.
 ''A few years ago, sellers were not making their beds and leaving dishes in the sink, and buyers were still coming and buying,'' said Cindy DeRose, a sales agent for Hudson Shores Realtors in Irvington. ''It is still a healthy market. But it has cooled down enough that sellers just have to do a little more work, frankly.''
 Of course, the real estate market in the New York City suburbs has long had its ups and downs. But over time, houses there have proved to be extraordinary investments because people want to be close to the city while enjoying the relative safety and good public schools the suburbs offer.
 Though the pattern of contradiction in the current market seems fairly consistent from state to state, there are differences from one community to the next, with some towns appearing almost impervious to any downturn, at least for now. 
 Frank Anthony, a sales associate for Coldwell Banker in Mendham, N.J., called the current market ''town sensitive.'' He compared a Cape Cod in East Hanover, N.J., for $519,900 that has sat on the market for 80 days with a colonial in Millburn, N.J., that was listed for $775,000 and sold in two days. 
 Mr. Anthony believes the market is still hot as long as three conditions are met: ''nice house, nice location and nice price.'' 
 For all the talk of a bubble, prices do not seem ready to collapse or even edge south, with the exception of houses whose price tags were plainly inflated. Brokers say the $1 million mark seems to be a dividing line: houses priced for less sell quickly, while houses listed for more are sitting longer and, in some cases, going for less than their list prices.
 The most recent statewide real estate data for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut show that housing prices continued to appreciate late last year, but at a less breathless clip than the year before. 
 According to Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist and assistant vice president for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the growth rate in the price of an average house peaked at the same moment in all three states, the third quarter of 2004. New York State saw a 17 percent increase in sales prices for single-family houses, over the same quarter in 2003; Connecticut, 15 percent, and New Jersey, 18.5 percent.
 By comparison, in the last quarter of 2005, housing prices in New York rose 12.6 percent over the year before, 11.9 percent in Connecticut and 14.6 percent in New Jersey. Westchester County's fourth quarter witnessed a more modest increase of 6 percent. And some brokers believe that housing prices may be leveling off. 
 ''It's like going from 60 miles per hour to 30 miles per hour,'' Ms. Rosen said of the rise in prices. ''We're just decelerating. It looks like the market is moving away from its peak.''
 Armed with reports of an easing market and steeped in Internet research, some buyers are heading to open houses with raised hopes, expecting to find a house or a condominium they can not only afford but also actually want to inhabit. Some are equating a softening market with falling prices; they are often disappointed.
 ''There doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to this market,'' said Claudia DeNatale, who recently toured a lackluster three-bedroom condominium in Huntington Station, N.Y., listed for $425,000. ''There's been so much talk about the market changing, but I don't see anything dramatic. When you talk about a drop, it should be significant.''
 What many buyers do report is greater choice. Indeed, inventory -- tight as a noose since 2000 -- is up across the region, sometimes markedly.
 On Long Island, the number of unsold houses in January stood at 23,470, a 67 percent jump from the year before. Inventory in Connecticut also rose. In Fairfield County, the number of houses for sale at the end of last year was 35 percent higher than in late 2004. Inventories in some communities (Norwalk, Easton, New Canaan and Darien) were up more than 50 percent.
 New Jersey's inventory swelled, too, up 46 percent in January over the previous year. Westchester had the least growth in the number of houses on the market, 13 percent more at the end of 2005. If you add in co-ops and condominiums, the rise in inventory was 21 percent.
 The chief executive of Westchester County's real estate board, P. Gilbert Mercurio, said the total number of residential properties now on the market was still less than half that of the mid-1990's. ''The real estate boom ate into the inventory in Westchester County, and it is only now starting to rebuild,'' he said.
 Whatever the exact inventory increases, the effect is a more relaxed home-buying environment. Kelly Sabloff has sampled both markets. In 2001, she and her husband, Matthew, relocating from Montreal, bought an expanded Cape for $515,000 in Stamford, Conn. In February, after selling it for $680,000, they moved a short distance to a center hall colonial, for which they paid $747,000. 
 ''The big difference I noticed was the choice,'' Mrs. Sabloff said. ''Granted I was in a different price range four and a half years later. But there was a sheer volume of choice. You didn't have the pressure of, 'If you don't put an offer down, you're going to lose it.' ''
 Bill Hanley, president-elect of the New Jersey Association of Realtors and manager of Weichert Realtors in Metuchen, N.J., agreed. ''Before we had one home for 10 buyers,'' he said. ''Now the one buyer can look at 10 homes.''
 For sellers, the new market dynamic can lead to frustration. Gary Harman watched in recent years as his neighbors sold Cape Cod-style homes for more than a half-million dollars. At the end of December, he put his house, in East Hanover, N.J., on the market for $539,000. None of the more than 25 people who came to see it made an offer. He has since dropped the price twice, to $519,900. He believes his house stands out because of the abundant custom wood molding he installed himself. ''The discouraging part is that when the people go through the house, they don'teven take that into consideration,'' he said. ''You could have holes in the house and it wouldn't matter.'' 
 Other sellers are newly self-conscious about the style of their house. Contemporaries, ranches and split-levels tend to sell more slowly than traditional houses, but that is even more true in a softening market, brokers say. 
 Lori and Greg Margolis are about to put their 1960's ranch in Harrison on the market for $2.2 million. It is a sizable property: 4,000 square feet on one and a half acres. They have transformed the house, which Mrs. Margolis termed a ''complete 1980's abomination,'' by renovating the bathrooms and painting the rooms stark colors. Still, she is approaching the listing with trepidation. ''The market's not vibrant now,'' she said. ''It's a nice house, but it's a certain look. The buyers in Westchester are not eclectic. It's very conservative. This house in L.A. would be the hippest, coolest house. People here like English country.''
 Buyers, for their part, are feeling the pressures of rising interest rates and limited investment potential. The first would seem to propel buyers toward a purchase, so that they can lock in what is still a desirable rate. The second factor -- the possibility that the market may be at its peak -- may suggest caution.
 Brokers say that buyers are responding by looking for attributes that tend to prop up a home's value over time, like good schools and attractive commuting. More buyers are taking property taxes into account, too.
 Ruth Chizzini, vice president and director of relocation in Westchester for Sotheby's International Realty, said that escalating property taxes in the county were deterring some. ''When you come to New York, you can live in three states, and buyers are going with value,'' she said. ''We are very impacted by taxes. I just lost a couple of $3 million customers to Connecticut.''
 Of course, some towns in the region enjoy such a buzz that market shifts are not acutely felt. There is Rye on Long Island Sound, with top-rated schools and many old and charming houses (quite a few of them mansions -- without the ''Mc'').
 Earlier this month, a house in the prestigious Milton Point section that was listed for $1.7 million went to a sealed bid, a more civilized take on the bidding war, when the seller's broker asks all potential buyers for their best offers and terms.
 Ms. Chizzini says tear-downs are still common in Rye, another sign of a superheated market: in March a builder closed on a $1.6 million house on less than a half-acre, with plans to knock it down and build anew. And two young couples were recently competing for one of Ms. Chizzini's Rye listings -- a four-bedroom split-level asking $875,000 that, in her words, ''needs everything, everything.''
 But for every situation like that, there is one like the town house listed in late January by Carol Ann Decker, a sales associate in the office of Country Living Associates in Westport, Conn. Mrs. Decker put the town house, in Fairfield, Conn., on the market for $535,000. ''We sold it instantly,'' she said. But the buyer got ''cold feet,'' she said, and failed to move forward with an inspection.
 Then three other buyers expressed interest. ''I thought, 'Oh, wow, this is going to be great,' '' Mrs. Decker recalled. ''But it's been a number of weeks and they're all just sitting and waiting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Matthew and Kelly Sabloff, above, with Malkam, Oliver and Ava, in their new home in Stamford, Conn. This time, unlike 2001 when they bought a house, ''there was a sheer volume of choice,'' Mrs. Sabloff says. Brandi and Richard Mascali, below, as they toured a house on Park Avenue in Rye. At left is the listing agent, Loretta Rapisardi. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
Gary Harman, left, dropped the price for his East Hanover, N.J., home to $519,900 from $539,000. Claudia DeNatale, at a Huntington, N.Y., open house, says, ''There's been so much talk about the market changing, but I don't see anything dramatic.'' (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



396 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: A Suburban Switch: The Condo's the Thing

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
IN mid-November, Jin Kim and May Yee Yeoung, single professional women who have been roommates for two years, pooled their money and bought their first home, a luxurious two-bedroom condo just off Interstate 95 in Fairfield, Conn., 60 miles north of the rental apartment in TriBeCa where they used to live.
 Two months later, Walter and Lois F. Killough, who have been married 26 years and have two grown children, bought a two-bedroom condo in West New York, N.J., just across the Hudson River from Midtown Manhattan. They are slowly moving out of their home in suburban Mahwah, N.J., so that Mr. Killough can have a shorter commute to work in New York City and Mrs. Killough can be closer to the theaters she loves to attend.
''This feels almost like a vacation home,'' Mrs. Killough, a seventh-grade English teacher, said of her new home at the Hudson Club in Port Imperial, a 200-acre waterfront development that spans five New Jersey cities and towns. 
 ''There's a pool that's right on the edge of the river,'' said Mr. Killough, chief operating officer of Delia's, a retailer of clothing for teenagers. ''There's a whole health club. I can be back home from work in 15 minutes.''
 Although Fairfield and the Hudson waterfront of New Jersey present two distinctly different streetscapes, both sets of homeowners are part of a trend that has the potential to draw a new wave of suburban pioneers to some cities and other densely populated communities. 
 For decades, ornate homes with lush yards and multicar garages have been staples of suburban life and the objects of desire of countless families who yearned for better schools, safer streets and greener environs far from the city. But as the scarcity of vacant land drove prices to stratospheric highs and many outlying communities began to impose restrictions to curb sprawl, builders trained their eyes on urban neighborhoods. 
 There they can still buy old or abandoned property at market value, tear it down and replace it with condos, which can be as fancy as a McMansion and as spacious as a single-family home. Though the properties at the high end are not cheap, they typically cost less than a house of comparable luxury and are easier to maintain.
 ''People that used to be able to afford a 1,200- or 1,500-square-foot home in the suburbs are still moving to the suburbs, but buying a 1,200- or 1,500-square-foot condo instead,'' said Tim Cashel, a division manager at Baker Residential, a developer in Pleasantville that is building two condominium communities in Bayonne, N.J., a long-neglected city on the Hudson River waterfront.
 ''Condos have become the new starter home for a lot of these folks,'' Mr. Cashel said. ''But because some of these condos are so posh and so close to the city, they have also become a retirement home for many other people who were already living in the suburbs, but were looking to trade their mansions for a smaller place.''
 Developers, spotting an opportunity, have been investing in condo construction at a feverish pace. According to the Crittenden Builders Report, a trade publication, the number of new multifamily condo and town house projects increased by about 50 percent nationwide between 2004 and last year. 
 Much of the new construction has sprouted in urban communities that developers bypassed when they blazed new frontiers deep in the suburbs. Local officials enticed them with tactics like tax incentives, selling public property for a fraction of the price and easing the approval of construction permits. In return, the developers promised to fatten municipal coffers with property tax revenues. 
 ''These days, urban areas are more friendly than the smaller suburban communities because their leaders -- the mayors, the city councilors, the city managers -- they want to see those areas revitalized, they want to see their cities active 24 hours, and the best way to do that is to encourage new construction,'' said Jeffrey Dunne, a vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis in Stamford, Conn., a commercial real estate company that sells buildings for condominium conversion throughout the New York metropolitan area. 
 Suburban cities ''are following the smart growth principles,'' said Richard V. Guarino, dean of the Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University on Long Island. ''They're creating density where infrastructure already exists, and they're creating this density with mixed-use development in downtown areas, building offices as well as housing so that you can attract young people to live and work there. 
 ''That's critical to the future of these areas because if they're not able to attract young people, they won't be able to sustain their business and economic gains,'' Mr. Guarino said. 
 In the last five years, new condo and rental apartment towers have fueled a renaissance in the working-class enclaves of Union City, N.J., and Weehawken, N.J., which have at least 30 condo projects recently completed, under construction or in the planning stages; and in once-depressed downtown areas of White Plains and New Rochelle, where three condo towers carry Donald Trump's name.
 In Connecticut, condos have brought residents to Stamford's downtown and to an old industrial swath of Fairfield, where a large office and retail complex, Metro Center, will rise along I-95 and across the street from Stone Ridge, the luxury condominium community where Ms. Kim and Ms. Yeoung live.
 Like many of the new condos on the market, theirs is a high-end unit, with stainless-steel appliances and granite counters, 10-foot ceilings and hardwood floors. Ownership comes with free health club membership. Prices of such new luxury condos are not cheap, typically starting around $450,000 for a one-bedroom, and bigger units can cost as much as $1.5 million. Developers are trying to convince whoever will listen that it is not just a home they are selling, but a style of living.
 ''The bottom line is that these people want an easier way to live,'' said Ramin Rezai, project manager at Sterling Plaza Condominium in Great Neck, N.Y., where there is hardly any room left for new development. ''They don't want to shovel the driveways. They don't want to deal with the annoyances of a broken boiler.
 ''What they want is comfort and convenience, but they don't want to pay New York City prices for that.''
 That is exactly what lured Ms. Kim and Ms. Yeoung to Fairfield, after a year of renting in Manhattan. The women work long hours at a hedge fund in Greenwich, Conn., and said they did not want to worry about who was going to drop off their suits at the dry cleaners. 
 ''We have a concierge who can do that,'' Ms. Yeoung said. ''And we don't even have to cook breakfast on the weekends because they serve it at the health club.''
 She added: ''We can live here for two, three years, and we can build a lot of equity. Buying this condo was a great investment. And our home, it looks beautiful.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jin Kim, left, and May Yee Yeoung bought a condo in Fairfield, Conn., after renting in Manhattan. At right, Ramin Rezai at Sterling Plaza Condominium in Great Neck, N.Y., where he is project manager. At left, a Trump tower, in foreground, in White Plains. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITIES (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%) Housing; Suburbs; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



397 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; CROSS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: A New Hotel, Looming Large

BYLINE: By Debra West

 BODY:
NORTH SALEM, home to horse farms, apple orchards and some of the most stunning vistas in northern Westchester, may soon also be home to a Marriott hotel. 
 The North Salem Town Board is considering a proposal by Edward W. Kelly, the developer who is married to Congresswoman Sue Kelly, for a 62-room Marriott on Route 22, just south of the Hamlet of Croton Falls. Mr. Kelly expects to break ground in the spring of 2007; to hear him tell it, the plan for the hotel has been decades in the making.
In 1969, Interstate 684 cut through North Salem and split the Outhouse farm in two (you can still pick apples in the fall at what remains of Outhouse Orchards just east of I-684 in North Salem). At that time, Mr. Kelly said, he bought 12 1/2 acres of the farmland on the west side of the highway. Town officials urged him to use the property to build a new town center for the Hamlet of Croton Falls. 
 ''I had the backing of the government,'' he said, ''but I couldn't find any tenants.'' Noting how drastically times have changed, he added, ''There was no one in the early 70's who thought that Croton Falls or North Salem was a viable economic activity.'' 
 In the 1980's Mr. Kelly planned to build a Crowne Plaza hotel on the property, but at the time, he said, North Salem was redoing its master plan. One building moratorium led to another, and zoning changes led to lawsuits. Crowne Plaza backed out before the courts affirmed in 1987 that property owners like Mr. Kelly, who had bought land for commercial development before the zoning was changed, still had the right to build commercial properties. 
 By 2000 he had interested Marriott in his property. (Although the land is perhaps a mile south of Exit 8 on I-684, he said, the hotel won't be visible from the highway.) But by then, the New York City Department of Environmental Protection had asserted its rights as overseer of development in the watershed.
 ''It took four and a half years to get the city's approval,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''They said there can be no food facility, no laundry, nothing but vending machines. Just because I border a reservoir and have a tiny brook, which is not much of a brook really but more just runoff from 684. It just goes to show you how dramatically land-use rules have changed.''

A Titan Gets Tax Breaks
 Reckson Associates Realty Corporation is to receive $4.9 million in tax breaks from the Westchester County Industrial Development Agency to build a 280,000-square-foot office building in Rye Brook. Reckson's intention is to encourage businesses to settle in Westchester rather than across the border in Greenwich, Conn. 
 The building, with atriums and granite-and-wood detailing, will constitute the third and final phase of the Reckson Executive Park, which already houses tenants like MCI International and several financial services companies. 
 ''There has not been a spec multi-tenant office building since easily the mid-80's,'' said Salvatore Campofranco, executive vice president and chief operating officer of the nearly $5 billion company. Since 1996, five million square feet of office space have flooded the real estate market in the county as I.B.M., Bank of New York, Texaco and Kraft each downsized and put some of their own properties up for grabs, Mr. Campofranco said. But Reckson is positioning itself for the office-market comeback.
 ''This building comes online sometime in 2008,'' Mr. Campofranco estimated. ''We feel that Westchester is in a solid trend line of slowly reducing its available inventory of space.''
 Of the $4.9 million tax break, Reckson will get $1 million off its mortgage taxes and nearly $3.9 million in sales tax breaks, which it will pass along to prospective tenants as an incentive to move into its building. 
 Companies with projects that cost at least $150,000 and result in job creation can apply for tax incentives, said Teri Waivada, executive director of the Industrial Development Agency. The agency financed 10 new projects last year, she said.

Mamaroneck Village Rebuke
 A federal judge has criticized the Village of Mamaroneck Zoning Board for caving in to politically connected neighbors in denying an Orthodox Jewish school the permission to build an addition on its 25-acre property. 
 Judge William C. Conner of District Court ruled early this month that the zoning board interfered with the Westchester Day School's practice of religion, in violation of a federal religious land-use law requiring governments not to place undue burdens on religious institutions. 
 The zoning board at first granted the school the permit, reversing itself after ''intense and unrelenting pressure from politically well-connected neighboring residents,'' Judge Conner wrote in a 160-page decision critical of the actions. 
 Westchester Day School filed suit in 2002, but the case did not go to its nonjury trial until November 2005. The judge issued his decision on March 2.
 Like other religious schools, he wrote, Westchester Day ''performs an extremely valuable public service, not only educating many children who would otherwise have to be educated at public expense, but also instilling in them principles of morality and ethics that will make them better members of society. For these reasons religious schools are favored property uses, and zoning boards are adjured to weigh their needs heavily against environmental concerns.'' 
 The village has said it plans to appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (79%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (65%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Hotels and Motels; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Hotels and Motels; Education and Schools; Jews; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Private and Sectarian Schools; Zoning; Land Use Policies

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Marriott Corp; Reckson Associates Realty Corp; Westchester Day School

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%); SLG (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%)

PERSON: Debra West; edward w kelly; William C (Judge) Conner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) North Salem (NY); Croton Falls (NY); Westchester County (NY) ; Rye Brook (NY); Mamaroneck (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



398 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: They Can Go Home Again

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
A PERMANENTLY unfolded futon bed, piles of clothing and the smell of stale smoke make Sean Sciubba's cottage in Sea Cliff, N.Y., seem a lot like a college dorm room.
 ''They call it 'The Studio,' '' Mr. Sciubba, 23, said of the friends who visit, weary of the childhood bedrooms they've returned to in their own parents' homes.
Mr. Sciubba's loftlike converted garage behind his mother's lavender Victorian affords him more privacy.
 ''The only time I see my mother is when I'm in the office,'' Mr. Sciubba said. Both work at Sherlock Holmes Realty in Sea Cliff; he is the rental manager and she is a real estate agent. 
 It is hardly news that 20- and 30-somethings are living with their parents, camped in a back cottage or a childhood bedroom. The arrangement passes for entertainment, from the Fox sitcom ''Free Ride,'' about a college graduate who moves back in with his parents, to the comedy ''Failure to Launch,'' starring Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker, about a 35-year-old man who never left home.
 But the cost of real estate is making plenty of strange housefellows, with siblings, elderly parents and children, work mates and friends doubling up to save on the mortgage or rent.
 Some local governments are cracking down on cohabitants who are not related. In extreme cases, where day laborers and other immigrants are crowded into houses meant for single families, they are evicting.
 Even the classic ''mother-daughter'' arrangement -- a single-family home with an apartment added for a parent -- is increasingly likely to be illegal, as the cost of building such an apartment to conform to building and zoning codes can run up to $100,000.
 And yet people all over the suburbs are making shared housing work, with some finding happiness and comfort in living with those they know and maybe even love.
 ''It doesn't feel that crowded since they're all family,'' said Ismama Joseph, 52, who lives in a four-bedroom duplex in Norwalk, Conn., with her husband, two adult daughters, their husbands and the five grandchildren she cares for while the others are at work. ''But it would be impossible with strangers.'' 
 In Fairfield County, many older people -- ''people who have lived their entire lives in Norwalk'' -- are selling and moving in with their children, according to Carol Ann Falasca, a broker at Coldwell Banker Real Estate in Norwalk. ''Their children went to the schools here and all of a sudden they're retired and they cannot afford to stay because of the taxes,'' she said. 
 In New Jersey, Gordon Crawford, a real estate agent with Re/Max Properties Unlimited in Morristown, said about 10 percent of his buyers have been groups of family members buying together. 
 One such group included Suzanne Rosengold, a single mother, who was living last year with her daughter, Hanna, in a one-bedroom rental apartment in Parsippany, N.J., in the same complex as her parents.
 When Ms. Rosengold's grandfather died last year, the family inherited a Florida condominium that they sold, planning to use the proceeds for a down payment on a house.
 After looking at dozens of houses, the Rosengolds found a four-bedroom ranch in Lake Hiawatha, a suburb of Parsippany. All three generations moved in last July -- the first time any of them had owned a home.
 The mortgage payment is the same as the combined rents the Rosengolds were paying before. 
 ''It has really changed our whole lives,'' Ms. Rosengold said. ''My daughter has her own room now. Before, she had a converted dining room.''
 Her father, Edward Rosengold, 63, said: ''I do things now that I've never done before. I have my own workshop. I build things, I repair things.'' 
 In another three-generation household, in Fairfield, Conn., Christina and Raul Diaz live in a three-bedroom 1,750-square-foot ranch with Mr. Diaz's 59-year-old mother, Leonor Martinez. Ms. Martinez takes care of the couple's 2-year-old daughter, while they work in nearby Stamford.
 But the household will be growing, Ms. Diaz said. Her mother, Beth Bodnar, 70, who recently retired, is moving in soon, and the couple hope to have another baby next year. 
 Ms. Diaz has been looking for about four months for a bigger house that the family can afford in Fairfield. They need about 2,500 square feet and, ideally, a ground-floor master bedroom, she said. 
 But pickings are slim.
 ''We're probably going to have to put it off another year to save more,'' Ms. Diaz said. 
 The couple is assuming that the real estate market is not going to change at all, she added. ''My big concern is how much equity we can get out of our existing house, because I feel like it's a buyer's market, not a seller's market,'' she said.
 Baby boomers reaching retirement age who want to move to a warmer climate are also increasingly helping their adult children expand their homes or buy a larger house. 
 They don't want to lose total contact with their lives here after moving to Florida or Arizona, said Elayne Jassey, a real estate agent with Prudential Connecticut Realty in Stamford. 
 Expanding one's living space to accommodate a relative may be a good investment, in spite of the cost of complying with zoning codes and the possibility of higher property taxes. 
 While ''real estate prices have exploded,'' said Robert Campbell, professor of real estate finance at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., construction costs have risen more slowly with inflation. Under those conditions, he said, ''building onto your own house is one of the best things that you can possibly do.'' 
 But where young people are concerned, multigenerational living is often seen as temporary. Matt Wolff, 31, has been living at his parents' home in White Plains, for two years since friends with whom he shared an apartment in Bronxville went their separate ways.
 Mr. Wolff is saving for a down payment on a co-op, ''the last bastion of affordability'' in the area, according to his father, Nick Wolff, who owns Century 21 Wolff, a six-office real estate agency based in White Plains.
 ''It's not a problem for us,'' the senior Mr. Wolff said of his son's situation, ''but from his standpoint, he's a grown man and wants to be on his own and have privacy.''
 On Long Island, Sean Sciubba also says he won't stay in his mother's cottage forever. ''I work in real estate,'' he said. ''I've done the research. Hopefully, I'll be able to get out of there soon.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Three generations of Rosengolds are living under one roof in a four-bedroom ranch in a suburb of Parsippany, N.J. From top left: Lana, Suzanne, Hanna and Edward. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 Matt Wolff, left, with his father, Nick, has lived with his parents for two years in White Plains as he saves for a co-op. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); ZONING (70%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (62%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Suburbs ; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (51%) Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



399 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Cash and Carry Democracy

BYLINE: By Rachel Leon. 
Rachel Leon is executive director of Common Cause New York, a nonprofit group that tracks the influence of money in politics.

 BODY:
THE fact that an individual is allowed to give more money to a candidate for New York State office than to a presidential contender should tell New Yorkers that our campaign finance laws need to be fixed. 
 Many New Yorkers have a sense that money plays an all too important role in state political campaigns. Many also believe that campaigns are paid for largely by special interests and wealthy individuals who represent neither the diversity of our state nor the best interests of the public at large in their interactions with elected officials.
But sensing that things are bad and facing up to the ugly facts are not the same. Sensing warrants investigation. Seeing the facts warrants action. 
 Well, the facts are in. My group's research shows that campaigns in New York rank among the most expensive in the country. While 99 percent of New Yorkers give nothing directly to state-level political campaigns, those few who do give make contributions in amounts that are far beyond the reach of most New Yorkers. 
 The federal contribution limit for individuals giving directly to candidates is $2,100. In New York, however, an individual can contribute up to $3,400 for Assembly candidates, $8,500 for State Senate candidates and $33,900 for statewide candidates in the general election. As a result, in the 2002 gubernatorial, 2004 legislative and current 2006 election cycles, more than 55 percent of the money received by candidates for state office came via checks written for more than $2,100. Put another way, more than 55 percent of the campaign contributions made by individuals in New York State would have been illegal if given to presidential and Congressional candidates. 
 Furthermore, the cost of campaigns in New York is high and rising, making this small group of donors increasingly important to candidates. The cost of a winning gubernatorial campaign has almost quadrupled since 1986, when the winning candidate spent more than $11 million, and has increased more than eightfold since 1990, to $44 million in 2002. Even when adjusted for inflation, the cost of a winning campaign has more than doubled since 1986, and has increased sixfold since 1990. 
 When candidates feel pressure to raise large sums of money to be competitive, wealthy individuals and other corporate and special interest groups grow in influence and importance while the rest of us are pushed ever more into the sidelines of our democracy. 
 Dramatically lowering the cap on individual contributions to a level more comparable with the federal limit would help control this influence. But if New Yorkers are to have confidence in the system that elects their public servants, attention must also be paid to how campaign funds are spent. The single largest category of expenses for state legislative candidates in the 2004 election cycle was not television ads or fundraising but ''other.'' Winning candidates also tend to spend a significant portion of their money outside the height of the election season. These two troubling facts highlight the pervasive practice of candidates using campaign funds for purposes that stretch the definition of ''campaign expense'' to its breaking point. 
 When candidates can use campaign funds for everything from country club memberships to luxury car leases, special interests are able to make an end-run around our gift restrictions by effectively supporting candidates' lifestyles. If the public is to invest in a strong system of campaign finance, they need to know that campaign money will be appropriately spent.
 So in addition to a cap on individual contributions, lawmakers should embrace a ban on the use of campaign funds for personal use. Lawmakers should also push for improved disclosure and enforcement and public financing of elections. 
 Connecticut has recently proved that state legislatures can enact comprehensive campaign finance reform. And New York City has a program of partial public financing of elections that is considered a national model. It's time for New York State to follow their lead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (94%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); ETHICS (72%) Finances; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (59%) Common Cause (Orgn)

PERSON: Rachel Leon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



400 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Here to Stay. For Now. 

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
AFTER living for 14 years on four acres in Bedford, Greg Smith and Deborah Dodds were ready for a change. With 9-year-old twins, they wanted a home in a neighborhood, the kind of place where there are lots of kids and a spare cup of sugar is as close as the kitchen next door.
 They found just the place, a four-year-old colonial on a cul-de-sac in the same town, and they put in an offer, but reconsidered when they could not get what they wanted for their five-bedroom, three-bath home, which they priced near $1.3 million. Rather than move, they have decided to invest in improvements to the home, a 1960's colonial, even though they still intend to move in the next couple of years.
''We don't want to build the Taj Mahal,'' Ms. Dodds said. ''We'll live here maybe two years afterward. We want it to be comfortable and economical.'' 
 It is a delicate balancing act. According to suburban homeowners, designers and builders, remodeling projects are increasingly being influenced by the uncertainty of the real estate market. When do you reach for the stars and when do you stick with the basics? For each homeowner, the answer is different. 
 Ms. Dodds said she and her husband examined their own needs while considering the comments of potential buyers who toured the house. The couple had already redone the kitchen, but, according to the real estate broker's feedback, buyers said they would have liked the house better if the master bathroom had been updated and if the house had a larger family room.
 ''We learned some things by putting it on the market,'' said Ms. Dodds, who runs two businesses from her home, one selling high-end women's clothing and the other teaching scrapbooking. ''It's very hard to compete against new construction.''
 Working with the interior designer Susan Marocco of Bedford, the couple decided to upgrade the bathroom for about $8,000. ''I don't have time to do a gut,'' Ms. Dodds said.
 That is not to say Mr. Smith and Ms. Dodds are not going to make some major improvements. They are currently planning to expand into the garage to create a large family room off the kitchen and build a separate two-car garage with a second story that could be used as an office or in-law apartment. The cost of that project has not been determined, but could be in the neighborhood of $100,000, Ms. Dodds said.
 ''It will help with resale and make us comfortable the next couple of years,'' she said. 
 Like Mr. Smith and Ms. Dodds, Steven P. Grossman is remodeling his home, a 1970's high ranch in Bellmore, N.Y., with an eye to selling it as well as his own comfort. 
 Mr. Grossman, who listed the house about 18 months ago, could not sell it, even after he dropped the price $200,000 to $895,000; following the advice of his real estate agent, he had made no improvements before putting the house on the market. This time around, he is taking a different approach.
 Based on buyers' negative comments, he created a plan to solve problems while making himself happy. He paved a dirt road that leads to the property and is now replacing windows, altering the facade and putting on new decks. He has plans to upgrade the kitchen, gut the bathrooms and make cosmetic changes throughout.
 To treat himself, he replaced old sliding glass doors with a wall of windows that accentuate the water views.
 ''Every day I walk upstairs in my house and say that's the best money I spent,'' he said.
 Mr. Grossman estimates the cost of the improvements between $100,000 and $150,000 and says he has carefully assessed costs based on the impact the improvements may have on resale.
 For example, while he will be putting new stainless steel appliances in the kitchen, he did not go for the top of the line. Rather than removing old cabinetry, he is having it painted and new hardware put on.
 ''I'm hedging whether I'm staying or going,'' he said. ''I didn't want to go full bore because one never knows if this is a bubble and when the bubble might burst.''
 Besides the real estate market and their personal comfort, Catherine and Stephen Candland of Greenwich, Conn., had one more consideration as they restored and updated their turn of the century Arts and Crafts home for nearly 10 years: maintaining the architectural integrity of the house.
 Their major projects included turning an addition that once housed a doctor's office into a kitchen, family room, spare guest rooms and office. The third-floor attic was turned into bedrooms for two daughters, a family room, bathroom and laundry room. A master bedroom was created, a pool and patio added and numerous small steps taken to restore architectural features to the home.
 Now, with three daughters aged 13, 17 and 20, the Candlands think they are short-timers in the house. As they move forward on what will probably be their final major project, working with Stephanie Ladoff-Koch, the owner of Ladd Design of New Canaan, Conn., they are also factoring in how far they want to go in an uncertain market.
 ''We could have spent twice or even three time what we were going to spend on this project,'' Ms. Candland said. ''We decided we would balance it with our original three goals. 
 ''Historically Greenwich has held its value, but I think a number of things are happening in Connecticut and it's naive to assume that things won't slow down.''
 While they knew they wanted to take down a wall to open up the entryway, a decision on whether to add a gas fireplace had to be carefully weighed against what it would cost to open a hidden flue. 
 The Candlands decided to go with a fireplace, but chose electric, an alternative that would not require opening up the flue. 
 For some homeowners, especially those who expect to be staying put for a while, comfort outweighs the investment factor in home improvement. Darlene Branch and her husband, Leonard, of Orange, N.J., had hoped to move to a community with a better school system, but found themselves priced out of the market in places like Montclair and Glen Ridge and are considering private school for their children.
 For now, they are altering their six-bedroom Victorian home to better suit their needs as well as those of their 4-year-old twins. Ms. Branch said they went ahead with a $16,000 basement remodeling so the children would have a place to play, even though she was told the improvement would not contribute much to the home's resale value. 
 The Branches put off a major kitchen remodeling, choosing instead to invest in new windows and convert the oil heater to gas for future energy savings. This summer she will make improvements to the outside of the house, replacing gutters and painting.
 Ms. Branch is also working with an interior designer, Nicole Bouknight, of Bloomfield, N.J., to redecorate the children's rooms and the living areas on the first floor.
 ''Even if you did all the renovations in the world, I don't think the market is going to hold,'' Ms. Branch said. ''So we decided let's do what makes us happy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deborah Dodds, left, and her daughter Katherine Smith, far right, at their Bedford home with Susan Marocco, a designer. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
 Darlene and Leonard Branch renovated their basement to give their 4-year-old twins a play area. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (71%); CITIES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Home Repairs and Improvements

PERSON: deborah dodds; Katherine Smith; Steven Grossman; Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

 
