

1 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
Quandary: To Hold, Haggle Or Sell?

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS who watched the gyrations of the stock market over the last few weeks and hoped apartment prices would plummet have been disappointed. The Manhattan real estate market has stubbornly defied expectations.
 Kate Tentler, who runs the Web site at Simon & Schuster, went loft hunting in the East Village last Sunday, partly out of curiosity and partly to help friends look for a place to live. 
 "I was surprised," she said. "I looked at a 1,500-square-foot loft that was $800,000." What had she thought the price would be? "I figured, with the economy, it would be half that." She paused. "I mean, it was just a regular East Village loft. Regular. I thought that for $800,000 you'd get dancing cherubs -- you know, something really special." 
Buoyed by low interest rates and a cadre of stock-burned investors hoping to diversify their portfolios, Manhattan's real estate market is chugging into August. Real estate analysts report no sign of a dip.
Brokers say some of their buyers are expressing anxiety about whether the co-ops and condominiums will hold their value; Robert Bland of Brown Harris, for one, described many of his prospective buyers as "on edge." Nonetheless, statistics show that New Yorkers are still reaching for their wallets; there were more contracts signed last month than in July, 2001. Since May, the average price has remained stable, according to Jonathan Miller, who gathers and analyzes statistics for Douglas Elliman, the city's largest real estate agency. 
Despite the stock market's 390-point slide on July 19, Mr. Miller said, the real estate market has continued apace. This does not surprise the experts, who say real estate rarely runs parallel to the stock market. It took two years after the 1987 stock market crash for Manhattan property values to fall, and the market then was overloaded with poorly built cookie-cutter co-ops and condominiums. 
The current Manhattan real estate market's surge has come from the sale of low- and midpriced apartments. Young people, aided by low interest rates, are flocking to buy: prices of studio apartments rose 22 percent from a year ago, and prices of one-bedroom apartments are up 19 percent, Mr. Miller said.
Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, said the numbers represented "these kids who normally would have rented." In many cases, she said, parents are buying small apartments for their children because "even if the real estate market softens, they see it as a safe investment." 
Increasingly, apartment shoppers say they are seeking a refuge for at least some of what is left in their portfolios. "The word we hear most often is diversification," said Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg Real Estate in Manhattan. Some are liquidating stocks to upgrade their real estate, even if they have to take a mortgage.
Brokers say they are seeing hordes of bedraggled investors, many having watched their more fortunate friends pull out of technology stocks in time to buy their dream duplex on Park Avenue. They hung on over the last year as Nasdaq, where the high-tech stocks traded, nose-dived. They now find themselves trying to sink what's left of their portfolios into real estate.
"But they're finding they can no longer get what their friends did," said Diane Ramirez, president of the Halstead Property Company. "Their friends got into the fancy buildings that require all cash. They don't have that much cash, so they're having to look for apartments in buildings that allow mortgages."
Their solace may be low interest rates: the average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage is 6.375 percent.
Yet some financial planners say that New York real estate may be a precarious investment solution to dwindling stock portfolios. "We're close to a speculative bubble in New York real estate," said Lewis Altfest, president of L. J. Altfest & Company. 
Mr. Altfest warned his clients who are buying strictly for investment, not because they want to make a home, that the real estate market is vulnerable to a reversal.
"Not that stocks are dramatically cheap," he said, "but they may be a better deal than real estate right now." Co-op prices are so high, he added, "that people are getting motion sickness looking down." 
But to Maureen Barry, a 58-year-old investor who is looking for a Greenwich Village building to buy, it doesn't matter that the price of Manhattan real estate may drop a bit. "That's always a possibility," she said. "But it comes back."
She and her husband, James, 60, live in Florida during the winter and in Vermont in the summer. "I'm looking with a dual purpose," she said. "I've got a daughter in New York, and I want to find suitable housing for her and diversify as well." The couple have not cashed out of the stock market yet, but Ms. Barry, a retired management consultant, said they probably would liquidate some of their holdings as soon as they find a property in the city. 
"Our need is driving the timing," she said, "but we both grew up in the New York area, and I've always felt that real estate was a good investment. It's tangible, solid."
Thomas Marrazza has just found a similar property, a building he will live in while leasing the rest. Mr. Marrazza, who runs a business renting out darkrooms, was looking for an apartment; he found a five-story building in TriBeCa and will keep the top floor for himself. "If you find a bargain out there," he said, "you got to go for it. Even if the price would have gone a little lower in the next year, the interest rates are so low now it all evens up."
That is not to say this year's midsummer market is roaring upward like the spring market. "The market is a good summer market, but it's not as frenetic as in the spring," Ms. Ramirez, the president of Halstead, said. 
The open-house crowds of April have thinned out. Instead of Sundays over the classifieds and cappuccino, renters and buyers now prefer to look at apartments on Monday and Tuesday nights, once they are back in town. Attendance has dropped, too, from highs of 80 down to 20, agents say. Brokers contend that that is the normal summer attendance, and may even be somewhat higher than in past years. 
"There is definitely a summer slowdown," Mr. Peters of Ashforth Warburg said, "but it's difficult to tell how much has to do with the swooning summer weather." Still, he said, prices remain stable.
At the Corcoran Group, Ms. Liebman, the chief executive, agreed that sales volume was down from the spring. Nevertheless, she said, the total value of apartments her company sold during July was 29.6 percent higher than in July, 2001.
Brokers complain that the supply of good apartments is still tight, and they say there are still more buyers than there are apartments to sell them. Although inventory is higher than at the end of May, it is still a lot lower than last December, when buyers were still suffering from post-Sept. 11 fear to commit.
Mr. Bland, the agent for Brown Harris, said people of all income levels are stretching to buy something they believe is a better real estate investment.
"I see guys who may have started looking for a $500,000 one-bedroom suddenly saying, 'I think I'll push it up to $750,000 and get a two-bedroom,' " he said. 
Prices remain high, Mr. Bland added, because there are plenty of customers filling in from the bottom. 
Without these low-end buyers, Manhattan's real estate market might be in worse shape, the analysts agree.
Mr. Miller, the statistician and real estate appraiser, said the growing importance of the lower-rung buyer could be seen in the figures for July.
Last month, studio buyers made up 21 percent of the market, up from 15 percent last spring. One-bedroom buyers rose from 33 percent of the market to 37 percent. The biggest shift in the other direction came from two-bedroom buyers, whose numbers shrank from 45 percent in the spring to 27 percent in July. 
"Those two-bedroom buyers were the guys on Wall Street who just lost their jobs," Mr. Miller said.

A Timetable for Buying or Cashing Out
ALTHOUGH sales of Manhattan condominiums and co-ops remain strong -- and prices are high -- many prospective buyers and sellers are seeking advice in what they fear is an uncertain real estate marketplace.
Should they buy now or wait for a market downturn? Should they bid low, or offer full price to avoid a bidding war? Should they sell now, cashing out while they can?
Here's the bad news: there's no clear answer. It depends on one's circumstances. But statistics do not indicate any need to dump a co-op out of fear the real estate market is about to crash, just as there's no reason to think you will get a steal anytime soon. Nevertheless, if you're thinking of selling anyway, analysts say it might be smart to take advantage of your co-op or condo's appreciation. (Married people get $500,000 profit tax-free; singles get $250,000.) Call a broker to see how much your property is worth. If you're serious about selling, appraisals are free.
Pamela Liebman, chief executive at the Corcoran Group, a large Manhattan broker, said that some sellers have become more ready to negotiate over the last month, but that may be because they priced their apartments too high after this spring's booming market. 
Some experts counsel prudence, buying only blue chip real estate: apartments in well-run buildings in established locations, with sunny views and, if possible, one of those extras that always attracts buyers, even in a down market. Look for a wood-burning fireplace, a terrace, a high floor, white-glove doormen and original features like wood paneling and French doors. And don't buy a wreck, especially an expensive one.
"Condition and location are incredibly important in the current marketplace, and premier amenities never hurt," said Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg Real Estate.
Yet Mr. Peters worries that today's shoppers are too focused on investment value. "You have to want to live there," he said. "You can't forget you're buying a home." TRACIE ROZHON
Next week, how stock market volatility is affecting sales of second homes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SHOPPING AROUND -- Thomas Marrazza (in SoHo, left) was hunting for an apartment and found a building in TriBeCa where he can live on one floor and lease the rest. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. F7) Graph: "Holding Steady"The Manhattan real estate market shows no sign of a glut. The inventory of apartments for sale is about the same as it was in the first quarter of 2001. Prices are also similar to those of a year ago. Graph tracks real estate in Manhattan since March.(Source: Miller Samuel)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); STATISTICS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



2 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
A Shift Registers in Willingness to Pay for Internet Content

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
More Internet users are showing a willingness to pay for content online -- subscribing to news sites, for example, or paying fees to send e-greeting cards -- suggesting a shift in consumers' expectations that online services should be free, according to a survey of cyberspending patterns released yesterday.
 But the survey, put out by the Online Publishers Association, an industry trade group, also shows that a relative handful of businesses benefit from these purchases and that advertising remains the overwhelming source of income for supporting digital content. 
 Extrapolating the online transactions of 1.1 million consumers, the survey found that consumers spent $675 million for digital goods and services in 2001, nearly double the $350 million they spent the year earlier. The survey found that 12.4 million Americans paid for some type of content in the first quarter of this year, compared with 7 million in the first quarter of 2001. The survey did not include payments made to pornography sites. 
A big chunk of the spending accrued to business and financial news sites, which in 2001 racked up $214.3 million in revenue from selling content, mainly through monthly and annual subscriptions.
"It's where people need information the fastest that influences their livelihood," said Michael A. Zimbalist, executive director of the Online Publishers Association, which is based in New York. The association includes about 20 major online publishers, including New York Times Digital, The Wall Street Journal Online, Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive, MSNBC.com, ESPN.com and CBS Marketwatch.
The strength of business and financial news sites comes as little surprise given that financial sites started selling content relatively early in the history of the Web; the category has been anchored by the success of The Wall Street Journal Online, which, with roughly 650,000 subscribers, accrued the second-most revenue, after Real Networks, a distributor of audio and video material.
Several other prominent media companies have recently introduced for-pay packages on their Web sites. ABC.com said yesterday that it would begin charging $4.95 a month for "ABC News On Demand," which includes news clips and day-after replays of "World News Tonight" and "Nightline," as well as 30 days of the programs' archives. CNN.com began charging for access to video on its site earlier this year.
Mr. Zimbalist said the industry had also been heartened by a very recent surge of content sales in several emerging categories, notably personals and dating sites, one of the fastest-growing categories, with $72 million in sales in 2001. In just the first quarter of 2002, it had sales of $53.1 million.
In addition, there has been a sudden growth of revenue among sports sites, which are selling subscriptions to fantasy sports leagues and access to sports news and statistics, and among online greeting card companies, some of which now charge people to send virtual cards. American Greetings.com has accrued 1.5 million subscribers, who pay $11.95 a year, since it started selling subscriptions in December, according to the company's chief executive, Josef Mandelbaum.
Mr. Zimbalist said the growth in these categories suggested that businesses are beginning to figure out how to package their services in ways that appeal to consumers, and that consumers are overcoming the idea that content on the Internet should be free.
Mr. Mandelbaum, whose company also owns Blue Mountain Arts, eGreetings and Beatgreets, said: "In the past five years, we trained consumers that content was free -- that was our fault." He added that there had been a "general reluctance, but slowly but surely, people are paying for content."
The story behind the growth in sales of e-greeting cards, however, underscores that in some regards the spending patterns are quite narrow. Mr. Mandelbuam said AmericanGreetings and its subsidiaries controlled some 75 percent of the free e-greeting market; it and Hallmark.com, a competitor, now command much of the subscriber-based market, meaning that the growth in the category is accruing to just a few businesses.
Similarly, just as The Wall Street Journal dominates subscription revenue in the online financial category, Real Networks draws more than half of the revenue in the entertainment-lifestyle category. Real Networks, which has 750,000 subscribers to its premium services, had the most revenue from content sales in 2001. 
Generally, the survey found that of the 1,700 sites charging for content, the 100 with the most revenue drew 97 percent of all revenue and the top 50 sites drew 85 percent of the revenue.
Neil Budde, publisher of The Wall Street Journal Online, said that one common theme he has seen among sites that are successfully charging for content is that they have created an audience eager to return for information or services on a frequent basis. "If most of your traffic is once a month, or once every couple of months," he said, "you've got less of a chance than if you've got regular repeat visitors."
According to the survey, revenue from sales of online content in 2001 constituted about one-eleventh of the $7.2 billion in advertising-based online revenue. But Mr. Zimbalist, noting that content sales hit $300 million in the first quarter of this year -- nearly half the total for all of last year -- said he believed that fees paid for content could become an increasingly large piece of the pie, perhaps as much as one-fifth of the revenue. "It is becoming a leg on the stool that supports online publishing," he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the increased willingness of consumers to pay for online content misidentified the Web site that has begun charging for ABC video news clips and news programs. It is ABCNews.com, not ABC.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); SPORTS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); ESPN INC (54%)

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



3 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: After Bitter Dispute, Newspaper Changes Hands 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
The Salt Lake Tribune is noting the final phase of its bitterly disputed ownership transition with an editorial in today's editions that promises that "the newspaper will serve all of Utah and be beholden to no one." 
 A federal appeals court on Tuesday rejected an effort by the newspaper's former owners to retain control of the publication. 
 The final transition, by which MediaNews group is taking control of The Tribune 19 months after it paid $200 million for the paper's parent company, comes after two years of contentious legal struggles. 
The bitterness of the fight was aggravated by the suspicions of Salt Lake City's non-Mormon community -- including the newspaper's former owners -- that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints would use the new owners to exert control over the proudly non-Mormon newspaper, which was founded more than 130 years ago by Mormon dissidents.
Salt Lake's population is split almost equally between Mormons and non-Mormons, but the church is the dominant cultural, political and economic force in the city. The other daily newspaper in town, The Deseret News, is owned by the church.
The newspapers participate in a joint operating agreement, sharing business functions like advertising and distribution. This relationship has been bitter, with the professional managers of the two sides feuding over business issues. The feud was spiced with the fears of Tribune managers and supporters that the church wanted to control -- and perhaps silence -- the loudest non-Mormon voice in town.
The fact that the church encouraged the MediaNews takeover while fighting the former owner's effort to rebuy the newspaper confirmed the suspicions of many local non-Mormons that the paper they regarded as their own was effectively subject to a hostile takeover.
The former owners sold the newspaper's parent company, Kearns-Tribune, to the cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. in 1997, in a $731 million deal intended to reap the gains from a massive appreciation of TCI stock that was owned by Kearns-Tribune. As part of the deal, the heirs of Senator Thomas Kearns, who bought the newspaper in 1901, secured an option to buy it back.
TCI was bought by AT&T, whose executives were sick of the local feud and nervous about irritating the church just when they were trying to sell cable subscriptions in Utah. In 1999, AT&T explored selling The Tribune to The News. When that sale proved unfeasible, AT&T executives eventually settled on a price with MediaNews, whose flagship newspaper is The Denver Post.
The circumstances of the sale fed local suspicions that Dean Singleton, the head of MediaNews, was a stalking horse for church interests. During three days of meetings with The Tribune's 144 journalists and with civic leaders this week, Mr. Singleton said he met with wary questions about how close his ties were to the church. (He is a Baptist, and has served on an advisory board for Brigham Young University.)
Philip McCarthey, the Kearns heir who apparently is the loser in the fight for control, still insists he has a right to buy back the newspaper. Mr. McCarthey said yesterday that he felt "angry and betrayed" by everyone from the AT&T executive who pushed for the sale to The Tribune's editor, James E. Shelledy, who has agreed to continue in the job.
The Tribune, published in the morning, has a daily circulation of about 143,000; the afternoon News has a daily circulation of 88,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip McCarthey, the Salt Lake Tribune Publishing Company chairman, spoke on Tuesday to staff members. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); JOURNALISM (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); WRITERS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (58%); KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



4 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Senate Moves Against Tax-Haven Companies 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31 

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to bar companies that move to countries considered offshore tax havens from winning military contracts as Democrats stepped up their emphasis on an issue they think has growing political appeal.
 As part of a record $355.4 billion military spending bill, the Senate accepted an amendment by Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, that would prohibit any company that reincorporates after Dec. 31, 2001, in designated tax havens like Bermuda from receiving Pentagon contracts. 
 "If a U.S. company wants to bid for a contract for U.S. defense work, it should not renounce its corporate citizenship for a tax break," said Mr. Wellstone, who is in a tough re-election fight. 
The practice of American corporations obtaining a mailbox in nations like Bermuda and the Bahamas to avoid taxes has come under increasing scrutiny. The House voted overwhelmingly last week to prohibit such companies from doing work with the proposed Department of Homeland Security.
Two leading Republicans took issue with the Wellstone proposal, saying it could cost Americans jobs because the companies under fire have most of their operations in the United States. Such a ban could backfire by shifting military contracts to foreign companies that do most of their work overseas or inviting trade retaliation, they said. These opponents said such a change in law should be made as part of overall tax revisions under consideration in the House and Senate.
"This is easy to demagogue, but it is a complicated issue in tax policy," said Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant Republican leader.
Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said he had no sympathy for companies that move to offshore tax havens but accused Democrats of playing into public anger over corporate irresponsibility.
"We are in an environment where slapping business around is good politics," he said.
But in a sign of the sensitivity of the issue, lawmakers allowed the amendment to be adopted on a voice vote rather than force senators to go on the record with their positions.
Mr. Wellstone said he had no idea how many companies might be affected by his provision and said he was acting to discourage further moves offshore. But he said about $2 billion in current military-related work was being done by companies now based in offshore tax havens.
Lawmakers cited a few of the several dozen companies that have reincorporated offshore in recent years from a list being circulated by Democratic members of the Ways and Means Committee. The list included Foster Wheeler, with $248 million in military and homeland security-related contracts; Tyco International, with $182 million; Accenture, with $144 million; PricewaterhouseCoopers, with $129 million; and Ingersoll-Rand, $39 million.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the assistant Democratic leader and a strong proponent of the amendment, said companies could easily escape the ban. "All they have to do is come back where they came from and reincorporate in America," he said. "That is the patriotic thing to do."
Besides Bermuda and the Bahamas, nations that would be covered include Barbados, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Gibraltar, the Isle of Man, Liechtenstein, Monaco, the Seychelles and other nations designated by the Treasury secretary. The president could waive the restriction in the interest of national security.
The House has already adopted its military spending measure and it contains no such provision on the offshore companies. As a result, the two measures must be reconciled in a conference committee.
The bill the Senate hopes to approve on Thursday represents a $34 billion increase over the current year and finances most of the administration's military priorities, including a 4.1 percent military pay raise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); TRENDS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TAXATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%); ACCENTURE PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (51%); ACN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



5 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: After Easy Victories, Brooklyn State Senator Faces a Tough Primary Battle 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
In the 10 years since she was first elected to the State Senate, Nellie Santiago has never faced an election without a Democratic primary challenge. Still, Ms. Santiago, who represents Bushwick and Cypress Hills in Brooklyn, has typically won easily with wide margins over little-known opponents.
 Coasting to victory this year is shaping up to be a far more difficult matter for Ms. Santiago. She is opposed in the Sept. 10 primary by Martin Malave-Dilan, a former city councilman who represented much of the area for 10 years before being forced out of office by the city's term-limit laws. 
 The race, in the 17th State Senate District, has already become notable for its rancorous tone and its extensive backdrop of local politics. The contest is notable for the assortment of political figures who are entangled in it, from district Assembly members to the local congressman.
Ms. Santiago, 60, was elected in 1992 and became the first Puerto Rican woman from Brooklyn in the Senate. She holds a doctorate in education from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
In a recent interview, she said she has focused on economic development in her district and on making capital more widely available to the business owners among her constituents, who are overwhelmingly working-class Hispanic and black. In particular, she said she took pride in having played a major role in negotiations leading to passage this summer of a bill curbing a practice known as predatory lending. The bill is meant to regulate high-interest home loans that are often unaffordable for the borrower, worth more than the house itself and loaded with fees.
"The banks have left out neighborhoods," Ms. Santiago said. "And I have made banking issues a particularly strong part of my responsibility to my constituents. I want our people here to have the same opportunities and access to money and fair-lending practices that everyone else gets."
Mr. Dilan and his supporters contend that Ms. Santiago, who has served five terms, has been inattentive and barely visible within the district, which also includes parts of Williamsburg and Greenpoint. Mr. Dilan has made that issue the focus of his campaign.
"When it comes to this senatorial district, she is never around," said Mr. Dilan, 51. "You never see her at community meetings, at neighborhood events or anything else. Nothing. And when it comes to services to her constituents, there is no semblance of effectiveness."
Ms. Santiago acknowledges that Mr. Dilan is unlike any other opponent she has faced. For one, he has raised $44,000, compared with the $40,000 that Ms. Santiago's campaign reported in a filing last month.
His campaign is also being waged with a great deal of political assistance. Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, a Democrat who runs a vibrant political club in the area, is an important ally. Mr. Lopez's group, the Bushwick United Democratic Club, has an active membership of nearly 400 people. (Mr. Lopez had more than 200 club members collecting 6,600 petition signatures for Mr. Dilan.)
"She is absolutely, totally not visible," said Mr. Lopez, whose Assembly district is within the Senate district. "I go to community meetings and she is never there. No one in this district would dispute that, unless they need psychological help."
Mr. Dilan is campaigning vigorously. One morning this week, for example, he was at a subway stop in Cypress Hills with a team of half a dozen campaign workers, including his son, City Councilman Erik Dilan, greeting residents and passing out literature. "We do this every day and every evening," he said.
By contrast, when asked if a reporter could accompany Ms. Santiago on a campaign appearance this week, an aide to the senator said that she was so immersed in reviewing challenges to her petition forms that she would not be making any campaign appearances for "the next two to three weeks."
Besides Mr. Lopez, there are other forces working against Ms. Santiago. For one thing, United States Representative Edolphus Towns is supporting a candidate challenging Ms. Santiago's position as the female Democratic district leader. (Mr. Dilan is supporting yet another candidate for district leader against Ms. Santiago).
Mr. Towns, meanwhile, is trying to position himself as a continuing presence in grass-roots community politics. Besides working vigorously for the re-election of his son, Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns, the congressman is himself running for the male district leader position in that area.
Nonetheless, Ms. Santiago is not without resources. She has the support of the Democratic Party organization in Brooklyn and its chairman, Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr.
"She has been doing a great job," Mr. Norman said. "We're going to be very supportive of her."
As in previous campaigns, her re-election effort is being managed by her husband, Benito Fernandez, who runs the Brooklyn Manor, a home for mentally ill residents in East New York. Mr. Fernandez said that the campaign would probably raise and spend "somewhere between $100,000 and $150,000." If the past is an indication, the money will be used in the final weeks before the primary for a barrage of literature to voters.
Ms. Santiago said there are two reasons she expects to prevail on Sept. 10. One, she said, "as the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, I have a leadership role with the Senate Democrats," which voters understand is a "value to the district."
The other, she said, is Mr. Dilan's unsuitability for a Senate position. "I don't think he knows what it is to draft and pass a bill," she said. "He was a legislator for some time and now he isn't. I think he's doing this just because he needs the work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, State Senator Nellie Santiago is seeking a sixth term representing Bushwick and Cypress Hills in Brooklyn. Her opponent in the Democratic primary is Martin Malave-Dilan, a former city councilman. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TERM LIMITS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); FAIR LENDING (69%); PREDATORY LENDING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



6 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Golisano Focus: Job Creation

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
 This is a new 30-second commercial from the campaign of B. Thomas Golisano. It is titled "Three Thousand."

PRODUCER -- Erick Mullen and David Heller

ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial opens with a black screen with these words in white: "It started with $3,000." It then shifts to a scene with Mr. Golisano, dressed casually in a blue shirt, speaking about starting the company he founded. Then there are scenes of Mr. Golisano that flash quickly: one with him walking and talking with a well-dressed man and woman, another with Mr. Golisano standing in a classroom, and yet another with him near a street, immersed in conversation and using a lot of hand gestures. During this, several phrases float across the screen. They include Mr. Golisano's name, then the words "Three Billion Dollar Business," then "7,000 Employees." And finally, "This ad is not paid for with any special interest money."

THE SCRIPT -- A male voice says: "It started with $3,000."

The candidate says: "I wanted to start a pay service for small companies. Nobody would loan me the money. So I took everything I had -- $3,000 -- and started Paychex."

The announcer returns: "Tom Golisano turned Paychex into a billion-dollar business. More than 7,000 employees. He knows how to create jobs."

Then, Mr. Golisano says: "I am running for governor because I believe we can do better. We deserve better."

Finally, the male voice says: "Tom Golisano. If he can turn $3,000 into 7,000 jobs, just think what he'd do for New York."

ACCURACY -- This advertisement makes little in the way of claims. Mr. Golisano did, in fact, start his Rochester-based company. And the company has 7,000 employees.

SCORECARD -- The advertisement effectively promotes the idea that Mr. Golisano has created jobs, a point that is particularly geared to regions of the state battered by economic woes. It says nothing about what Mr. Golisano would to do create new jobs in the state nor anything about his philosophy on any of the political or social issues of the day. It also does not include any mention of political party and is apparently geared toward voters who have felt stung by the downturn in the economy both in New York City and in the western part of the state. JONATHAN P. HICKS

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); GOVERNORS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PAYCHEX INC (54%)

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



7 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Accusation Of Conflicts Ata Supplier To Hospitals 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
She was an eager new employee. Her company was the leader in its field, with a stated mission she could take pride in: to lower health care costs by helping hospitals buy supplies more cheaply.
 But in a matter of months, Cynthia Fitzgerald was out of work -- fired, she says, after complaining about her company's business practices, including pressure to steer millions of dollars in business to a former official of the buying group's predecessor. 
 "I don't look good in orange or in stripes," Ms. Fitzgerald said she told her supervisor after objecting to the way another contract was handled. Before long, the company, Novation, arranged to have her "escorted off the property by guards." 
Ms. Fitzgerald's accusations, which are disputed by Novation, are among the most serious to be leveled at this private company, which negotiates medical supply contracts worth $20 billion annually for a third of the nation's hospitals. Novation and another big buying group for hospitals, Premier Inc., have been accused in recent Congressional hearings of self-dealing and conflicts of interest that may have compromised their ability to find the best products at the lowest prices.
Ms. Fitzgerald, 44, made her comments recently under oath in a sealed deposition obtained by The New York Times. It is part of a lawsuit that a small medical device maker, Retractable Technologies, filed in a Texas federal court, accusing Novation and Premier of effectively locking it out of the hospital market. 
The two groups, which negotiate contracts for about two-thirds of the nation's hospitals, deny the accusations and are contesting them in court. 
Novation officials declined to be interviewed for this story. But in a statement, the group said it could not comment on Ms. Fitzgerald's accusations because they had been made in a sealed deposition. 
"We can, however, state that any decision to end Ms. Fitzgerald's employment was based on her work performance only," the statement added.
Ms. Fitzgerald, who once found inspiration in reciting the speeches of Martin Luther King to churchgoers, worked at Novation for just half a year -- long enough, and at a level high enough, she says, to witness contracting processes that made her uncomfortable. "Some of the methods were not above board," she testified. 
"There were undue pressures that were placed on contracting officers" to award contracts not necessarily based on price or quality, said Ms. Fitzgerald, who was herself a contracting officer.
Ms. Fitzgerald specifically complained that Novation for years had given special treatment to Heritage Bag, a garbage bag company in Texas represented by the former official of the buying group's predecessor, John M. Doyle. Mr. Doyle is the founder and former president of VHA Supply, a buying group that in 1998 merged with a smaller group to form Novation.
"I had been informed I would be fired if I didn't award it properly," she said in her deposition. Ms. Fitzgerald said she tried to find out why a seemingly mundane garbage bag contract was "sacrosanct."
"The only explanation that I ever received was that the contract belonged to Heritage Bag, it was going to belong to Heritage Bag, and that the last person who tried to remove that contract from Heritage Bag was in jeopardy of losing their job," she testified.
Novation's hospitals have been spending about $11 million a year on Heritage Bag's products, the buying group said in its statement. 
After Ms. Fitzgerald asked why Heritage's bags -- called can liners -- seemed to be getting favored treatment, her managers suddenly began questioning her competence and fired her, she said. 
Mr. Doyle said favoritism played no role in Heritage getting contracts from Novation.
"We give them as high a quality liner as there is in the industry, and the most competitive pricing in the industry," Mr. Doyle said.
Heritage Bag declined to answer questions about Ms. Fitzgerald's accusations.
The Times, in examining Ms. Fitzgerald's charges, found that Mr. Doyle resigned from the buying group in 1986 amid complaints that he had sexually harassed two female employees and discriminated against a third. 
"If John Doyle were the last man on this planet to have a job, I would starve before I'd go to work for this man again," said Deborah Long, who sued Mr. Doyle and his employer in federal court. She said Mr. Doyle abruptly demoted her during a staff meeting after she refused to let him into her hotel room at a convention. Her lawsuit has since been settled.
Mr. Doyle declined to be interviewed about the three women's charges.
Soon after Mr. Doyle began representing Heritage Bag as a manufacturer's representative, the company got its first contract with his former employer. Heritage has held that contract uninterrupted ever since -- for more than 13 years. Mr. Doyle said he received a commission every time a Novation hospital bought Heritage's garbage bags, but he declined to reveal the amount.
So how good is Novation's contract? 
For one thing, Novation recommends Heritage bags to its hospitals as a good buy. Even so, individual hospitals, consultants and smaller buying groups surveyed by The Times reported that if hospitals shop around they can get better deals on many of those same Heritage bags or on comparable bags made by other companies.
One medium-sized hospital in the Midwest found, for example, that if it were to switch to Novation's products, it would add about $10,000 a year, or about 11 percent, to its garbage-bag budget. The hospital executive who analyzed the prices asked not to be named because of a confidentiality agreement.
"There is much better bag pricing outside the Novation-Heritage agreement" -- sometimes more than 20 percent better, said Bob Bissell, a principal of CoalesCo Ltd., which sets up purchasing cooperatives for small groups of hospitals.
Two smaller buying groups separately compared their prices with Novation's prices for identical bags and each reported that its products were about 3 to 5 percent cheaper, on average, when the numbers were weighted to reflect the most frequently purchased bags. Both of these groups requested anonymity for fear of angering Heritage.
Some critics of Novation believe that products like the garbage bags may cost more because of the fees manufacturers must pay in connection with contracts, which are then built into their prices.
In a written response to questions about its prices, Novation said, "It is possible that on any given day and with respect to any given product, a hospital -- especially a large hospital system -- may be able to obtain a better price than Novation." But, the buying group said, these individual cases did not negate the overall economic benefits its contracts bring to participating hospitals. 
Ms. Fitzgerald joined Novation in 1998 after working as, among other things, a pharmaceutical representative. She said she initially earned praise from management for the way she went about picking companies to supply Novation's 2,500 hospitals nationwide.
Novation made her a senior contracting official, a position with considerable power.
Many companies, particularly the smaller or newer ones, say a supply contract with Novation, the nation's largest buying group for hospitals, can make or break them financially.
To secure these contracts, companies promise to pay Novation a percentage of what hospitals spend on their products, usually 3 percent or less of sales, but sometimes much more. Heritage Bag, for example, paid Novation more than 8 percent in fees.
Ms. Fitzgerald said in an interview that she recalled that Novation pushed to raise more and more revenue from suppliers. To satisfy her managers, she said, she persuaded one contractor, Becton Dickinson, to make an extra upfront contribution of $100,000 in connection with the awarding of a "sole source" catheter contract.
"I hate to say it, but I'm the one who dreamed it up; they told me they wanted to get revenue," Ms. Fitzgerald said, noting that she thought Becton Dickinson deserved the contract, even without the extra payment.
She said she was so proud of having secured the payment that she arranged to have Novation take a picture as the check was being handed over.
She said the extra money was to be used to finance a communication system within Novation.
Federal regulators have cautioned that such upfront payments might be construed as illegal kickbacks if they were used to obtain business.
Both Becton Dickinson and Novation say the payment was proper and legal.
On another occasion, Ms. Fitzgerald complained about a major contractor that appeared to be soliciting confidential information about a competitor's bid. She said she did not want to cooperate. She testified: "I turned to my manager, who was sitting next to me, and said, 'Oh, no. I don't look good in orange or in stripes.' "
She said her complaints were unheeded. 
Ms. Fitzgerald said she first heard about Heritage Bag's apparently special status within Novation from colleagues and from her supervisor. Later, she said, she told her managers she wanted nothing to do with awarding that contract. "I was not going to do that particular contract and if it was going to be done, that management would have to do it," she testified.
Soon after, Ms. Fitzgerald said, the accolades she had once received from management became criticism. "Everything changed," she said. "Suddenly, I was incompetent."
During her deposition, Novation produced her personnel file. In it, according to questions asked by Novation's lawyer, Ms. Fitzgerald was criticized for such offenses as failing to complete reports on time, and failing to complete projects. Ms. Fitzgerald objected strenuously to these characterizations of her work history. 
"I remember those issues coming to light after I made my accusations," she testified. "I thought it was very unusual that none of those issues had ever been raised prior to then."
After her dismissal, Ms. Fitzgerald founded her own medical distributorship. She offered her deposition only after being subpoenaed and said in her testimony she feared Novation would retaliate against her for speaking out about her experience.

Medicine's Middlemen
Articles in this series, which began on March 4, are examining purchasing groups that buy medical products for about half the nation's largest nonprofit hospitals. Previous articles described the close financial ties between those groups and medical supply companies. The series is online: 
nytimes.com/business

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Garbage Bags: a Comparison"Novation, a company that negotiates supply contracts for hospitals, says it typically gets the best deals on products. But an analysis of the prices paid for garbage bags by one hospital in the Southeast shows that it would pay more if it bought through Novation. Graph compares Novations price and One manufacturers price of hospital garbage bags per case (or roll) of bags. BAG SIZES:24 X 2733 x 4040 x 4843 x 48 THICKNESS OF PLASTIC:6 microns16 microns16 microns16 microns (Source: CoalesCo)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); TESTIMONY (87%); WITNESSES (87%); DEPOSITIONS (87%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MISAPPROPRIATION (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); RELIGION (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: PREMIER INC (69%); RETRACTABLE TECHNOLOGIES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NOVATION; PREMIER INC. 

TICKER: RVP (NYSE MKT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (69%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (54%) SIC2673 PLASTICS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



8 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
Plans for the Neglected East River Shoreline

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
EVEN if more innovative plans are drawn up for the World Trade Center site, only a fraction of Lower Manhattan will be directly affected. Redevelopment of ground zero alone will not shape downtown's future nor solve some of its chronic problems.
 Understanding that, the Alliance for Downtown New York and Community Board 1 have been quietly working on a different kind of plan -- a framework, really -- to guide future development along the perennially neglected East River shoreline, which today is more of a barrier than a waterfront. 
 While it is easy to wonder about the practicality of some suggestions, like turning part of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive into a promenade, the initiative is worth noting. If residents and businesses agree in advance on common goals, they are likely to be far more successful extracting amenities when developers and government agencies propose new projects, although nothing about the plan is guaranteed in advance. 
"It's a unified front," said Madelyn Wils, the chairwoman of the community board. "That's a spectacular notion, that we could go to the city and state and say, 'This is what we all want.' "
Waiting on the other side of the parking lots and loading zones under the brooding F.D.R. Drive viaduct are incomparable panoramas of the Brooklyn Bridge, briny breezes on the hottest days and, surprisingly, the calming rhythm of waves hitting riprap.
"Weaving the city to the water" is a goal of the $400 million East River plan, said one of its designers, Marilyn Jordan Taylor of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. That means adding ferry stops to draw more waterborne commuters and creating visual corridors from the financial district to the river.
This is not to happen in a single stroke but as opportunities arise. Because there is an overall framework, every desired amenity does not have to be piled onto a single development. "Doing it incrementally is one way to address the issue of resource constraints," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Downtown Alliance, which runs the Lower Manhattan Business Improvement District.
The message to builders, he said, would be: "This is good for the business community and good for the residential community. You're likely to have a relatively easy time of it as long as you're in accord with this blueprint."
The blueprint was actually laid down in the 18th century, when piers sprouted from the shoreline and any number of streets in Lower Manhattan ended at the water in the form of wide berths, or slips, whose names endure to this day as Peck Slip, Burling Slip, Old Slip and Coenties Slip.
"Rather than overwrite that, we wanted to work with the history," Ms. Taylor said. That led to the proposal that a new marina be created just north of Pier 17 at the South Street Seaport and that a new ferry landing be constructed next to the Whitehall terminal.
As for the slips and other east-west streets, the planners imagine them as landscaped urban "rooms," with trees and open space gained in some cases by narrowing the roadways, in other cases by eliminating parking spaces.
At a cost of about $35 million, the outer half of the F.D.R. Drive would be opened to pedestrians south of the Brooklyn Bridge. The inner half of the roadway would carry two-way traffic, separated from pedestrians by a landscaped median. This would not be a contemplative oasis, Ms. Taylor conceded, but would add open space along the water.
The most expensive recommendation, around $70 million, would be to relocate the Battery Park underpass ramp that now emerges between Whitehall and Broad Streets. Moving it one block north would create a plaza in front of the landmark Battery Maritime Building, which is to be redeveloped. No decision has been made on what will go there. 
The city transportation commissioner, Iris Weinshall, will not comment on the plans until she has reviewed them more closely, a spokesman said.
The Downtown Alliance financed the planning effort, which was managed by Ann Buttenwieser Consulting and involved Ken Greenberg of Greenberg Consultants, the engineering concern of Arup and the real estate consulting firm of Hamilton, Rabinovitz & Alschuler.
"We're very excited about their initiative," said Andrew M. Alper, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, who called it a "nice complement" to the anticipated redevelopment of Governors Island and the creation of a new Brooklyn Bridge Park across the East River.
Even in embryonic form, the waterfront plan may help shape the enormous Guggenheim Museum proposed for the piers between Old Slip and Maiden Lane.
Though well publicized, Frank Gehry's rendition of a cloudlike, titanium-clad building is still in the conceptual stage, said Laurie Beckelman, deputy director of the Guggenheim. The final design might incorporate a second-story connection to the F.D.R. Drive promenade and a view corridor along the axis of Wall Street, which bisects the Guggenheim site.
"If this is something helpful to think about, we're open to it," Ms. Beckelman said. "The community has to be our partner, big time. We're sincere about this. This is a collaboration."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The backers of development near the East River are hoping for unanimity on the proposals. An architectural rendering shows a cross section of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive with a proposed pedestrian promenade. (Skidmore, Owings & Merrill L.L.P., Greenberg Consultants Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINAS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



9 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: SENATE KILLS PLAN FOR DRUG BENEFITS THROUGH MEDICARE 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31 

 BODY:
The Senate today killed legislation to provide prescription drug benefits promised to the elderly by politicians of both parties. But it overwhelmingly passed a bill intended to give all Americans greater access to low-cost generic versions of brand-name medicines.
 Given the ideological divisions revealed in the Senate debate, lawmakers said the elderly might have to wait several years for Medicare coverage of the drugs they take for heart disease, stroke, arthritis and other ailments. The measure on generic medicines faces an uncertain future in the House. 
 Senators of both parties said they would have to answer to voters this fall for their failure to deliver Medicare drug benefits. Each party blamed the other today. 
"We go home empty-handed," said Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee. "Our seniors are the ones who lose."
Senator Zell Miller, Democrat of Georgia, said, "Both parties will pay a steep price at the polls."
The outcome appeared to be a major setback for Democrats, who control the Senate. Democrats had initially hoped to campaign as champions of Medicare drug benefits this fall, but they may have lost some of their historic advantage on the issue. The House, controlled by Republicans, passed a bill to provide Medicare drug benefits through private insurance companies last month.
Democrats vowed to keep fighting. "We will be back next month, next year and the year after -- as long as it takes until every senior citizen has the comprehensive benefit they deserve," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
The Senate is scheduled to begin its August recess on Friday. In more than two weeks of impassioned debate -- an extraordinary commitment of time on the Senate floor -- lawmakers rejected four separate proposals to provide coverage of prescription drugs under Medicare.
There was no consensus about how much to spend, how generous the benefits should be, or how to balance the roles of government and private industry in running the program. 
By a vote of 49 yeas to 50 nays, the Senate today defeated a proposal to provide drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries with low incomes or high drug costs. The proposal fell far short of the 60-vote majority needed to keep it alive under Senate budget rules.
Democrats had billed the proposal as a bipartisan compromise, a down payment on what was really needed. But it won support from only four Republicans: Susan Collins of Maine, Tim Hutchinson of Arkansas, Gordon H. Smith of Oregon and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. Five Democrats joined 44 Republicans and one independent in voting against the proposal. The five were John B. Breaux of Louisiana, Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, Tom Harkin of Iowa, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and Ben Nelson of Nebraska. 
Then, by a vote of 78 to 21, the Senate passed the generic drug bill, which would reduce the ability of brand-name drug companies to delay the approval and marketing of generic products.
Generic drugs are biologically and chemically equivalent to brand-name medicines, but usually cost much less, so sales of the brand-name drugs typically plummet after generic competitors enter the market.
The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the generic drug bill would reduce total spending on prescription drugs by $60 billion, or 1.3 percent, over the next 10 years. The bill had support from consumer groups, labor unions and many large corporations that pay for prescription drugs for their employees.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, the chief sponsor of the generic drug bill, said pharmaceutical companies had invented many wonder drugs, but he declared, "Their cost is so high that if you are not very wealthy or do not have a good medical plan, you cannot afford them."
Twenty-eight Republicans, 49 Democrats and one independent voted for the generic drug measure.
"The onus is now on the House to act in a similarly bipartisan way," Mr. Schumer said.
Alan F. Holmer, president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, who led lobbying against the generic drug bill, said it would not produce significant savings for consumers, but would discourage innovation by reducing the economic incentives for drug research.
House Republican leaders said they would consider taking up legislation on generic drugs after the August recess. There are no immediate plans for a conference committee to try to meld the House Medicare bill and the Senate generic drug bill.
Despite the stalemate on Medicare, Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, said: "I don't think this is a time to be cynical. It's a time for people to get engaged, to let members of Congress know how deeply they feel about the importance of getting some assistance with their escalating prescription drug costs."
Senate Democrats originally wanted to offer drug coverage to all 40 million Medicare beneficiaries, at a cost of $594 million over 10 years. After that proposal died last week, Democrats scaled back their demands. Under the $390 billion proposal rejected today, Medicare would have provided drug coverage to beneficiaries with drug costs of more than $3,300 a year or incomes of less than $17,720 a year for an individual and $23,880 for a couple.
The measure passed by the Senate includes two significant amendments. One would make it easier for pharmacists and drug wholesalers to import prescription drugs from Canada, where drug prices are often lower because of government regulation. The other would allow states to use the purchasing power of their Medicaid programs to negotiate drug discounts for millions of people who are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid.
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said, "American consumers pay the highest prices in the world for prescription medicines" and could save millions of dollars by importing drugs from Canada.
The Bush administration opposed relaxation of import rules, saying it could expose consumers to unsafe, counterfeit or contaminated drugs. 
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois portrayed Senate Democratic leaders as obstructionists. "The Senate has again let down senior citizens in their time of need," Mr. Hastert said. "While the Republican-led House got the job done weeks ago, the Democrat-led Senate didn't."
But the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said Republicans had blocked the latest Medicare proposal at the behest of special interests. "The drug companies told them they shouldn't vote for it," Mr. Daschle said.
The issue of drug costs will reverberate in election campaigns and in the halls of Congress for the rest of the year.
Several House members, including Representative John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, have introduced legislation like the generic drug bill passed by the Senate. Lobbyists for brand-name drug companies said they would make herculean efforts to keep those bills off the House floor, but Democrats said they would try to force a vote.
Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was an author of the generic drug bill, said brand-name drug makers had exploited loopholes in existing law to delay the marketing of generic products.
Under current law, a maker of brand-name drugs can often get a 30-month delay in federal approval of generic drugs by filing a lawsuit that alleges infringement of its patents. Some companies have delayed generic competition for years by repeatedly filing new patent claims for brand-name drugs already on the market.
Mr. Schumer said that some brand-name companies had blocked generic competition by claiming patent protection for incidental features of their products, like the brown bottle in which a medicine is packaged.
The bill passed today would allow only one 30-month delay for each drug product. In addition, it would outlaw collusive agreements under which brand-name drug companies pay generic companies to keep generic products off the market.
The collapse of Medicare legislation in the Senate was a personal and political defeat for Senator Daschle. He brought the legislation to the Senate floor on July 15, but never articulated a strategy for passing Medicare drug benefits.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about a Senate vote against coverage of prescription drugs for some Medicare patients misstated the 10-year cost of the Senate Democrats' initial plan to cover all 40 million of them. The amount was $594 billion, not million.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Don Nickles of Oklahoma, left, Trent Lott of Mississippi and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, all Republicans, yesterday after the Senate killed legislation to provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A19) Chart: "UP CLOSE: Drug Bill Goals"Major provisions of a prescription drug bill passed by the Senate yesterday: Low-cost generic versions of brand-name drugs would come onto the market faster. Pharmacists and wholesalers could import often cheaper prescription drugs from Canada. States could use the purchasing power of their Medicaid programs to negotiate drug discounts for people not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid. Federal government would provide $9 billion in fiscal relief to states for Medicaid and social service programs. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AGING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); BUDGETS (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (65%); STROKES (56%); INSURANCE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GORDON SMITH (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); TOM HARKIN (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); RICK SANTORUM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



10 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
I.B.M. Opening A $2.5 Billion Specialized Chip Plant

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: EAST FISHKILL, N.Y., July 31 

 BODY:
I.B.M. opened a sprawling and sophisticated new semiconductor factory here today that cost more than $2.5 billion to build and equip, the largest single capital investment the company has ever made.
 The factory, which opens as the computer chip business is in a slump, is a costly and risky move for I.B.M. But it is also an expression of confidence by the company that it can remain a technology leader in the highly competitive global semiconductor industry, and a commitment that the best place to execute that strategy is in the Hudson River Valley of New York. 
 I.B.M. is an exception among computer makers in that it still invests heavily in research to advance the design, manufacture and materials used in semiconductor chips. It is spending more than $500 million a year on semiconductor research and development. 
The factory will produce a wide range of specialized semiconductors used in everything from the largest mainframe computers to cellphones and video-game consoles.
The new plant is part of I.B.M.'s push to gain a strong lead in chip making beyond the personal computer business, where Intel and East Asian chip producers hold the advantage.
"The core of our strategy is to lead in technology and attack the high-performance segments of the market," said John Kelly, senior vice president in change of I.B.M.'s technology group.
An advantage to having the semiconductor fabricating factory here, some 60 miles north of Manhattan, Mr. Kelly explained, is that it is situated very close to its research laboratories in nearby Westchester County. To stay ahead in advanced chip technology, he said, moving innovations out of the labs and into the factory as fast as possible is crucial.
"What we call the lab-to-fab time should be as close to zero as possible," Mr. Kelly said. "If our strategy were anything but to be on the leading edge, we'd have put the plant in Asia."
The new factory, which will begin normal production early next year, will employ about 1,000 people. In remarks during a ribbon-cutting ceremony today, Gov. George E. Pataki said he also expected the installation to generate thousands of additional jobs in the Hudson Valley area for contractors and suppliers catering to the factory. He praised I.B.M. for being "a critical partner in our economic development efforts" in New York State.
In a brief speech, Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, emphasized that it was important to make long-term investments despite the current slump in the technology business. "To play to win in technology, you innovate and you lead," he said.
But manufacturing technology products is a costly and cyclical business. In June, I.B.M. announced that it was taking a charge of more than $2 billion against earnings. The biggest reasons were the cost of getting out of the business of manufacturing hard disks for storage, which it sold to Hitachi, and shutting down some of its older semiconductor operations.
Mr. Kelly said that the demand for advanced chips, like those produced at I.B.M.'s installation in Burlington, Vt., is strong. "I need more capacity in that end of the market," he said, "and this is factory is critical to meeting that growing demand."
If I.B.M. has miscalculated the demand, it will suffer badly as both the high operating costs and depreciation on the huge capital investment for the East Fishkill factory drag down earnings.
But industry analysts said that the plant is likely to be insulated from a fall-off in one or a few segments of the semiconductor market. It is highly automated and designed to shift flexibly to produce many different kinds of chips to suit demand. "The diversity is the big difference with this plant," said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a research firm. "It gives I.B.M. the capability to make so many different kinds of custom chips, and the world is going to custom chips."
The 140,000-square-foot plant is a testament to advanced manufacturing technology. The 300-millimeter silicon wafers -- about the size of a regular pizza -- are shuttled around in enclosed plastic pods, which ride on overhead tracks. They drop down from wires automatically into machines, sheathed in stainless steel and glass, for each stage of processing and fabrication.
Throughout the 500 processing steps, which typically last 20 days, the wafers are not touched by human hands. The circuits etched into the chips are less than one-thousandth the width of a human hair.
Human operators are there to monitor the systems, catch errors and fine-tune the production process for greatest efficiency. Because each of the hundreds of processing machines is self-enclosed, and essentially airtight, the uniforms that operators wear are less constricting than in the previous generation of chip plants, where they looked like space suits.
The operators at the East Fishkill factory wear light nylon uniforms, light blue shoe covering and translucent hairnets made of paper. They look more like workers in a bakery.
Yes, said Richard Brilla, director of the new plant, "but the doughnuts are a lot more costly here." Each wafer, holding hundreds of chips, is worth $6,000 to $10,000 apiece, depending on what insulation, circuitry and materials are used.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of I.B.M.'s new semiconductor factory in East Fishkill, N.Y. Much of the work is automated, and human operators catch errors and fine-tune production. (Bruce Baccaro/I.B.M.)(pg. C1); At ribbon-cutting ceremony in East Fishkill, N.Y., yesterday, from left, John Kelly, senior vice president in charge of I.B.M. technology group; Gov. George E. Pataki; and Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M. chief executive. (Tom Way/I.B.M.)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); TEST LABORATORIES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (53%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



11 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Inquiry Alters Senate Race
The New Jersey Senate race that began with Senator Robert G. Torricelli as a favorite has suddenly become a free-for-all. PAGE B1

Economy Slows Sharply
The Commerce Department estimated that economic growth slowed sharply from April through June. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

In the N.F.L., XXXXXL Is In
As the N.F.L. seeks supersized linemen weighing over 300 pounds, players are under pressure to add weight despite health risks. PAGE D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (84%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



12 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: New Report Shows U.S. Economy Slowed Significantly for Quarter 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The Commerce Department estimated yesterday that economic growth slowed sharply in the recent quarter from April through June and reported that last year's recession was both longer and deeper than originally thought.
With consumers becoming more cautious, state governments cutting spending and the trade deficit widening, the economy expanded at an annual rate of just 1.1 percent in the second quarter, down from 5 percent the first three months of the year.
 "The economy is on a much weaker foundation than thought," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm in West Chester, Pa. Growth, he added, has come "to a virtual standstill." 
 The growth spurt after Sept. 11, which ended last year's recession, appears to have faded, leaving the economy vulnerable to a new downturn if oil prices rise, stocks fall further or another surprise causes consumers to cut their spending, economists said. Absent such a shock, however, the economy is likely to improve gradually this year, helped by a mild recovery in business investment that continued last quarter.
As part of its regular revisions, the Commerce Department said that new data showed that the economy shrank throughout the first three quarters of 2001, rather than only in the summer period. Some analysts define a recession as two consecutive quarters of contraction, and last year's downturn, which the official arbiters at the National Bureau of Economic Research dated as beginning in March, now qualifies under that standard, too. (The experts have not yet identified an official ending to the recession, but most economists believe a rebound began sometime around the end of last year or the beginning of this one.)
By showing that the recession clearly preceded the Sept. 11 attacks, the revisions could take some of the shine off of the economic reputations of Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and former President Bill Clinton. 
Growth slowed to a crawl in Mr. Clinton's final six months in office, and the long expansion did not even stretch into the first quarter of 2001, when he left office. Throughout last spring, meanwhile, Mr. Greenspan suggested that the country could avoid recession even though it is now clear that one had already begun. He has said more recently that the attacks might have caused the recession.
Speaking to reporters at a meeting with his cabinet, President Bush said yesterday that the economy has now grown for three straight quarters, after having shrunk during the previous three.
"I'm very optimistic," Mr. Bush said. "The facts are that inflation is low, interest rates are low, productivity is high."
Yesterday's meager growth numbers surprised many economists, and the stock market fell after the release of the economic report before recovering, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closing at 911.62, up almost 1 percent. A survey of manufacturing executives added to economic worries by suggesting that both production and new orders slumped in July.
Analysts still expect the Fed to keep its benchmark interest rate at its current low level in coming months to encourage spending, but few predict further cuts. Unemployment is likely to continuing rising this year, although not sharply, economists said.
The most troubling sign in the Commerce Department's report may have been a further spending slowdown by consumers. For much of the last two years, Americans increased their spending at a healthy clip even as stocks were falling and businesses were sharply reducing their investments.
In the second quarter, however, consumer spending grew at an annual rate of only 1.9 percent, adjusted for inflation and normal seasonal variations, down from 3.1 percent in the first quarter and 6 percent at the end of last year.
In fact, the total value of American goods and services sold in the second quarter actually declined slightly. The economy grew because companies increased production in order to keep their inventory levels essentially flat, after more than a year of cutting their stockpiles.
For the economy to improve, consumers will have to increase their spending in future months and buy more of those stockpiled goods. The decline in the stock market may give them pause, but the return of zero-percent financing by automakers and still-low mortgage rates should help lift spending, economists said.
State and local governments also stopped expanding this spring, after having used tax revenues from the long expansion to grow rapidly in the late 1990's. Now governors and legislatures are cutting the budgets of schools, hospitals and road-building programs, among other things, to make sure they keep their budgets in balance.
Federal spending increased 7.4 percent during the second quarter, partly because of new military programs and other responses to Sept. 11.
Businesses reduced their spending for the seventh consecutive quarter, breaking the record for the longest such streak since the Commerce Department began keeping records in 1947. Companies are still trying to recover from an investment binge in the 1990's, fed by the easy credit of a bull market, that has left them with far more capacity than they can profitably use.
But the spending drop was only 1.6 percent, the smallest since the declines began in late 2000. While the building of new factories and other structures dropped markedly, spending on equipment and software rose 2.9 percent, its first increase in almost two years.
"Technology is improving so rapidly that businesses, even with low capacity utilization, are finding it necessary to add equipment," said Brian S. Wesbury, chief economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, a brokerage firm in Chicago. "That's good news."
A large jump in imports, which reduced growth by statistically replacing American-made products, also gave economists room for optimism. Some said companies essentially hoarded goods to prepare for the possibility of a strike by dock workers on the West Coast and that imports should slow in the future.
Yesterday's revisions indicated the economy began to weaken significantly in 2000, as the stock bubble started deflating and companies realized many of their forecasts were too rosy. The government's broadest measure of corporate profits fell 2.2 percent in 2000, rather than having risen 6.2 percent, as reported earlier.
Significantly, productivity -- the amount that the average worker produces in an hour -- now appears to have increased less between the middle of 2000 and the start of this year than government estimates had initially shown. The gains of the last two years now seem closer to the paltry increases of the 1970's, 1980's and early 1990's than to the rapid gains of late 1990's, said Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University.
If the economic boom and the stock-market bubble were the main causes of the productivity spurt, instead of new technology and business strategies, the country's long-term economic outlook would worsen somewhat.
With more refined data, the Commerce Department said that in the first three quarters of last year, the economy shrank 0.6 percent, 1.6 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively.
"Many people thought that we could have avoided a recession without 9/11," said Mr. Wesbury, one of the few forecasters to have predicted a recession early last year. "This puts the lie to that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nissan automobiles being unloaded at a dock at Port Elizabeth, N.J., last month, top, and a shop at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., above. A new government report shows the economy remains vulnerable to a new downturn if there is an oil shock or other surprise. (Mark Erickson/Getty Images); (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "Putting On the Brakes"Overall economic output stalled last quarter, with growth held to a bare 1 percent rate by a slowdown in government purchases and more cautious consumer spending. But investment in business equipment increased, holding out some promise for the future. Graphs track Gross Domestic Product, government purchases, personal consumption, and equipment and software investment figures from 1999 through 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracks rate of change from 1998 through 2002. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C7) Chart: "Economic Growth Is Uneven, Sluggish in Some Regions"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve Boards 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis: Growth was reported in consumer spending, residential construction, manufacturing and tourism. Chicago: A slow recovery was reported. Consumer spending was mixed and manufacturing was uneven across industries. Cleveland: Shipping activity continued to increase. Reports of expansion in manufacturing have increased and retail sales improved. Boston: Manufacturing was mixed, and retailers were less upbeat than in April or May. Residential real estate was still strong. New York: The economy eased off, with renewed weakness in commercial real estate and employment. Philadelphia: The economy edged up in July, with manufacturers reporting increased shipments and orders. Auto sales improved. Richmond, Va.: Home sales were strong, and retail sales improved. Manufacturing grew at a slower pace. Atlanta: The economy remained sluggish. Sales were disappointing and manufacturers reported lackluster new orders. St. Louis: Commercial real estate was weak, but the economy continued to improve. Manufacturers plan to expand production. Kansas City, Mo.: Residential real estate led the improving economy. Manufacturing improved and retail sales were steady. Dallas: The economy grew slowly in June and early July. Businesses were concerned about the stock market, corporate scandals and terrorism. San Francisco: The economy expanded at a moderate pace. Housing prices continued to increase, while consumer prices remained tame. (Source: Bloomberg News)(pg. C7) Map of United States, includes Alaska and Hawaii, highlights states mentioned. (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); TERRORISM (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (57%); PRICE INCREASES (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



13 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: McCall Criticizes Cuomo's Plans to Use His Father's Help in the Campaign 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo landed squarely in the thick of the Democratic primary for governor yesterday as State Comptroller H. Carl McCall suggested that his opponent, Andrew M. Cuomo, had to "run home for dad" for support.
 "If you were out in the street, in a battle, and you were kind of losing, you might run home for dad," Mr. McCall said of Andrew Cuomo, igniting a tit-for-tat among the campaigns that suggested the former governor might loom large in the race. 
 Mr. McCall's remark came a day after the Cuomo campaign confirmed that the former governor would campaign for his son, making speeches, visiting churches and community centers and perhaps filming a commercial.
A spokeswoman for the former governor said he was unavailable to comment.
But political analysts had plenty to say about the former governor's entrance into the race, with the prevailing notion that he presents a double-edged sword to Andrew Cuomo.
Until now, Andrew Cuomo had gone to some lengths to ensure that the former governor kept a low-profile in the campaign so that "in no way can this look like the fourth term of Mario Cuomo," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Institute for Public Opinion at Marist College.
Mario Cuomo is, in most polls, popular among hard-core Democrats. But when he lost to Gov. George E. Pataki in upstate New York, it was in no small part because he was blamed by many voters for the economic problems there. 
"The problem for Andrew is that Mario overstayed his welcome and his popularity in Erie went down the toilet that last term," said Gerald A. Goldhaber, an independent pollster in Buffalo. "The trouble for Andrew is that his whole image and charisma reminds people of Mario."
Other analysts said that while the former governor could give a boost to his son in the primary, it could severely damage him in a race against Governor Pataki, whose campaign aides declined to comment yesterday on the former governor.
"Clearly among Democratic primary voters, Mario is popular but less so among independents and Republicans," Mr. Miringoff said.
Andrew Cuomo seemed to make the most of Mr. McCall's remark, casting it as a pattern of personal attacks from the McCall campaign and asserting that the comptroller had the former governor to thank for his job.
It was "also nice to have a governor," Mr. Cuomo said, who "fought very hard to appoint you as comptroller of the state of New York. In politics, people often have short memories."
Mr. Cuomo was referring to Mr. McCall's appointment as comptroller in 1993 after the resignation of Edward V. Regan. While the appointment was made by the Legislature, Mr. Cuomo's camp says the former governor influenced legislative leaders to pick Mr. McCall. McCall partisans dispute this.
"It's one thing, you want to attack me," Andrew Cuomo said. "I'm silly enough to run for office and expose myself to this." He added that even "by the normal New York standards, attacking my father, attacking my wife is going too far."
He was referring to comments made months ago by Representative Charles B. Rangel, a McCall supporter, who suggested that Kerry Kennedy Cuomo, Andrew Cuomo's wife, was not as prominent as other family members.
Mr. McCall's aides denied that their side had attacked the Cuomos and tried to play down the comptroller's comment, saying it came after he had given several noncommital responses about the elder Cuomo. But the day before, Mr. McCall's campaign criticized Mario Cuomo for missing a deadline to file a report about his political action committee and called it a slush fund.
Both Democratic candidates did have an issue-based campaign theme for the day -- Mr. Cuomo again calling for corporate accountability and tougher penalties in New York State for corporate abuses, and Mr. McCall calling for recruiting 10,000 new public school teachers a year by creating a program that would subsidize graduate teaching degrees in exchange for five-year teaching commitments.
Meanwhile, the campaign of B. Thomas Golisano, the billionaire entrepreneur who is seeking a ballot line on which to run for governor, suffered a blow yesterday when the New York City Board of Elections said it was investigating a claim that Mr. Golisano's candidate for lieutenant governor had registered and voted twice last year.
A Board of Elections official said that an early review indicated that the candidate, Dan Mahony, a New York financial adviser who is seeking to run on the Conservative Party line, had apparently registered to vote using two addresses.
The board's investigation was the result of an article in The New York Post yesterday that said Mr. Mahony might have registered using an altered birth date and address, while retaining his registration at an old address.
Mr. Mahony did not respond to a telephone message left at his home. But Erick Mullen, a spokesman for the Golisano campaign, said Mr. Golisano had full confidence in Mr. Mahony and that the charges were the result of Governor Pataki's efforts to discredit Mr. Golisano.
"We're confident that this is part and parcel of a dirty tricks campaign," Mr. Mullen said. "George Pataki is terrified of the polling booth. But this election will not be decided in the courtrooms or in the political back rooms. We're confident that Dan Mahony will prevail." 
Mollie Fullington, the governor's campaign spokeswoman, said of the voting claims, "These are serious allegations and they should be investigated." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



14 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: AT LEAST 7 KILLED AS MILITANTS BOMB JERUSALEM CAMPUS 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET and JOHN KIFNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 31 

 BODY:
A powerful bomb hidden in a bag and left on a table by Palestinian militants tore apart a bustling cafeteria during lunch at Hebrew University here today, killing seven people, including at least three Americans, and wounding more than 80.
 Through a bedlam of screams and crashing glass, students fled in horror from the cafeteria, in the Frank Sinatra Student Center, some trailing blood onto the concrete courtyard of Nancy Reagan Plaza. 
 Because of the campus' diverse student body -- it is one of the few enclaves here where Israeli Jews and Israeli Arabs still mix -- students said they had felt safe, even as new violence threatened the city this week. Arab students were among the wounded, hospital officials said, as were foreign students.
In Washington, the State Department reported the deaths of the three Americans, two women and one man. One victim, Janis Ruth Coulter of New York City, was identified tonight by the American Friends of Hebrew University. 
The State Department declined to identify the American victims further as consular officials worked to notify relatives.
An administration official said there might be more Americans among the dead. He gave no further details, except to say that the identification process was continuing. The Israeli consul in Boston, Hillel Newman, told The Boston Globe last night that four Americans had been killed in the attack.
Philip Reeker, a department spokesman, called the attack "absolutely tragic and outrageous."
President Bush condemned the bombing and said it was perpetrated by "killers who hate the thought of peace and therefore are willing to take their hatred to all kinds of places, including a university." 
The bombing at the campus, on Mount Scopus, was the second in two days in Jerusalem. The Islamist group Hamas claimed responsibility for the bombing, saying that it acted in retaliation for Israel's killing last week of a top Hamas leader. Fourteen others, including nine children, died in that attack, in which Israel bombed a house in Gaza City. 
Spencer Dew, 26, a divinity student from the University of Chicago studying here for the summer, was eating on the patio when he heard the blast, then smelled gunpowder. Lacerated by flying glass, he joined the fleeing crowd, then returned for a notebook, which had also been pierced by glass. 
"I know there are justifications -- bad justifications," he said of the political violence, his shirt spotted crimson and his khaki pants torn as he left a hospital here. "It's killing college students. That's no political solution for anything. It's killing college kids." 
As emergency workers cleared the site, Abeer Salman, 19, a student from the Arab village of Beit Safafa, sat on the plaza steps, stunned.
"I was across the plaza," she said. "My friend wanted to get something to drink. After two minutes we heard a blast, and we can't find her."
The campus is fenced, and guards check the bags of those who enter. But some students complained that the security was porous. An investigation by a campus paper in January warned that a cafeteria would be an appealing, accessible target. 
"The security tries to do their best," said Kobi Cohen, the student union president."But there are a lot of holes in the fence. A lot of guards don't check the bags well."
Mr. Cohen, who helped evacuate the wounded, said, "We always believed that because there are Arab students here and Arab workers, nobody will try to hurt us here." 
The attack was unusual in that it appeared not to be the work of a suicide bomber. Police officials said initial investigation suggested that the bomb was hidden in a bag. 
Israeli officials said the attack fit a Palestinian strategy of killing civilians. "This is a continuous effort by the Palestinians to kill as many Israelis as possible in order to sabotage the peace process," said Gideon Meir, a senior Foreign Ministry official. "It has nothing to do with what happened in Gaza City a week ago."
The Palestinian Authority, led by Yasir Arafat, issued a statement saying that it "absolutely condemns the attack against Hebrew University" but adding that it blamed Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, for provoking violence.
After back-to-back bombings killed 26 people here more than a month ago, Israel began a ground offensive in the West Bank to suppress Palestinian violence. 
But Palestinian militants vowed retaliation after the bombing last week. After five people were injured in the suicide bombing here on Tuesday, Mr. Sharon met senior security advisers before today's attack to discuss ways of coping with suicide bombers, and the group endorsed the idea of deporting members of the killers' families. Tonight, Israeli military officials convened to consider possible retaliation. 
Ron Krumer, a spokesman for the Hadassah Medical Center, where some of the wounded were taken, said the victims suffered "penetrating injuries, with lots of metal elements, such as bolts and screws and nails, all over their bodies."
The bomb sprayed blood across the ceiling tiles, tore apart wooden chairs and scattered the antique radios decorating the cafeteria. A large jar of pickled radishes sat unbroken on one counter, as an officer a few feet away used large tweezers to pick evidence out of a pool of blood. 
Students jotted down lists of friends and frantically dialed their cellphones, checking off the names of those who responded. Others called home to say they were all right. 
"I got delayed; I'm the luckiest man in the world," Allistaire Goldrein, 19, of Liverpool, England, told his worried father, calling from England. Mr. Goldrein said he ate in the cafeteria every day and was delayed today by another student.
"I was coming around the corner and suddenly there was this huge explosion," he said. "I can't describe it -- huge. The very foundation of the stone structure was shaken."
Mr. Goldrein said he raced inside. "It was carnage in there," he said. "Carnage, anarchy. It was disgusting. I saw dead people. I saw people with no heads. There was a guy, I gave him mouth to mouth, but he was dead."
Just outside the campus this afternoon, the police detained scores of Arab men, including some who appeared to be students, keeping them standing in the sun for several hours as they searched for suspects.
Representatives of an anti-Palestinian faction arrived at the blast site and unfurled a banner declaring, "It's them or us" and "Expel the Arab enemy." Dror Lederman, 26, a student of economics and accounting, angrily accosted one man. "Get out of here," he said. "You come every time. You come to dance on the blood."
Students watched in shock as emergency workers carried their peers away on orange stretchers, through an area where graduation ceremonies are held. "I was standing in the Forum and watching them bring people on stretchers, and I saw blood and shoes and I.V.'s on the ground," said Sophia Aron, 19, of Los Angeles, a student from the University of California, Davis, who is studying here for a year. "Right in the Forum. It freaks me out. But I'm not leaving."
Dr. Mahmoud al-Zahar, a political leader of Hamas, blamed Israel for the attack. "Such operations will continue until the elimination of the occupation," he said. Hamas leaders consider all of Israel to be occupied territory, not just the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, which Israel occupied in 1967.
Shlomo Avineri, a political science professor at the university, said: "This is beyond the pale, to attack a university, and it shows what the war is about. It's not about the settlements. It's not about occupation. It's about the very existence of a Jewish population in this country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Medics helped victims of a bomb blast yesterday at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Arab students were among the 80 wounded, officials said. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Two students comforted each other, left, and two victims received assistance yesterday after a bombing at a popular cafeteria on the campus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem. (Associated Press); (Reuters); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A12) Map of Israel highlighting Jerusalem and the site of the bombing. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HAMAS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); HOSPITALS (69%); POLITICS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



15 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Handling of Penny Stock Plan Is Under Inquiry in Hong Kong 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 31 

 BODY:
A precipitous plunge in penny stocks here last Friday, prompted by a proposal to delist some of the lowest-priced stocks, provoked a series of moves today by regulators and market administrators as investors continued to complain bitterly.
 Antony Leung, the financial secretary and third-ranking government official here, announced that a two-member panel would investigate how the stock exchange and regulators had handled the drafting and release of the proposal. The Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong said today that it was investigating whether markets were illegally manipulated on Friday. 
 The chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, the for-profit company that operates the stock exchange, apologized at a legislative hearing today. "I send my heartfelt apologies to shareholders who have suffered as a result of the market's response to some of the proposals in our consultation paper," the executive, Kwong Ki-chi, said. 
The plunge last week erased $1.3 billion in value from penny stocks here. The stock exchange withdrew its delisting proposal on Sunday and said that it would issue a new proposal in October and give the public three months starting then to comment on it. But many penny stocks have still not fully recovered.
The stock exchange had proposed to delist -- permanently remove from trading on the exchange -- the stocks of companies with share prices that stayed below 50 Hong Kong cents (6.4 American cents) for 30 consecutive trading days.
Also to be delisted were the stocks of companies that lost money for three consecutive years and had a market capitalization of less than 50 million Hong Kong dollars ($6.4 million) for 30 consecutive trading days.
Delisting requirements are found on most large stock exchanges, including stock exchanges in the United States. The stock exchange's proposal to introduce such rules here highlighted the extraordinary number of nearly worthless shares of money-losing companies that are still traded in Hong Kong.
The Securities and Futures Commission, a regulatory agency here, released a separate report last Thursday that calculated that 72.9 percent of the stocks traded in Hong Kong have share prices of less than 20 American cents.
Mr. Kwong, the stock exchange chief executive, and other officials said today that many companies should have been able to meet the withdrawn proposal on share-price minimums by consolidating their shares. One way to do this would be through reverse stock splits.
Few companies would actually have been delisted if the original proposal had gone ahead, he added.
But he also acknowledged that Hong Kong, unlike many other countries with important financial markets, does not have an equivalent of the "bulletin board" or "pink sheet" trading of penny stocks in the United States that have been delisted from the major exchanges. 
Very low share prices are more profitable for brokers because the spread between the bid and offer prices is frequently a tenth of a cent here, and that is a larger percentage of the price of a very cheap stock.
In his testimony, Mr. Kwong emphasized that the exchange had been publicly discussing various versions of delisting requirements for a full year, and expressed surprise that the publication of the proposal last Thursday had provoked such a strong market response.
Citing market sources, The South China Morning Post reported today that "a group of brokers met on Thursday night and decided to sell certain penny stocks in a bid to create panic and incite retail investors to follow." The purpose of the selling was to stop the delisting, said the newspaper, which was also the first to report that the securities commission here was investigating.
David Webb, the editor of a nonprofit Internet site, Webb-site.com, that covers corporate governance and economic issues in Hong Kong, said that the controversy put Mr. Kwong's company in an especially awkward position. As a for-profit company, it stands to benefit financially from a thinning of the ranks of very small companies on the stock exchange, because these companies' listings require a lot of paperwork but generate limited trading.
"I don't think they can choose to service only the most profitable companies," he said.
Some brokers have called for Mr. Kwong's immediate resignation, but Mr. Leung warned against any action now and said that the panel of inquiry should be allowed to investigate and file its report, due by Sept. 10. Emily Lau, a senior opposition lawmaker, agreed that no immediate action should be taken.
The government appoints 8 of the 15 directors of the company as well as the chief executive; Mr. Kwong is a former civil servant. The government merged the territory's stock exchange, which used to be owned by its members, with the futures market here and then listed it on the stock exchange in 1999.
The two members of the panel of inquiry are Robert Kotewall, a prominent lawyer in private practice here and former member of various governance and advisory bodies on financial services issues, and Gordon C. K. Kwong, a shipping executive and former chairman of the Hong Kong stock exchange's listing committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELISTINGS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK SPLITS (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) HONG KONG; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: HONG KONG EXCHANGES & CLEARING LTD (57%)

TICKER: 0388 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



16 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Bush Criticized by Lawmakers on CorporateGovernance 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31 

 BODY:
Less than 24 hours after a grand display of bipartisanship at a White House ceremony celebrating President Bush's signature on a major corporate-fraud bill, lawmakers today criticized Mr. Bush for what they called an abrupt watering down of the legislation. The Democrats also raised questions about an offshore subsidiary of the Harken Energy Corporation formed when Mr. Bush was on the company's board.
 The criticisms signaled that the Democrats planned to continue using the nation's corporate scandals as a political weapon against the president, who remains personally popular even as voters express serious worries about the economy and the rocky stock market. 
 Mr. Bush, for his part, tried to restore consumer confidence in the face of new government statistics showing that the economy cooled off sharply in the second quarter.
"We're heading in the right direction," Mr. Bush said, putting an unusually sunny interpretation on a Commerce Department report that the nation's gross domestic product grew by 1.1 percent from April through June, down from 5 percent in the first three months of the year.
As Mr. Bush was speaking, Democrats were rapidly maneuvering away from the cheerful tableau of unity that the White House had created in the East Room on Tuesday, when Democrats and Republicans stood behind the president and applauded him as he signed the bill, initially resisted by the White House, that cracks down on corporate fraud and the accounting profession.
Today, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, was joined by a Republican colleague, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, in criticizing the president for what they said was a weakening of a provision designed to protect corporate whistle-blowers. The two senators wrote the provision.
A statement interpreting the provision was released by the White House only hours after the bill was signed. The statement said that the administration would provide federal job protection to employees who cooperate with an investigation authorized by the House or the Senate, but made no mention of protection for employees who might speak more informally to a single member of the House or Senate.
In a letter to the president today, Mr. Leahy and Mr. Grassley called the interpretation narrow and said it was "at odds with the plain language of the statute and risks chilling corporate whistle-blowers who wish to report securities fraud" to individual members of Congress.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader who had been the first to shake the president's hand after the bill signing, joined in with his colleagues.
"I can't believe that before the ink is even dry, the White House would be acting to diminish its strength and power," Mr. Daschle said at a Capitol Hill news conference. "It does cause me to question how serious this administration is with regard to corporate responsibility."
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, responded that administration lawyers had determined that they needed to clarify the provision and that it was up to Congress to determine through its own rules who got protection. "Congress has that authority if they so choose it," Mr. Fleischer said.
Mr. Daschle and other Democrats also seized on a report in The Daily News of New York about a Cayman Islands subsidiary created by Harken when Mr. Bush was on its board. Mr. Daschle said it was possible that the subsidiary was similar to the kind of tax shelter that Republicans and White House officials have recently criticized, an assertion disputed by Mr. Fleischer.
Mr. Bush, when asked today about the subsidiary, suggested that its purpose was not to avoid taxes. "I think we ought to look at people who are trying to avoid U.S. taxes as a problem," Mr. Bush said to reporters this morning. "I think American companies ought to pay taxes here, and be a part -- good citizens."
Democrats also sought, with questionable success, to focus attention on Vice President Dick Cheney's handling of tax issues during his business career. On Capitol Hill, they circulated a report from Citizen Works, a group founded by Ralph Nader, saying that the Halliburton Company had not paid taxes in five of the six years that Mr. Cheney was its chief executive. The report also said that Halliburton had increased, to 44 from 9, the number of subsidiaries in offshore tax havens. Mr. Cheney's office referred questions about the matter to Halliburton.
But Halliburton said tonight that Citizen Works had confused the company's tax refunds with its liabilities, and that it had paid taxes in five of the six years. "They have the numbers backwards," said Wendy Hall, a spokeswoman for Halliburton.
Ms. Hall said the increase in offshore subsidiaries stemmed largely from acquisitions, including Halliburton's 1998 combination with Dresser Industries. In any case, she said, Halliburton had never used offshore subsidiaries to shelter income earned in the United States, the practice that has been drawing political heat in Washington.
"Halliburton does not shift income from the U.S. to foreign subsidiaries to avoid U.S. taxes," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); MISAPPROPRIATION (73%); SCANDALS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (70%); STATISTICS (69%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); EMPLOYMENT (62%) FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION 

COMPANY: HKN INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%) HARKEN ENERGY CORP (HEC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



17 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

University Attack Kills 7 Including 3 Americans
A powerful bomb hidden in a bag and left on a table by Palestinian militants tore apart a bustling cafeteria during lunch at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, killing at least seven people, including three Americans, and wounding more than 80. The Islamist group Hamas claimed responsibility for the bombing, saying that it acted in retaliation for Israel's killing last week of a top Hamas leader. A1

Clerk Kills 8 in Beirut
An Education Ministry clerk opened fire at colleagues with an assault rifle and two pistols, killing eight people and wounding five before he was arrested by the police. Officials said a financial dispute was behind the shootings. A10

High Risks for Iraq Invasion
In the first public hearings on the Bush administration's goal of ousting Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, an array of experts warned a Senate committee that an invasion of Iraq would carry significant risks including more terrorist attacks against American targets. A3

Canonization in Mexico City
Pope John Paul II canonized Juan Diego, an Indian convert to Catholicism in the 16th century, in a lavishly staged mass at the Basilica of Guadalupe. The pope called the canonization "the gift of the first indigenous saint of the American continent," and described Juan Diego as an important force behind the spread of Catholicism among the region's Indians. A10

Koreans Reject Appointment
The National Assembly overwhelmingly rejected President Kim Dae Jung's choice for prime minister, Chang Sang -- the first woman ever appointed. A5

Tuna Worries in Philippines
A last-minute compromise by Congress on tuna tariffs has done little to appease officials in the Philippines, who are concerned that the legislation could hurt their country's huge tuna industry. They are likely to protest to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell when he visits Manila this weekend. A12

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A16-23

Senate Rejects Drug Plan For Elderly Patients
The Senate defeated legislation to provide prescription drug benefits promised to the elderly by politicians of both parties. But it passed a bill intended to give all Americans greater access to low-cost generic versions of brand-name medicines. A1

Two Men Slain After Car Wreck
Police held a suspect in the deaths of two men who were dragged from a van and beaten to death with stones and bricks after a traffic accident in Chicago. Their vehicle had veered from the street and struck three young women who were sitting on a stoop. A16

New Wiretap Standards Backed
At a Congressional hearing, lawyers for the Justice Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency expressed support for legislation that would lower the standards of evidence required to obtain court approval for secret wiretaps for use in investigations of foreign terrorists and spies. A20

Stretching the Superfund
Nikki L. Tinsley, the inspector general of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that insufficient spending in the Superfund program was causing delays in cleaning up toxic waste sites and preventing "important work needed to protect human health and the environment." The financing shortfalls will mean, for example, stretching out to 10 years from five years a $100 million allocation to clean up a site. A23

Art Heist in West Hollywood
A pair of Maxfield Parrish murals, valued at between $1.7 million and $2.5 million each, were stolen from an art gallery in West Hollywood, Calif. One or more thieves made a hole in the ceiling, disabled its alarm and cut the murals from massive oak frames sometime between sundown Sunday and the opening of the gallery Monday morning. A16

Suspected Forger Flees
Mohamed El-Atriss, the suspected leader of a fake document ring who sold false identifications to two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, disappeared early this week as detectives were making final plans to arrest him, the authorities said. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

After Senate Ruling Torricelli Foe Gains Ground
A day after Democratic Senator Robert G. Torricelli was "severely admonished" by the Senate ethics committee for accepting improper gifts, he received noticeably lukewarm endorsements from his own party. New Jersey's Republican nominee for Senate, Douglas R. Forrester, called on Mr. Torricelli to resign. What began as a lopsided race has turned into a free-for-all. B1

New Garbage Plan Unveiled
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced that the city would stop hauling its trash out of state one truck at a time and instead adapt dormant waterfront stations in each borough so garbage can be floated away by barge. A1

Harlem Team Gains State Title
A Harlem Little League baseball team has won the New York State championship. The team now has an opportunity to reach the Little League World Series in Williamsport, Pa. The state championship is also validation for an urban Little League program that has had to overcome numerous challenges. B1

CIRCUITS G1-10

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B9

Gerald Gunther
A distinguished constitutional scholar and a legal educator, he was 75. B9

SPORTS D1-7

Olympic Skating Arrest
A man accused of being in Russian organized crime was arrested in Italy on an American complaint that he conspired to fix the pairs figure skating and ice dancing competitions at the recent Salt Lake Winter Olympics. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Hallburton Deal Under Scrutiny
Vice President Dick Cheney's tenure at Halliburton is under new scrutiny. At issue is whether Halliburton was aggressive enough in investigating the asbestos liabilities it was taking on in acquiring Dresser. Mr. Cheney's office said the deal was thoroughly reviewed. A1

G.E. Changes Options Terms
General Electric joined a growing number of companies that are changing how they account for stock options and then went even further by altering some terms of the options granted to executives. A1

Consumer Spending Slows
The post-Sept. 11 growth spurt that ended last year's recession appears to have faded. With spending in the second quarter slower than expected, the economy appears to be weaker than first thought. C1

Buffett Considers Investment
Warren Buffett is close to a deal to invest as much as $500 million in Williams Companies, the troubled energy concern, executives close to the negotiations said. The move would be his second major investment in the energy sector this week. C5

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: What the senator did not say; the fragile recovery; drug coverage failure; bringing Congo's great war to an end.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HAMAS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); POLITICS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); GENERIC DRUGS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%); FINFISH FISHING (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); WIRETAPPING (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%); ESPIONAGE (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); AGING (61%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MEXICO (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



18 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: Because of 9/11, a Uniting River Now Divides 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: LAJITAS, Tex., July 25 

 BODY:
On the night Lilia Falcon was born 31 years ago, her mother headed north. The Mexican hospital nearest to her family's tiny village meant a trip of 160 miles south over dirt roads. The trip north was half as long. So a boatman ferried her mother across the Rio Grande, and Lilia Falcon entered the world in the hands of an American doctor.
 The journey might have violated American law, but Ms. Falcon's mother was abiding by the unwritten law of the Big Bend Country, a scarcely populated region of remote desert and jagged mountains named for the abrupt northward turn of the river. For generations, people on both sides have crossed the Rio Grande to shop, to work when work could be found or to share company in a place removed from the outside world. 
 But even here, the ripples from Sept. 11 are being felt. The Border Patrol, acting in the name of domestic security, has put an end to the unofficial rowboat crossings that local and federal officials had tacitly allowed for years. In May, Border Patrol agents raided the crossing here, arresting more than 20 people, including the boatman. Two similar crossings in Big Bend National Park have also closed. 
People here agree that the nation must remain vigilant against terrorism, but they say the closings are a misguided solution that weighs most heavily on people who are already among the poorest of the poor. Marriages cross the river here, as do most families. Now, anyone caught crossing the river faces a $5,000 fine and possibly jail time.
"These crossings have been around for generations," said Pete Gallego, a Democrat who is the area's state representative. "That river is not a dividing line. It's just a geographic feature, because people on both sides depend on each other to make a living."
The practical effect is that what once was a 15-minute trip by rowboat can take six hours because of the drive, particularly rough on the Mexican side, to reach the region's only official crossing, at Presidio, Tex. Unable to make such a trip daily, many construction workers who have work permits and jobs in the United States but homes in Mexico are sleeping in tents or trucks. Others are packed into a bunkhouse. About two dozen children on the Mexican side, some American citizens, are cut off from the only school.
The two small Mexican villages that depended on tourists from Big Bend National Park are devastated. The restaurant Ms. Falcon's family ran in the village of Boquillas has closed. A month ago, Ms. Falcon left Boquillas for the United States, searching for work so she could send money home. She saw her mother recently when she went down to the river.
"She was on the other side," Ms. Falcon said. "She was crying and so sad. She would throw kisses at us. My mother is right there, yet she is so far away."
The new policy has sparked protests and unity rallies on the American side and is creating a bureaucratic tangle as the Park Service explores ways to reopen the park crossings to Boquillas and to the village of Santa Elena. Mr. Gallego's office is researching whether a third crossing at Lajitas, a resort just west of the national park and about 225 miles southeast of El Paso, could be made an official port to the village of Paso Lajitas across the river.
"We're not going to get the federal government's attention for very long," Mr. Gallego said, citing the many procedural hoops involved.
The federal government began investing greater resources along the border in the 1990's, increasing the number of Border Patrol agents to crack down on illegal immigration and drug smuggling, particularly in El Paso, San Diego and along the Rio Grande Valley. The monitoring tightened even further after Sept. 11.
In more populated places along the border, the new security measures have meant longer delays in crossing. Yet because these areas have more official ports of entry, people with proper paperwork still cross back and forth every day. In the Big Bend, a region with more than 400 miles of international border, Lajitas was once one of several Class B ports, unpatrolled crossings that could be used by people with legal status. But those designations were removed in the 1990's, leaving the bridge at Presidio as the only official port in the huge and remote region.
Still, until recently, boatmen regularly shuttled tourists and locals over the three unofficial crossings, often charging $1 for a ride to Mexico and $2 for the ride back, a small reminder that life is never equal on the border.
"All our family, they live in Mexico," said George Garcia, an electrician who lives in Terlingua, about 10 miles inland from Lajitas. "We used to cross at the spot for 10 years or more than that. We used to go to Mexico every weekend or sometimes two days a week to see our family."
Since 2000, the main source of employment in the region has been a resort being built at Lajitas, which has brought construction work to an area accustomed to double-digit unemployment. But on May 10, the resort's general manager, Dan Carroll, said he was inside his house overlooking the crossing spot when he heard a helicopter roaring down the canyon above the river. Border Patrol trucks quickly arrived. About 20 people were detained on immigrations violations.
Mr. Carroll said work permits for about 70 employees, since approved, were being processed at the time of the raid. He said those workers are now essentially trapped, separated from their families. About 35 live in a bunkhouse provided by the resort, while others sleep in trucks or tents.
Pablo Caballero, a spokesman for the Border Patrol office in Marfa, Tex., which covers the Big Bend area, expressed sympathy for people on both sides of the river but said agents were simply upholding the law. Many residents said the Border Patrol conducted the raid because they were embarrassed by news media reports that depicted the region as having a porous border. Mr. Caballero said his office was aware of the reports, but he attributed the raid to other factors, including having 20 new agents thanks to more federal money.
"We had always patrolled that area, and if we saw anyone crossing there illegal, an arrest was made," Mr. Caballero said. "The difference is before we didn't patrol that area as frequently as we patrol it now."
He added, "Sept. 11 did change our lives."
Law enforcement officials also believe that the closing of the crossings could help reduce drug trafficking. Smuggling is not as severe here as in more populated areas, like El Paso, yet significant amounts of Mexican marijuana do pass through. Mike Keene, a special agent with the regional office of the Drug Enforcement Administration, said drug smuggling had dropped noticeably since the crossings were closed and the Border Patrol increased overall monitoring.
But he also said the traffickers' routes were far more extensive than the three crossings used by local people. Drug agents have identified 90 trails used by traffickers over a 400-mile stretch of the border, often in places where trucks can ford the river. These trails, locals say, would make far more likely entry points for terrorists than the unofficial crossings where they would instantly be noticed.
"If anybody out of the area showed up, we'd all notice them," said Rick Page, who runs the century-old trading post in Lajitas. "We're all related."
Frank Deckert, superintendent of Big Bend National Park, said he respected that the Border Patrol needed to uphold the law, but questioned the wisdom of closing the crossings. For decades, park rangers have worked with Mexican villagers, teaching children about ecology and holding an annual international festival. The park has also encouraged tourists to cross for meals at the restaurants, even erecting signs that point to the crossings. The crossings are also listed in local guide books.
Mr. Deckert said he was talking with Customs officials to see if rangers could be trained and essentially deputized as Customs agents, thus allowing the crossings to reopen.
For residents of Lajitas and nearby Terlingua, many of whom came to this isolated, rugged place to get away from the rest of the world, the closings have caused great anger.
Residents gathered at the Lajitas crossing to show solidarity with their neighbors in Paso Lajitas. Lt. Col. Patricia Kerns, a judge advocate general in the Air Force Reserve who lives in Terlingua, has organized local opposition to the closings and is trying to set up an August meeting with the Border Patrol and officials in Washington. Others say the crossings should be made official ports with full-time agents checking people who pass through, thus ensuring security while providing access for locals.
"They are our community," Colonel Kerns said. "It was like if in your neighborhood they put up a wall and said, 'You can't talk to them anymore, and they can't talk to you anymore.' "
Ms. Falcon, meanwhile, is back in the country where she was born. She has spent her life traveling back and forth across the river, but she had figured she would be in Boquillas for the foreseeable future. She was helping her mother run the restaurant, and she said every day brought excitement as tourists from all over the world appeared out of the park brush for a meal. In a village with only one telephone and no gas station, it was as if the world was coming to her.
Now, she is living in an almost empty apartment in Fort Stockton, Tex., near her cousins. She has not found a job and is applying for food stamps. She and her two daughters were sleeping on a linoleum floor until a customer from the restaurant who learned of their plight bought them beds and a kitchen table. The man also helped deliver food and clothes to the people in the village.
He rowed across and handed the goods to the grateful villagers, but he never got out. Ms. Falcon stood on one side, her mother on the other. They could only wave.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For generations, people on both sides have crossed the Rio Grande near Lajitas, Tex., to shop, work and visit relatives. Since a Border Patrol raid in May, those crossings have ended. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A18) Map of Texas highlighting Lajitas: Unofficial crossings near Lajitas, Tex., are now officially closed. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); CHILDREN (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PETE GALLEGO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



19 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: 2 Fed Nominations Approved by the Senate 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31 

 BODY:
The Senate today approved the nominations of two economists, Ben S. Bernanke and Donald L. Kohn, to serve on the board of the Federal Reserve, bringing the policy-setting panel to full strength.
 Mr. 
Bernanke, a Princeton economist who advocates explicit targets for acceptable inflation as a way to keep prices in check, and Mr. Kohn, a senior Fed staff member and a trusted lieutenant of the agency's chairman, Alan Greenspan, cleared the Senate on a voice vote. 
 Earlier in the day, the nominations were approved by the Senate Banking Committee.
The approvals will bring the Board of Governors to its full strength of seven members, all of whom vote when the central bank sets interest-rate policy. The Fed's next meeting is on Aug. 13.
Mr. Bernanke, 48, will serve the rest of an unexpired term that ends on Jan. 31, 2004, while Mr. Kohn, 59, will serve a full 14-year term that would date from Feb. 1, 2002. 
Wall Street economists and former Fed governors said the two candidates could provide continuity should Mr. Greenspan leave when his four-year term as Fed chairman ends in June 2004, when he will be 78. President Bush has now picked four of the seven Fed board members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (54%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) BERNANKE, BEN S.; KOHN, DONALD L. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002 



20 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 2564 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. "Baseball as America," an exploration of the relationship between baseball and American culture; through Aug. 18. In the Imax Theater, "Bears" and "Kilimanjaro: To the Roof of Africa." Imax tickets for both films, including museum admission, are $21; $17 for students and 60+; $15 for children under 12. Tickets to one Imax feature, including museum admission, are $15, $11 for students and 60+ and $9 for children under 12. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., except Fridays, when the Rose Center is open until 8:45 p.m. for the "Starry Nights" music program. Admission to "Baseball as America" is by timed-entry ticket only, available on the half-hour, beginning at 10:30 a.m. Tickets, including suggested museum admission, are $15; $11 for students and 60+; $9 for 12 and under; under 2, free. Combination tickets are available for other museum exhibitions. General museum admission (suggested donation): $10; $7.50 for students and 60+; 12 and under, $6; under 2, free. Combination tickets are available. Information: www.amnh.org, (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other media, including drawings, posters and photographs. "David Bowie: Sound and Vision," a retrospective of the singer's career, with music videos and rare film of performances, documentaries and interviews; through Sept. 15. "Cartoon Power," a celebration of the Cartoon Network with screenings of episodes of "Utica Cartoon," "Foe Paws," "Courage the Cowardly Dog," "Cow and Chicken" and "Sheep in the Big City." Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $6; students and 62+, $4; 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.

Zoos

BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. Some 265 wooded acres are devoted to naturalistic habitats, including Jungle World, African Plains, the Baboon Reserve, the World of Birds, the Aitken Sea Bird Colony (with daily penguin feedings at 3:30 p.m.), Big Birds and the Congo Gorilla Forest (admission, $3), a six-and-a-half-acre reproduction of the Central African rain forest, with lowland gorillas, African rock pythons, Wolf's monkeys, bugs, birds and reptiles. The children's zoo features interactive exhibitions and domestic animals (admission, $2). Daily camel rides are available on the weekends, $3 a person. Narrated tours of Wild Asia on the Bengali Express Monorail, $2 round trip. Both the zoo shuttle and the Skyfari are $2 each way. Classes available for adults and children. Information and registration: (718) 220-6854. Reservations necessary for daily tours: (718) 220-5141. Zoo hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. General admission: $11; children 2 to 12, $6; 65+, $7; children under 2, free; by donation Wednesdays. Parking: $7. Information: (718) 367-1010.

CENTRAL PARK ZOO, Fifth Avenue at 64th Street. "Chill Out," a weekend of activities to help zoo residents and visitors keep cool, featuring an ice carving demonstration, preparation of icy treats for the polar bears, and penguin feedings in an air-conditioned display area; tomorrow and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. "Wildlife Theater," interactive theater shows throughout the day. Adult and children's courses available; course information, (212) 439-6583. Hours, including the Tisch Children's Zoo: daily, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Last ticket sold at 4 p.m.) Admission: $3.50; 65+, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; under 3, free. Admission includes the Tisch Children's Zoo. Information: (212) 861-6030.

WALKING TOURS

"A TOUR OF 19TH-CENTURY NEW YORK." Experience New York 200 years ago while walking past the Greenwich Village residences of famous literary and historical figures. Meets today at noon and 2 p.m. in front of Lemongrass Grill on the southwest corner of Seventh Avenue and Barrow Street, Fee: $10. Sponsored by Old New York Tours. Information: (212) 803-5199.

"DISCOVER PROSPECT PARK," a free walk that focuses on the park's water sources and Brooklyn's last forest, meeting Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m., in the Prospect Park Audubon Center at the Boathouse. Sponsored by the Prospect Park Alliance. Information: (718) 287-3400.

"GRAMERCY PARK, STYLE, ELEGANCE AND RENOWN." A look at the history and architecture of an area that once claimed as residents Edith Wharton, O. Henry, Stanford White and Theodore Roosevelt. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. on the southeast corner of Broadway and 20th Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"SOUTH STREET SEAPORT, THE BACK STREETS" explores the commercial district and forgotten streets of the area. Meets Sunday at 2 p.m. at the northwest corner of Beekman and Front Streets, Lower Manhattan. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Bernie's New York. Information: (718) 655-1883.

STREET SMARTS, N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m. "Walks in Old Chelsea," meeting in front of the Flatiron Building, Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., the East Village, meeting at the subway kiosk of the IRT stop at Astor Place. Fee for each, $10. Information: (212) 969-8262.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. "Salute to Tony Bennett," with stops at Midtown locations associated with the singer's career, like the Ed Sullivan Theater, Radio City Music Hall, CBS television studios and the former site of the Paramount Theater, meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. on the northwest corner of Seventh Avenue and 57th Street. "Tudor City Trek" examines a five-acre residential complex built in the late 1920's, meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. on the northeast corner of Second Avenue and 45th Street. Fee for each, $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"LIFE AND GARDENS IN THE 'LOISAIDA,' " a look at the importance of community gardens in a Lower East Side neighborhood now in rapid transformation, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the southeast corner of First Avenue and 14th Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15, $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 439-1049 or 935-3960; www.mas.org.

SWING STREETS. A walk through Greenwich Village that will focus on music-related sites, particularly jazz, as well as historic residences and structures. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. at S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street. Fee, $15. Information: (718) 680-6677.

"HIKE NEW YORK CITY," a six- to eight-mile hike of Midtown and Lower Manhattan, with commentary on its history and folklore. Meets Sunday at 10 a.m. at the visitors' entrance to the United Nations, First Avenue and 45th Street. Fee: $25, plus refreshments. Led by Michael Kaback. Information: (212) 370-4214.

NOSHWALK IN FLUSHING, QUEENS, visits markets that specialize in Asian delicacies and produce, meeting tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. at the Queens Botanical Garden, administration building, 45-50 Main Street. Fee, $20. Sponsored by NoshWalks. Information: (212) 222-2243.

"HARLEM: KEYSTONE OF AFRICAN AMERICA." The history, homes, churches and cultural and economic growth of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at City College, Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street, Hamilton Heights. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Information: (212) 242-5762.

92ND STREET Y. "Inside Woodlawn Cemetery," a walk through the historic cemetery with Lloyd Ultan, an author and historian, Sunday at 10 a.m. Also Sunday, at 9:30 a.m., "A Tale of Two Cities and a Bridge," that looks at both Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn Heights and includes a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge. Fee for each, $20. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 415-5500.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS. "Sutton Place and Marilyn Monroe's New York" visits the former residences of the Vanderbilts, Morgans and Marilyn Monroe, tomorrow and Sunday at 12:30 p.m.; "Old and New Money: The Origins of Central Park West and Fifth Avenue" stops at the Dakota, the Prasada, and the Payne Whitney and Henry Clay Frick mansions, tomorrow and Sunday at 2:45 p.m. Fee for each, $12. Reservations and meeting places: (212) 465-3331.

BIG ONION TOURS. "Historic Harlem" includes the architecture and cultural history of Harlem, meeting today at 1 p.m. at Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Lenox Avenue; "SoHo and Nolita at Twilight," meets tomorrow at 5 p.m. in front of the old East River Savings Bank on the southeast corner of Spring and Lafayette Streets. Fee for each, $12 or $10 for students and 63+. Information: (212) 439-1090.

RECREATION

"PARK TO PARK ONE-MILER," a swim for those 15 and older, from South Cove in Battery Park City to Pier 26 at Hudson River Park. Begins Sunday at 2:45 p.m. at South Cove. Sponsored by the Manhattan Island Foundation and the Hudson River Park Trust. Registration fee, $55. Information: (212) 533-7275.

"PONTIAC MANHATTAN HALF-MARATHON," a 13.1-mile run in Central Park, beginning Sunday at 7:30 a.m. on the East Drive and 70th Street. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance fee, $20; $14 for club members; $10 for junior and senior club members. Race-day registration, $30; $20 for club members; $12 for junior and senior club members.Information: (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

GREATER HARLEM HISTORIC FAMILY BIKE TOUR, a 12-mile tour through the streets of Harlem, beginning Sunday at 10 a.m. at St. Nicholas Avenue and West 135th Street and ending at the General Grant National Memorial in Riverside Park, Riverside Drive and West 122nd Street, where there will be entertainment. Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. Advance registration fee, $15, $5 for children seven to 15; on Sunday, $20, $10 for children. Proceeds benefit the Harlem Y.M.C.A. and the Harlem Week Scholarship Fund. Sponsored by Harlem Week and the Harlem Jazz and Music Festival 2002. Information: (212) 862-8477 or www.harlemdiscover.com.

EVENTS

"SUNSET JAM ON THE HUDSON," interactive drumming workshops with Mary Knysh. Tonight from 6:30 to 8:30. Free. Robert F. Wagner Jr. Park, Battery Park City. Sponsored by the Battery Park City Parks Conservancy. Information: (212) 267-9700.

"RIVERFLICKS," a free outdoor film series, featuring "Better Off Dead" (1985), directed by Savage Steve Holland, tonight about 8:15., the Hudson River and North Moore Street, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by the Hudson River Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275.

"WORLD'S FAIR OF MONEY," Marriott Marquis Hotel, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, Manhattan. Featuring hundreds of coin dealers and collectors, and activities for adults and children. Through Sunday. Today and tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday, 9 a.m. to noon. Sponsored by the American Numismatic Association. Information: (800) 367-9723.

HARLEM WEEK 2002 BLACK FILM FESTIVAL, Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building, 163 West 125th Street, Harlem. An annual festival running through Aug. 17. Screenings include "Thomasine and Bushrod" (1974), directed by Gordon Parks Jr., today at 6:30 p.m.; "The Harlem Globetrotters" (1951), tomorrow at 4:10 p.m.; and "Porgy and Bess" (1959), Sunday at 3 p.m., directed by Otto Preminger. Admission is $5, $4 for students. Sponsored by the Museum of African American Cinema and the IAMAA: Harlem Art Council. Information: (212) 749-5298.

"ACCESS UPHEAVAL," annual free, outdoor production presented by the Theater for the New City at various locations around the city through Sept. 15. Locations this weekend: East 10th Street and First Avenue, Manhattan (today at 2 p.m.); and Harry's Playground, 206 East 124th Street, Manhattan (tomorrow at 2 p.m.) Information: (212) 254-1109.

DANMARK TOURS, South Street Seaport, Pier 17, Lower Manhattan. Free dockside tours of the historic Danish tall ship, today, 2 to 4 p.m.; tomorrow, 1 to 2:30 p.m.; and Sunday and Monday, 3 to 5 p.m. Information: (212) 732-7678.

STEEL DRUMS IN HUDSON RIVER PARK, Pier 25, Hudson River at North Moore Street, Manhattan. Featuring the Point Forton New Creation Steel Drum Orchestra. Every Saturday from 3 to 5 p.m. through Aug. 24. Sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust.

COMMUNITY DAY: "WHAT'S POPPIN': EDUCATION," East Side House Settlement, Alexander Avenue, between 141st and 143rd Streets, Mott Haven, the Bronx. A day of interactive activities blending education and entertainment. Today, noon to 4 p.m. Information: (718) 665-5250, extension 14.

INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY FESTIVAL, Mid-Bronx Desperadoes Community Housing Corporation, Boston Road and 174th Street, Bronx River section of the Bronx. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Information: (718) 378-0970 or (718) 842-0256.

URBAN PARK RANGERS will offer an array of free activities this weekend. Tomorrow, canoeing on Spuyten Duyvil and the Bronx River, both in the Bronx; reservations necessary. Also tomorrow, an ecology workshop at 10 a.m. in Marine Park, Brooklyn. Sunday, biking in Crotona Park in the Bronx at 1 p.m. and in Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx at 11 a.m. Also Sunday, orienteering in the Central Park Ramble at 1 p.m. and birding in Forest Park, Queens, at 2 p.m. and in Blue Heron Park on Staten Island at 11 a.m. Information: (866) 692-4295.

JAMAICA AVENUE FESTIVAL, between Parsons Boulevard and 168th Street, Queens. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

WASHINGTON SQUARE SUMMERFEST, West Fourth Street, from La Guardia Place to Avenue of the Americas, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Children's Aid Society.

GREENWICH AVENUE FESTIVAL, between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, West Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

EAST RIVER PARK, "IT'S MY PARK, IT'S OUR WORLD DAY," Amphitheater, East River Park, south of Williamsburg Bridge, Lower Manhattan. An event emphasizing conservation with displays, workshops and entertainment. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Lower Eastside Ecology Center. Information: (212) 477-4022.

COLUMBUS AVENUE SUMMER FAIR, from 66th to 72nd Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAS, Avenue of the Americas, from 42nd to 57th Streets, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Avenue of the Americas Association.

JUNCTION BOULEVARD FESTIVAL, from Roosevelt to 35th Avenues, Jackson Heights, Queens. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

MOMA IN QUEENS, a tour of the area around the new Queens location for the Museum of Modern Art, led by the Friends of the Parks; contribution, $1 Meets Sunday at 1:45 p.m. at the museum, 45-20 33rd Street, Long Island City. Museum information: (212) 708-9400 or www.moma.org.

"JAMMIN' ON THE HUDSON," with a "Special Tribute to Cecil Payne," featuring the Sunday at 5 p.m. at Riverbank State Park, 679 Riverside Drive, at 145th Street, Hamilton Heights. Part of a free series of outdoor concerts. Information: (212) 694-4829.

"MOONDANCE," Pier 25, Hudson River and North Moore Street, Lower Manhattan. Free dancing to live music. With Andy Farber and the Swing Mavens, a big band. Sunday, 6:30 to 10 p.m. Part of a summer series sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275.

LOU DONALDSON QUINTET, a jazz and blues band, appearing Sunday at 4 p.m. at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, Central Park, 110th Street and Fifth Avenue. Part of the free Harlem Meer Performance Festival, running through Sept. 1. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy; spectators should bring seating. Information: (212) 860-1370.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ZOOS -- Central Park Zoo will offer "Chill Out" this weekend. (E. Kellerman/Wildlife Conservation Society) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BASEBALL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); MUSIC (88%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (87%); PRIMATES (87%); BIRDS (84%); HISTORY (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); FILM (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%); ANIMALS (65%); RAIN FORESTS (60%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%); MAMMALS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (90%); CENTRAL AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



21 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
A Brazilian's Work in the 70's Now Looks New

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
TO organize delirium." It is the phrase Haroldo de Campos, the Brazilian poet, came up with to explain what his friend Helio Oiticica was up to. I couldn't put it better.
 Oiticica's name may not ring a bell, although in the last decade he has finally become known outside Brazil and beyond cult followers. Before he died in 1980 at 42, he was one of those deeply charismatic figures (like Lygia Clark) who contributed to the great experiment that was Brazilian art in the 1950's and 60's. The military government that came to power in 1964 gradually ended a cultural efflorescence that was South America's equivalent of Paris in the 20's or New York after World War II. 
 Not that New Yorkers or Parisians paid much attention at the time. Oiticica (pronounced oy-tee-SEE-kah) remained on the margins of Europeans' and Americans' consciousness at best. 
Better late than never: one of the benefits of 21st-century economic and cultural globalization is the overdue nod toward artists like him, who turn out to have been doing things 30 or 40 years ago that pass for new today.
Witness the show now at the New Museum of Contemporary Art, originally organized by Carlos Basualdo for the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus, Ohio. It features works from the 1970's, when Oiticica left Brazil and settled in New York City for nine years. His trajectory is instructive. He began in the 1950's making abstract paintings and sculptures, colorful geometric constructions, a little like big origami, in a familiar European modernist idiom. The works sometimes hung from the ceiling. By 1960 these had evolved into structures large enough to walk into.
Then (in what seemed like a big leap, although it evolved naturally out of the previous sculptures) he started to experiment with unconventional materials: he made works from tents, like homemade shanties, to sleep in, and filled big jars with colored dirt you could dig your hands into.
He made miniversions of Earth Art, constructions made of stones, cement blocks and plastic bottles picked up from the street and studiously arranged, and he also designed banners and capes. He talked about "fusing together color, structures, poetic sense, dance, words, photography" -- about appropriating "things of the world which I come across in the streets, vacant lots, fields, the ambient world, things which would not be transportable but which I would invite the public to participate in."
The world is a museum, he said. There's art everywhere.
He became what Dan Cameron, the New Museum's senior curator, calls a social sculptor, staging ad hoc events, conceiving what has now come to be called (the word can make your heart sink by this point) installations. People were invited to walk barefoot through sand, dance to music, parade, smell incense, put on colorful clothes and buff their nails.
It all sounds quaint, perhaps, but at the time, and especially where Oiticica was coming from, it was radical and fresh. To encounter his work from the 60's today, even if you are somebody congenitally resistant to this sort of art, is at least to sense the openheartedness, which for Oiticica was the reason to make art in the first place.
In Brazil he worked among the residents of Rio's slums, making a virtue of their material poverty. The work had an implicit social thrust, but it was not explicitly political. It dovetailed, formally speaking, with Happenings, Fluxus and much else going on in Europe and the United States, but with specific local roots -- local roots and a universal message. Oiticica wanted nothing more than for people to kick off their shoes and to immerse themselves in the karmic pleasures he devised.
In 1970 he was included in the "Information" show at the Museum of Modern Art, then won a Guggenheim fellowship to come to New York. He stretched out his stay, taking odd jobs and ending up struggling to make ends meet, a familiar arc. He first lived in a loft on Second Avenue across the street from the Fillmore East (the show includes his funny little Super 8 film of the theater and the neighborhood), then moved to Christopher Street.
He threw himself happily into the worlds of experimental cinema, rock 'n' roll and downtown art. He saw performances by Yvonne Rainer and Yoko Ono. Works by Robert Smithson, Gordon Matta-Clark, Dan Graham and Peter Campus all must have rung a bell. He befriended Jack Smith, whose four-hour slide shows in his loft in the East Village made a particularly big impression on him.
So did John Cage and Andy Warhol: Oiticica seems almost to have wanted to be a Brazilian Warhol, to create his own Factory, to make his own version of Warhol's films, to immerse himself in the whole Warholian universe of underground gay culture, drugs and celebrity.
Out of this he made what's at the New Museum: erotic photographs of young men as a slide show set to Cagean sound bites from the radio. With Neville D'Almeida, a Brazilian filmmaker, he devised quasi-cinemas, multimedia environments he called Cosmococas. Oiticica would organize these in his loft, but he also wrote elaborate instructions so they could be re-presented elsewhere. These were dedicated to pop stars like Marilyn Monroe and Jimi Hendrix.
Three of them are in the show. In a room slung with colored hammocks, a Hendrix soundtrack plays as slides of his album "War Heroes" flash on the walls and ceiling with lines of cocaine in different patterns on the album. Oiticica and D'Almeida called these cocaine drawings.
More cocaine drawings, this time featuring Monroe, from the photograph on the cover of Norman Mailer's book about her, flicker in another room filled with sand and balloons.
The soundtrack is Yma Sumac, the 50's Peruvian singer and Latin music diva. Last, among scattered mattresses and pillows, are cocaine drawings of the filmmaker Luis Bunuel, from a cover of The New York Times Magazine.
I suspect the descriptions of the works make them sound juvenile or pointless, which they are not. A buoyancy derives partly from the music and also from a sly humor, self-mocking and pervasive. Oiticica seems to have been without pretense, and this allowed his work to be vulnerable. "Creleisure" was a word he concocted for idly participating in art that is incomplete without the visitor's contribution. His work depended on other people's open minds.
Unlike his earlier art, I should add, these New York works had a slightly aggressive tone that he no doubt picked up from the streets, even though it didn't really seem to suit his temperament. He plugged into the chaos that was the city in the 1970's and found the place both seductive and depressing.
The art bespeaks a naivete that is charming and anachronistic. Cocaine as a pigment for drawing and an outlandish symbol of delirium and lawlessness is a concept that seems to come from another time.
The textbook significance of Oiticica's work is its foreshadowing of current video installations and other multimedia creations. Oiticica was a low-tech pioneer. That alone is not why his work is worth seeing, although it's a pity the Guggenheim Museum canceled its plans to present a full-scale Oiticica retrospective that was in Paris a decade ago.
It would have seemed prescient to exhibit him before the onslaught of 90's installation art.
Instead we get this late, somewhat tangential slice of his career. So be it. It's a reminder of an artist willing to take risks. We can still learn a thing or two from him. Art was for him a state of mind and a condition of the heart -- a university for the soul with an open-admission policy.

"Helio Oiticica: Quasi-Cinemas" remains on view at the New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222, through Oct. 13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, an image from the quasi-cinema "Neyrotika" (1973), which is being shown in an exhibition of the Brazilian artist Helio Oiticica's projects, including works done in collaboration with Neville D'Almeida, at the New Museum in SoHo. Below, a view of "Cosmococa 3 (CC3) Maileryn," a 1973 slide series with sand and balloons, which is also at the museum. (Photographs by Helio Oiticica/$;Projecto Helio Oiticica)(pg. E29); In "Cosmococa 5 (CCM5) Hendrix-War" (1973), an installation by Helio Oiticica, slides flash by with their own rhythm and music. (Helio Oiticica/$;Projecto Helio Oiticica)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); PAINTING (75%); WORLD WAR II (70%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (50%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (50%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NYC) 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL; OITICICA, HELIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



22 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1822 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Gilt by Association: Less Status, More Room

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
ASPEN. Palm Springs. Woodstock. Southampton. Palm Beach.
 These are historic names that resonate with status, prestigious playgrounds for the select few, nestled in spectacular settings. 
 Then there is Basalt. And Cathedral City, Saugerties, Hampton Bays and Stuart.
Never heard of them?
That's because they are border towns, notable mainly for the fame of their neighbors. But they may be comparative bargains for second-home buyers seeking access to chic enclaves without living in them. These towns offer easy access to ski slopes, beaches and trendy restaurants and clubs without necessarily demanding a six-figure down payment. 
They bestow on their residents the joys of reverse snobbism. Border town residents are confident enough not to have to carry around their pedigrees or their Louis Vuitton luggage.
The downside? Telling people you spent hundreds of thousands of dollars for a beautiful vacation home in . . . Basalt. Then having to give the required addendum to mystified friends: it's next to Aspen.

Basalt, Colo.
WHY: A classic Western river town, Basalt is 18 miles northwest of Aspen, the cosmopolitan ski resort. Aspen Mountain is 20 to 45 minutes away, and for summer fly-fishing and rafting on the Grand Fork and Frying Pan Rivers, which converge in Basalt, it's more central than Aspen. Like Aspen, it is a historic 19th-century town that has some Victorian houses dating from the 1880's.
"It's very reminiscent of Aspen 30 years ago," said B. J. Adams, who owns B.J. Adams & Company, a real estate brokerage company in Aspen. "A lot of 100-year-old homes are being bought and renovated and beautifully landscaped."
Still, Basalt, which has about 2,800 year-round residents, is mainly a bedroom community for people who work in the area, which means there's less of the tourist trade that some people say has begun to erode some of Aspen's charm. 
Basalt seems poised to take off. Architects, interior designers, real estate brokers and contractors have built offices there.
"Well-educated, professional people are now in Basalt," said John Cottle, a 22-year resident and a principal in Cottle Gray Beal & Yaw, a local architecture firm. "Even if someone has the economic means to live in Aspen, Basalt's a viable choice."
WHAT IT WILL COST: In Basalt, a 2,500- to 3,500-square-foot house will cost around $700,000. Smaller houses go for $450,000. At the low end is a $289,000 three-bedroom tract house in a subdivision. At the high end is a $5,595,000 working cattle ranch on 136 acres, with an 1889 farmhouse. 
In Aspen, the average house price is $3.4 million, and prices of $1.5 million for a small one- to three-bedroom house -- what locals call a scrapper -- are not uncommon.
CONTENDER: Carbondale. A little more agricultural in character, a little farther down Highway 82 from Aspen and perhaps a little less quaint than Basalt. The cost of a three-bedroom, two-bath house is $300,000 to $1 million, said Ms. Adams, the Aspen real estate broker.

Cathedral City, Calif.
WHY: Palm Springs, the grande dame of desert resorts, has already undergone a face lift. Want to buy a midcentury modern glass house on a green fairway? Too late. It's sold. And the Spanish-style villa you fantasized about isn't available at a discount.
Fifteen minutes away is Cathedral City, in the foothills of the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains. The Cove, an old section of town, has a few houses with flat roofs and lots of glass that were built in the late 1950's or early 60's. 
"The Cove is interesting and funky," said Trish Wortman, a broker at Marilyn Perlin Realtors Inc. of Palm Springs. "You can have an inexpensive cabinish home next to a 3,000-square-foot modern house."
Cathedral City, known as Cat City, lacks the nouveau hipness of Palm Springs. It was never hip. This town of 47,000, which started as a blue-collar bedroom community for hotel workers in Palm Springs, is now attracting people during the winter season, about 15,000 a year. Frank Sinatra never lived here, but second-home owners can still golf at the 108 courses in the Coachella Valley.
WHAT IT WILL COST: In the newer areas like Rio Vista or Panorama, prices range from $140,000 for a starter home to $300,000 at the high end. Condominiums close to golf courses are $70,000 to the low $100's. A four-bedroom contemporary with a flat roof and a guest house is listed at $379,000. 
In Palm Springs, a three-bedroom, 1,500- to 1,800-square-foot house starts at $200,000 and goes up to $600,000; condominiums range from about $60,000 for a 600-square foot one-bedroom unit to $240,000 for a two-bedroom, 1,200-square-foot unit within walking distance of the city center.
CONTENDER: La Quinta, about 10 miles southeast of Cathedral City, is surrounded by scenic golf courses and three mountains. Single-family homes here cost $150,000 to $700,000.

Hampton Bays, N.Y.
WHY: The physical beauty of the Hamptons knows no borders. Hampton Bays has the glistening waters of Shinnecock Bay to the south and the Great Peconic Bay to the north. And Hampton Bays has something Southampton does not: marina space.
Often considered the working-class Hampton, Hampton Bays is predominantly a year-round residential community with many first-time homeowners. It is also the most densely populated and economically diverse hamlet in the town of Southampton. 
It does not have social cachet, prompting some less secure residents to try to bask in the reflective glory. "People will sometimes say, 'I live in Southampton township,' " said Deidre Ciraco Francolini, the manager and an associate broker at Coldwell Banker Dunesview Properties in Westhampton Beach.
WHAT IT WILL COST: A two-bedroom, 1,200-square-foot house here will cost about $300,000, while a modest starter home is $200,000. A house on the water will demand a premium: $400,000 on a creek to $1 million on a bay (at least $500,000 less than in Southampton). 
In Old Harbor, a four-bedroom colonial with a pool and garage is on the market for $495,000, and on the Rampasture Peninsula, a three-bedroom waterfront ranch is on the market for $850,000. 
In the neighboring towns, Ms. Francolini said, even the smallest home would start at $400,000, and for larger houses away from the water, the range is more typically $650,000 to $2 million.
And no one is surprised when a large luxury house on the water sells for $7.5 million, Ms. Francolini said.
CONTENDER: East Quogue is a little pricier than Hampton Bays, but even so, it is still less expensive than the "name" Hamptons.
A large subdivision, Southampton Pines, was recently built here, and its 160 new homes, ranging from 2,500 to 4,000 square feet, are priced at $550,000 to $800,000. In East Quogue, a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath colonial within walking distance of a private beach typically costs $500,000.

Saugerties, N.Y.
WHY: Woodstock has everything. It is a legendary artists' colony with cafes, the Woodstock Playhouse and bars with live music that rival Bleecker Street's. Ten miles east, Saugerties has always been in Woodstock's shadow. Its Main Street recalls the 1950's.
"My father always said that Saugerties is the town that never happened," said Gail Cadden, an illustrator and longtime Woodstock resident.
But Saugerties does have the Hudson River and some stately Victorians, and it has started a farmers' market (every Saturday from July to October). Many people from New York City buy vacation homes in the mountains near Saugerties because they are less expensive than those in Woodstock. 
"The property values have never escalated the same way that the Woodstock property values have," said Elda Zulick, a real estate broker in Saugerties. Many second-home owners, Ms. Zulick said, are producers, writers and artists who appreciate being near Woodstock but not in it. 
"I like Saugerties because it's a little more laid-back," said Stuart Bragg, an advertising executive in the health care unit of Foote, Cone & Belding. He lives on the Upper West Side and bought a three-bedroom ranch house in Saugerties earlier this year.
"Woodstock is a place where New Yorkers have always gone to get away or drop out of the New York scene," he said. "Saugerties is more like a regular American town."
WHAT IT WILL COST: As house prices in Woodstock have climbed, those in Saugerties have, too, but just not quite as much. Prices range from $85,000 for a small house of approximately 1,000 square feet in good condition to slightly more than $1 million for large houses in the mountains or on the river.
A contemporary two-bedroom house on less than an acre would cost about $240,000 in Woodstock, but a similar three-bedroom house in Saugerties is on the market for $189,000. A two-bedroom, one-bath cottage on an acre lot would be $135,000 in Woodstock, $85,000 in Saugerties.
CONTENDER: Phoenicia, nestled in the Woodland Valley of the Catskills, is a more rural community, a little farther from Woodstock but close to the Belleayre ski resort.
A four-bedroom Victorian farmhouse with a stream in back is available for $179,000, and a two-bedroom house with a separate cottage on eight acres bordering state parkland is $259,000, said Sheri Safier, a associate broker at Westwood Metes and Bounds Realty in West Hurley, N.Y.

Stuart, Fla.
WHY: In Palm Beach, the sumptuous romper room for the rich, the average price of a house on less than an acre with no water in sight is $1.6 million. Oceanfront? $15 million to $18 million. The east coast of South Florida is densely populated and has little waterfront property available, period, forcing people to migrate up the coast.
That is what makes Stuart an attractive alternative, even though it is not exactly a satellite of Palm Beach.
Stuart is on the Atlantic about 40 miles north of Palm Beach, and it also has the Intracoastal Waterway and St. Lucie River. In Stuart, the farthest house from the ocean is still only seven miles away. Stuart has a historical downtown with cobblestones and fine restaurants, and even in traffic, Stuart is still just 45 minutes from the West Palm Beach International Airport. Among the perks: strict zoning and no industrial areas. The population in 1991 was 113,000; now it has risen 15 percent, to 130,000.
Stuart is developing as a second-home community. "Right now, baby boomers in their late 30's and 40's are coming from New York and Connecticut to buy the waterfront," said Michele Post at Re/Max of Stuart.
WHAT IT WILL COST: A three- to four-bedroom house, not on the water, will bring about $200,000. The going rate is $2 million for oceanfront, and $400,000 on the canals. Two-bedroom condominiums on nearby Hutchinson Island cost $225,000.
CONTENDER: West Palm Beach is the traditional place for shoppers priced out of Palm Beach. Separated by a causeway from Palm Beach, West Palm has houses that cost $300,000 to $400,000. Town houses and condominiums are $100,000 to $150,000, said Abe Himelstein, the branch manager of Prudential Florida WCI Realty in Boynton Beach.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLOSE CALL -- Famous and expensive Palm Beach, Fla., far left, or affordable and nearby Stuart, left. (Photographs by Gary T. Truman for The New York Times)(pg. F1); LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION -- A renovated four-bedroom Bermuda-style home (fabulous pool) in Palm Beach's quiet Northend neighborhood is priced at $1,595,000, above left. A four-bedroom home on a large lake (no pool) was listed at $245,000 in Stuart, Fla., above right.; COMPARISON SHOPPING -- An 1875 three-bedroom home on three acres is currently on the market for $475,000 in Woodstock, N.Y., above left. In neighboring Saugerties, the asking price for a 1910 two-bedroom house on a little over two acres is $117,900, above right. (pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); RESORTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); MOUNTAINS (75%); SKIING (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CITIES (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); SPORT FISHING (66%); TOURISM (50%) HOUSING 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (70%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); ADAMS & CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (70%); LVMH (BIT) (70%); PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (66%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (66%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) BASALT (COLO); CATHEDRAL CITY (CALIF); HAMPTON BAYS (NY); SAUGERTIES (NY); STUART (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



23 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: As Other Markets Founder, South Korea's Remains Solid 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
It was not long ago that Asian stock markets were among the world's worst performers, battered by the financial crises that spread from Thailand in the summer of 1997 to South Korea by November, almost bringing the Korean economy to its knees.
 Now, as markets in Europe and the Americas continue to slump, weighed down by worries that the economic recoveries in many leading industrial nations may be faltering, South Korea has proved to be remarkably resilient. Since hitting a low in September, the Seoul market's benchmark index has risen 50 percent. While, the index fell 1.41 percent today, it remains up 2 percent for the year -- outperforming most major Asian markets and exceeding by far markets in the United States and Europe. 
 "Asia is more robust than the United States or Europe," said Pieter van der Schaft, director of economic research at Barclays Capital in Hong Kong. "The economic cycle is basically positive. Asia has come ahead of the United States in terms of domestic demands."
A downturn in the United States market "definitely influences the Korean market negatively," noted Chang Won Chang of the Korea Finance Institute. But "up to this point, we cannot see any out flight" of investors pulling out of South Korea, he said.
The Korean economy demonstrated its resilience today with a sharp increase in exports. The Commerce Ministry reported that exports for July rose nearly 20 percent, to $13.65 billion -- the biggest gain in nearly two years. Shipments of semiconductors and other electronics products accounted for much of the gain, but motor vehicles also increased significantly.
The rising value of the Korean currency, the won, and new signs of weaknesses in the economies of the United States -- the biggest overseas market for South Korea -- and Europe are raising concerns about South Korea's ability to sustain that pace of growth, however. South Korea ships around 20 percent of its exports to the United States, which on Wednesday reported that economic growth slowed sharply in the quarter from April through June. 
Still, Lee Sung Kwon, chief economist for Good Morning Securities, one of Seoul's leading Korean securities firms, cited "very stable domestic demand" as reason for confidence in South Korea.
The restructuring and discipline that Korean companies were forced to adopt because of the 1997-1998 economic crisis should serve to protect industry in South Korea, he said.
"Since 1998 we have undergone a very painful process so we have trimmed the size of our corporate sector," Mr. Lee said. "We focus on core business areas and have cut off the weak areas. The focus on high value-added areas has returned competitiveness."
Unlike Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan, which had downturns last year, he noted, South Korea "grew by 3 percent, and I am sticking to my estimate of 6.2 growth for this year."
At the same time, analysts say Korean companies have gone far toward overcoming their habit of exaggerating earnings, basing lofty sales records on sales to related companies, since the 1997-1998 financial crisis. 
"We have more confidence in Korean corporate strategists," said Hank Morris, a longtime financial consultant here. "What's gone on before won't be tolerated."
South Korea learned its hardest lesson three years ago during the collapse of the Daewoo group, then the country's second-largest conglomerate. By the time the accountants had uncovered the real story several months after Daewoo acknowledged that it could not repay its loans, the group's liabilities were estimated to exceed $80 billion.
"Korea is in a good position," Mr. Morris. "They have begun to attack their accounting ills in the wake of the Daewoo collapse, and they will continue to do so."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Resilient Nation"Despite a recent decline of the stock market in Korea,the country's economy is considered to be one of the most stable in Asia. Graph shows Korean Kospi stock index since August 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



24 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Russia Withdraws Sale of Lukoil, Calling Price Too Low 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The Russian government has abruptly pulled a plan to sell nearly 6 percent of Lukoil, Russia's biggest oil company. 
 While the cancellation of the share sale sets back Moscow's privatization plans, the move was greeted with relief by analysts and investors here. The sale of 5.9 percent of Lukoil on the London Stock Exchange would have come at a time when markets in Europe and the United States are sliding and investors have been cool to new offerings. 
 The Russian government deliberated until late into the night on Wednesday, but then withdrew the offering, which was expected to raise some $700 million. Government officials indicated that the price being offered by large international investors was not high enough.
Shares of Lukoil rose 3 percent in trading in Moscow today.
"Everyone understands that this is not a proper time for privatization or any other sales," said Konstantin Reznikov, an oil and gas analyst with Alfa Bank, a Moscow-based brokerage firm. "The market conditions are terrible."
Indeed, analysts contrasted Wednesday's decision favorably to past efforts by the Russian government, which had often sold valuable assets on the cheap during the economic chaos of the 1990's. 
Vladimir Malin, the chairman of Russia's State Property Fund, was quoted by Bloomberg News as saying that the "time of privatizing Russian companies at any price is over."
The flagship privatization of Lukoil would have left the government with an 8 percent stake. It would have been the largest privatization since the sale of Onaco, another oil company, in 2000. 
"The government is pretty serious about protecting its own interests," said Kaha Kiknavelidze, an oil and gas analyst with Troika Diolog in Moscow. "That means stability in Russia. Russia does not need this privatization that badly this year."
Still, the Ministry of Finance has announced that this year's extra budget revenue would be only a third of the amount originally planned. 
"Russia is still running a surplus so it's not a disaster," said Roland Nash, head economist at Renaissance Capital, a brokerage firm in Moscow. "But they're becoming a bit less fiscally conservative."
Investors who had bid to buy the Lukoil shares said that they had not lost interest in the stock, and would buy when the government was finally ready to sell. 
Lukoil has also applied for a listing on the London Stock Exchange, which it expects to receive next week. It will be the first Russian company with a full listing on the London market. Investors will be able to convert their Russian shares into global depository receipts, which are easier to trade.
"On a 10-year view, this is one of the best investments you could make in Russia," said Ian Hague, a partner at Firebird Management L.L.C., a New York-based equity fund that had bid for Lukoil stock. 
Other Russian companies have also said they would hold back from selling stocks and bonds abroad any time soon. The Tyumen Oil Company recently put off a $500 million Eurobond sale. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BUDGETS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (90%); LKOD (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



25 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales in Surprise Jump, And G.M. Leads the Pack 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Car and truck sales in the United States rose a surprising 8.6 percent in July, largely because of aggressive incentives from automakers.
 The General Motors Corporation reinstated zero-percent financing early last month, a reprise of the incentives it offered after the Sept. 11 attacks. As a result, its combined car and truck sales led the industry, rising by 23.9 percent in July compared with figures for the month a year earlier. 
 Most of the increase came on the strength of truck sales, which posted a 36.7 percent increase. Preliminary figures indicated that higher sales pushed G.M.'s share of the United States car and truck market to 30 percent, a level it had not reached since February, said Paul Ballew, the chief industry sales analyst at G.M. 
"In the midst of a seemingly endless stream of negative economic and industry stories, the auto industry had positive results," Mr. Ballew said. "And there's no way to describe G.M.'s performance in July other than to say it was terrific."
He noted that two-thirds of G.M. buyers in July opted for no- or low-interest financing, a percentage that is higher than usual; most traded in vehicles made by other companies. The strong sales depleted inventories more than expected, prompting G.M. to increase production for the third quarter.
Other automakers followed G.M.'s lead on incentives by offering interest-free or low-interest financing in addition to cash rebates. But G.M. benefited most.
The Ford Motor Company said its car and truck sales rose 1.5 percent, its first year-over-year increase for 2002. In addition to financing incentives, Ford is offering rebates that are as high as $7,000 on the Lincoln Continental. Not counting sales from its Volvo, Jaguar and Land Rover import brands, however, Ford's sales were up a scant 0.7 percent.
Combined car and truck sales for the Chrysler Group, which offered zero-interest loans and a seven-year or 70,000-mile power-train warranty in early July, fell 4 percent.
Sales for the entire industry, which had lagged in recent months, were stronger than analysts and auto company executives had predicted. The increase translated into an annual selling rate of 18.1 million vehicles, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. Automakers sold 17.2 million vehicles in all of 2001.
"Economists are all doom and gloom, but American consumers are ignoring them and living their lives," said Ron Pinelli, an analyst at Autodata Inc. in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.. "They see a good deal on a car and they respond. Consumers went where the deals were."
Indeed, sales at Mitsubishi, on the strength of heavy incentives, soared 46.3 percent, its best single sales month ever. Toyota Motor, which is offering incentives of up to $1,300 a vehicle, had a sales increase of 4.6 percent for its best-ever July. Sales at its Lexus luxury division rose 4.5 percent. Honda said its sales rose 7.9 percent, and sales by its Acura division increased 1.6 percent. The rest of the imports had mixed results: BMW, Porsche, Hyundai, Kia and Suzuki had higher sales; Mercedes-Benz, which is awaiting the introduction of several vehicles, Volkswagen and its Audi division and Isuzu had lower sales. Subaru held steady.
The current round of no-interest financing and other incentives are scheduled to expire in late August and early September, but auto executives said they expected strong incentives to continue into the near future. Indeed, Mr. Ballew said G.M., which has led the incentive charge over the last year, would remain aggressive in the marketplace.
The incentives are making it possible for households to add more cars and trucks, leading to the higher-than-expected sales, said Gary Dilts, senior vice president for sales at the Chrysler Group. "The affordability index is the best it's been in 25 years," he said. 
Still, automakers acknowledge that they may be poaching sales from the future and warn that shaky consumer confidence and the roller-coaster stock market could hurt sales. Nonetheless, they predict that the industry will sell 16.5 million to 17 million vehicles in 2002 and about the same in 2003.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Auto Sales in July" ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks sold in the United States, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows the number of cars and light trucks(minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States since 2001. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. Cars2002: 740,6622001: 666,837CHANGE*: +6.6% Light trucks2002: 783,4172001: 680,086CHANGE*: +10.6 Total2002: 1,524,0792001: 1,346,923CHANGE*: +8.6 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2001 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 197,223CHANGE*: +10.6%MARKET SHARE: 26.6% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 122,701CHANGE*: +0.1MARKET SHARE: 16.6 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 87,680CHANGE*: +9.4MARKET SHARE: 11.8 Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 53,328CHANGE*: +9.8MARKET SHARE: 7.2 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 78,646CHANGE*: 3.8MARKET SHARE: 10.6 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 40,594CHANGE*: +22.0MARKET SHARE: 5.5 TOPSELLING VEHICLESThe topselling vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 60,774CHANGE: - 9.2% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 54,296CHANGE: + 8.2 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 41,152CHANGE: + 16.2 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 38,789CHANGE: + 3.4 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 38,571CHANGE: + 17.2 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 33,616CHANGE: - 13.1 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 30,914CHANGE: + 1.3 Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 29,746CHANGE: +127.6 Ford RangerNUMBER SOLD: 27,558CHANGE: + 33.4 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 25,837CHANGE: - 21.1 Chevrolet TahoeNUMBER SOLD: 24,237CHANGE: + 54.9 Ford FocusNUMBER SOLD: 21,955CHANGE: + 13.1 LIGHT-TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2001 sales. Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 193,436CHANGE*: + 2.8%MARKET SHARE: 24.7% G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 265,739CHANGE*: +36.7MARKET SHARE: 33.9 Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 147,352CHANGE*: - 8.8MARKET SHARE: 18.8 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 68,373CHANGE*: - 1.0MARKET SHARE: 8.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 21,708CHANGE*: -16.0MARKET SHARE: 2.8 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 33,896CHANGE*: +44.8MARKET SHARE: 4.3 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. + Includes Volvo and Rover sales.$S Includes MercedesBenz sales. (Source: Wards AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES FINANCING (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (53%); TM (NYSE) (53%); 7203 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



26 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: U.S., in Shift, Says It Backs Latin Bailouts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Just days after suggesting that he would oppose new financial aid for battered South American economies, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill signaled today that the United States was now willing to back bailout plans for two of the hardest-hit nations, Brazil and Uruguay. But he pointedly left out a third, Argentina.
 Mr. O'Neill, whose comments on the financial troubles in Latin America over the last month have upset financial markets and set off a diplomatic tiff with Brazil, used a news conference here today to mend some fences. 
 Sticking carefully to scripted remarks, unlike many previous occasions, Mr. O'Neill praised Brazil and Uruguay for pursuing sound economic policies, and offered some encouragement but no new help to Argentina, whose economy fell into a swoon late last year after several years of economic struggles. The Treasury secretary leaves for a swing through South America on Sunday.
"I continue to favor support for Brazil and other nations that take appropriate steps to build sound, sustainable and growing economies," Mr. O'Neill said.
His comments suggested that the United States would not block Brazil's efforts to negotiate a new package of loans from the International Monetary Fund. Plagued by growing questions about its ability to repay all its debt, and with its currency plunging in value, Brazil -- South American's largest economy by far -- has struggled in recent weeks to avert a full-scale economic crisis.
Brazilian officials arrived in Washington this week for talks with the monetary fund. Thomas Dawson, the fund's spokesman, told reporters today that it was in negotiations on an "active, urgent basis."
The positive signals from the Treasury Department and the fund helped Brazil's currency stage a strong recovery today. The currency, the real, was up nearly 10 percent, after losing nearly a third of its value this year.
Mr. O'Neill said he planned to assure Uruguay that he would support new assistance to help reverse a sharp economic deterioration in that country. Thousands of workers staged a four-hour strike in Uruguay today, the third day in which banks there have been closed. 
"Uruguay deserves the ongoing support of the international financial community for its commitment to sound economic policy," he said.
But Mr. O'Neill offered no such assurances of support for Argentina, which the Bush administration views as having mishandled its economy. He hinted that the United States does not believe Argentina has yet taken all the necessary steps to bring its budget deficit, debt and currency under control.
Since taking office, the administration has looked skeptically on bailout packages for struggling nations, saying it is a waste of taxpayers' money to pour aid into nations that cannot, in the long run, repay all their debts.
It has been under increasing pressure, however, to help in Latin America, where after years of movement toward market economies and democracy there is a growing popular backlash against stringent economic policies.
The American stance toward the region's problems has been complicated by bad feelings set off by comments made on Sunday by Mr. O'Neill. Asked on Fox News Sunday about aid to the region, Mr. O'Neill said he would not be bringing any offers of help with him on his trip.
He said aid would be forthcoming only after Latin American nations could assure that the aid "doesn't just go out of the country to Swiss bank accounts."
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, enraged at the implication that his government was corrupt -- something Mr. O'Neill's office said he never meant to imply -- said he would not meet with Mr. O'Neill unless he retracted his statement, according to reports in the Brazilian news media. Brazil summoned the United States ambassador to lodge a protest.
The reaction from Brazil led the White House to offer conciliatory words on Tuesday, and Mr. O'Neill offered more today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); STRIKES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); URUGUAY (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%) LATIN AMERICA; URUGUAY; BRAZIL; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



27 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Economic Reports Are Disappointing, and Shares Plunge

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled yesterday as new economic data showed that manufacturing was weaker than expected in July and several companies reported disappointing earnings.
 But unlike a few weeks ago, the sharp drops in the three main stock market gauges came after a modest rally, which began on July 24, that led some analysts to say that stocks were near or at their bottom. So yesterday's declines may not be so worrisome if investors believe that the market is just bouncing around its bottom. 
 The news yesterday, however, provided reminders of the problems that led to the four-month sell-off that sent the stock market to a five-year low just more than a week ago. All three gauges added to their losses in late trading and finished just off their lows for the day. 
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 229.97 points, or 2.6 percent, to 8,506.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 26.96 points, or 3 percent, to 884.66. The Nasdaq composite index fell 48.26 points, or 3.6 percent, to 1,280.00.
Among the stocks leading the market lower were 3M, I.B.M., Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Wal-Mart and Citigroup.
Bond prices rose as the weaker economic data hinted at lower interest rates. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.39 percent from 4.47 percent on Wednesday. The price rose 19/32 , to 103 24/32 . The yield on the two-year note, which is particularly sensitive to economic growth expectations, dropped to 2.13 percent, a record low, from 2.25 percent on Wednesday.
The Institute for Supply Management said that its factory index fell to 50.5 in July from 56.2 in June, raising worries that the economy could slow significantly or even fall into another recession, just months after the previous one appeared to have ended. 
"It makes us nervous," said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan, referring to the new manufacturing data and a report on Wednesday that the economy grew at only a 1.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter. "We don't know if this is telling us this is a pothole and we will bounce back, or if this is some new retrenchment in the business community that will slow us down."
Mr. Glassman said that he was very surprised by the steep drop in the new orders component of the index. It plunged to 50.4 in July from 60.8 in June. A reading above 50 means there is still growth; a reading below 50 means a decline.
The arrests of the former chief financial officer and the former controller of WorldCom on fraud charges also focused investor attention on financial scandals. Some analysts expect more disclosures of accounting trouble before Aug. 14, the date set by the Securities and Exchange Commission for top executives to begin certifying the accuracy of company financial statements.
Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates, said there might have been "a period of corporate distraction" as senior executives studied their financial statements, which could explain the slowdown in July. But if not, he said, the cause could be a new credit squeeze, which would be much more damaging to the economy.
The 41 percent drop in second-quarter profit reported by Exxon Mobil is another sign that the strong rebound in corporate earnings that many analysts have forecast for the second half of the year may not materialize. Shares of Exxon Mobil fell $3.11, or 8.5 percent, to $33.65.
Even some of the positive news could still conjure up worries among investors. The Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, said that he supported additional financial aid for Brazil, which needs billions of dollars to help it meet its debt payments. Mr. O'Neill's comments are good news for Brazil but also underscore the shaky outlook for Latin America if assistance does not arrive soon.
The news that the Williams Companies, the troubled energy concern, will receive an infusion of $3.4 billion from loans and asset sales means the company could avoid bankruptcy. But it also reminds investors about how much trouble some energy companies are in.
The stock of the PG&E Corporation, the owner of California's biggest utility, plunged 30 percent after the company said that the credit rating of its subsidiary, PG&E National Energy Group, was cut to junk bond status by Standard & Poor's.
While Mr. Glassman said it was not yet clear how serious the threat of an economic slowdown is, he said that the new economic data was enough to make him consider changing J. P. Morgan's growth forecast for the second half of the year. That forecast calls for 4 percent growth at an annual rate. "You'd have to say that it is feeling right now like 2 percent to 3 percent," he said. --------------------

Manufacturing Sluggish
WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 (AP) -- Manufacturing grew more slowly in July, while construction spending in June fell to its lowest level in almost two years, according to two reports released today. A third report said that new claims for jobless benefits went up last week.
The Institute for Supply Management reported that its index of business activity dipped to 50.5 in July from 56.2 in June, a sign that manufacturing was growing sluggishly, although it was still the sixth consecutive month in which manufacturing activity increased. An index above 50 signifies growth in manufacturing. 
In another report, the Commerce Department said construction spending declined 2.2 percent in June from May. That pushed down the value of construction projects to $820.8 billion, the lowest since August 2000. 
In a Labor Department report, more Americans filed new claims for unemployment insurance last week. For the week ending July 27, new applications for job benefits rose by a seasonally adjusted 20,000 to 387,000. 
The more stable four-week moving average of claims, which smooths weekly fluctuations, edged up last week to 386,000. The moving average has been below the 400,000 mark, a level associated with weakness in the job market for seven weeks.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); SCANDALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



28 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: With Unfinished Agenda, Congress Juggles Compromise and Confrontation 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Just a few days ago, the 107th Congress was racking up a string of unexpected achievements on corporate responsibility and trade despite divided party control. But the collapse of prescription drug legislation in the Senate showed that other issues remain stubbornly intractable.
 This conflicting impulse toward compromise on some issues and confrontation on others has been a hallmark of this Congress, which has come up with an unexpected list of accomplishments for both President Bush and the Democrats, yet still has a substantial unfinished agenda. In addition, there are powerful forces tugging in each direction as the midterm elections approach. 
 Republicans who control the House and the Democrats who run the Senate each have a symbiotic need to show voters that they have had legislative success. At the same time the two parties still have deep ideological differences on many issues that pull them apart, and the minority party in each house usually wants to see the majority fail.
As a result, the session -- which still has a bankruptcy agreement, pension protections, election overhaul, a domestic security department and spending bills in the balance -- might yet end in a burst of new legislation or a partisan implosion.
Many of the year's achievements have occurred when unexpected events overrode traditional divisions. The terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 produced swift action on aviation security, on new powers for the nation's intelligence agencies and on a resolution empowering the president to use force in Afghanistan. Concern over the nation's vulnerability is still likely to produce legislation to create a domestic security department.
Similarly, the stock market meltdown and a string of corporate scandals propelled legislation to ensure more corporate accountability. "It just got to a crescendo of proportion that it couldn't be ignored by anybody," said Senator Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey.
But this late in the Congressional session, with elections looming closer, a key to whether the jousting sides will want an achievement or a campaign issue can be found in the parties' election-year themes and how vulnerable each side feels when confronted with the attacks of the opposition.
"Politics is about offense and defense," said Carter Eskew, a former strategist for Al Gore, "and it's about choosing your moments."
With an eye to the fall elections, Democrats are keeping the issue of corporate malfeasance front and center and accusing Republicans of being the party of special interests and big business. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, stood today next to a teary WorldCom employee who had lost his job and life savings at age 57 and pledged that the Senate would begin a drive to pass pension protections in September. Mr. Daschle also asked why there had been no prosecutions in the Enron collapse.
Republicans are running against the Senate Democrats as obstructionists who must be removed from the majority in order to pass President Bush's agenda. Republican leaders handed out a report card today for Mr. Daschle that showed a string of "Incompletes."
"You know, in the classrooms of America, if you have a report card with this many 'Incompletes,' you're held back a grade," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader. "In this case, the solution is for the majority to be taken back and put into Republican hands."
To some extent, every issue is being judged by whether it furthers or blunts these two lines of argument.
Aware that there are pitfalls for their party from the jittery stock market and perceptions that the Bush administration is closely associated with corporate America, Republicans quickly sailed beyond the president to join Democrats in enacting tough measures to fight corporate malfeasance. 
President Bush then signed it into law with a White House ceremony that gave him joint ownership of the legislation -- somewhat to the frustration of Democrats who had pushed it forward. "I've seen conversions before," Senator Christopher Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said wryly. "This is the biggest since Paul at Damascus."
Today, when Mr. Daschle spoke of the Senate's intent to take up a pension bill in September, Republicans let loose with a barrage of press releases saying the House had already passed such a measure. The National Republican Senatorial Committee, the party's Senate campaign arm, also sent all its campaign managers a long list of research showing Democratic ties to corporate interests that they could bring up on the stump.
The economy also drove Mr. Bush to make a renewed press for the trade negotiating authority that he called essential to bring in new trade deals to further growth. To win, Republican negotiators agreed to the kind of package of worker assistance, including a new health care entitlement, they had resisted in the past.
The prescription drug debate had a different dynamic. Aware that it would be a blow to his party not to pass a prescription drug benefit, Mr. Daschle devoted more than two weeks of debate to the issue and attempted a last-ditch compromise when the Democrats' measure could not get the 60 votes to prevail.
But Democrats and Republicans could not get beyond their profound philosophical difference over whether they want the program to be delivered through Medicare, a government program, or though insurance companies and health maintenance organizations.
Republicans used the Senate's failure to make the case that Mr. Daschle has not led. "Tom Daschle is either unwilling or unable to pass the legislation that Americans need," said Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip. 
The Democrats countered with their argument that the Republicans back special interests. "The Republicans cannot say no the drug companies," said Mr. Daschle, blaming them for the legislation's collapse.
Senator Gordon H. Smith, an Oregon Republican who had tried to broker a compromise, blamed both parties, saying, "In this place there is more emphasis on political ads than public policy this late in the Congressional session." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); MISCONDUCT (66%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); SCANDALS (63%); DISMISSALS (62%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%); AL GORE (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



29 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
A World Of Sports, And Trouble

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
AVAILABLE until yesterday on the Web site of Andrei Medvedev, the Ukrainian tennis player, were several photos featuring the latest rogue in the unending Winter Olympics figure skating riddle, Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov.
 In one photo now making the rounds, Tokhtakhounov, who federal prosectuors have accused of being in Russian organized crime, sits all chummy with his arms around Medvedev and Marat Safin, along with Yevgeny Kafelnikov, who, like Safin, is Russian. 
 What does this suggest, or prove, in relation to the federal charges Wednesday that Tokhtakhounov is a fixer of the infamous Olympic pairs competition, beauty pageants and -- pardon the redundancy -- ice dancing? 
Nothing, nothing at all, but it should red flag us to see the bigger picture, the threat of intercontinental crime in a sports world without borders. 
We celebrate, with good reason, the globalization of our professional sports industries. Major League Baseball is stocked with Latin Americans and, increasingly, Asians. The National Hockey League is loaded with skilled Europeans. The National Basketball Association, after more than a decade of sending slam dunks abroad with the manifest mandate of a fast-food chain, is now experiencing the inevitable evolution.
Major League Soccer is a small subculture of many cultures. Women's leagues in basketball and soccer have opened up American shores to many an international professional. North America is where the big money is for professional skating tours, for those few Olympic heroes whom the public doesn't dispose of like a fortnight of old newspapers.
Above all, there is a reason why, since 1980, there have been four Olympics in the United States, and just one, for comparison's sake, in Russia. The center of the free-market universe beckons one and all, but when the world is invited to join us in sport, there is always a chance the underworld will come, too.
Many of our imported athletes are from countries with new and struggling free-market economies, with high unemployment and poverty rates, with mob activity that is loosely constrained, and some undoubtedly with ties to American organized crime. The athletes -- young, impressionable and vulnerable -- bring their own sets of baggage. 
In 1994, for instance, a Russian gangster admitted to trying to extort $150,000 from Alexander Mogilny, and it was feared that several other Russian players in the N.H.L. might have been involved in shakedown attempts. Soon after, Pavel Bure came under scrutiny for associations with a member of Russian organized crime.
"Organized crime in many of the countries these athletes are coming from pretty much operate without great resistance, probably more like it was in the States in the 1920's and 1930's," a sports executive who has worked around the world, including Russia, said yesterday. "There's a lot of betting on the games. Some of these places are so poor, they'll pretty much try anything they can."
Would Tony Soprano stoop to bribing skating judges? Trying to fix an ice dancing competition is like irrigating the ocean. Ice dancing, not a sport, should not even be in the Winter Olympics. What can you say that Tokhtakhounov got caught trying to corrupt the crooked? He was sloppy. The F.B.I., monitoring Tokhtakhounov for unrelated reasons, aided by the Italians, stumbled into our salacious winter scandal, into the court of Larry King. 
Most of the sniffs of American organized crime in sports have led nowhere. For decades, the feds have been unable to lay a glove on Don King. Stories of N.B.A. stars consorting with the mob were met with 20-minute internal investigations that seemed to satisfy all.
Sports executives would rather have Michelle Kwan skate across their tongues than admit to impropriety, much less the possibility of organized crime infiltration. At the first sign of turbulence, new I.O.C. President Jacques Rogge took the easy way out in Salt Lake City when he declared the pairs skating a draw, sending the French judge to the gulag, when he should have ordered a thorough restructuring of figure skating under the threat of suspension from the next Winter Games. 
His solution created more questions than it answered, as does Wednesday's arrest. All it tells us is that characters of questionable repute are out there -- in the ears of skating judges, on tennis Web sites, and who knows where? 
What is being done about it? In all likelihood, nothing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jacques Rogge (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (93%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); EXTORTION (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); TENNIS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BASEBALL (73%); SOCCER (73%); ETHICS (72%); PARDONS (72%); POOR POPULATION (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); FAST FOOD (52%); POVERTY RATES (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); ETHICS; ORGANIZED CRIME 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%)

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



30 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Harassment Suit Settled 

BYLINE:  By Al Baker (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 A man who sued the city for what he considered harassment after he complained on television in 1997 about a traffic-ticket trap near the Bronx Zoo has settled the case for $290,000. The man, James E. Schillaci, was later arrested that year on a 13-year-old warrant for traffic violations. In his suit, Mr. Schillaci, now 55 and an unemployed limousine driver, contended that the arrest was city harassment and violated his civil rights. A federal judge has not yet filed the final dismissal order, said Michael L. Spiegel, Mr. Schillaci's lawyer. A city spokeswoman said the city admitted no wrongdoing but determined that settlement was in the city's best interest. Al Baker (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); JUDGES (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; SCHILLACI, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



31 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing Connecticut: Hartford: $812 Million Budget Deficit 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Connecticut ended the last fiscal year $812 million in the red, State Comptroller Nancy Wyman, left, said yesterday. 
A drop in income tax revenue can be blamed for more than half of the deficit, as falling stock prices, job losses and a generally weak economy cut into people's personal incomes, she said. "The Sept. 11 attacks and recent revelations of corporate fraud added to the economic instability over the last fiscal year," Ms. Wyman said. State lawmakers and Gov. John G. Rowland reached a budget deal in June, agreeing to use the state's entire Rainy Day Fund to cover $595 million of the debt. They likely will borrow money to cover the remaining $217 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); INCOME TAX (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (54%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: WYMAN, NANCY S (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



32 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: National Semiconductor Reduces Forecast 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 National Semiconductor said yesterday that its first-quarter sales would rise less than forecast on reduced orders for chips used in personal computers and related peripherals. Shares fell in extended trading. 
Sales in the quarter ending Aug. 25 will be about the same as the fourth quarter's $419.5 million, the company said in a statement. The company said in June that first-quarter sales would increase from 6 percent to 8 percent from the previous quarter. In the first quarter a year ago, the company reported sales of $339.3 million. National Semiconductor's chips are used in a wide range of electronic devices, from PC's and cellphones to so-called Internet appliances that can use the Web. Consumers have cut purchases of such products on growing concern that the economy may not soon improve. "With everything else we're seeing in technology, it doesn't shock me," said James McBride, a fund manager at Kornitzer Capital Management, which has $2.5 billion under management including 399,305 National Semiconductor shares. "They were doing well and now" the economy and declining corporate and consumer spending on computers have caught up with them, he said. Shares of the company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., fell as low as $15.97 in after-hours trading. They dropped 98 cents, or 5.4 percent, to $17.13 during regular trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (90%); KORNITZER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



33 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: 10 Asian Nations Join With U.S. in Pledge to Fight Terrorism 

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Ten Southeast Asian nations joined the United States today in pledging to "prevent, disrupt and combat" global terrorism through increased sharing of information and intelligence, winding up a regional conference in Brunei at which North Korea and Washington took a first step toward renewed dialogue.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell signed the agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations before flying here for meetings with top Indonesian leaders on terrorism and military cooperation on Friday. The declaration commits a region that is battling extremist groups, including some with links to Al Qaeda, to strengthening counterterrorism training, exchanging financial and immigration data and working to create joint programs with the United States. "It's not a project; it's a base for projects," one senior American official said. 
 Some members of the group, known as Asean, had worried that the agreement could lead to an increased American troop presence in the region, where American forces have already helped the Philippines fight the Abu Sayaf guerrilla group.
But at a news conference, Secretary Powell said he did not expect that would be so. Instead, he called the agreement with Burma, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos and Malaysia "a political declaration" of mutual cooperation.
The diplomatic buzz centered on the sidelines conversation between Secretary Powell and the North Korean foreign minister, Paek Nam Sun, who met informally on Wednesday morning for a 15-minute chat to discuss renewed security talks.
The meeting was part of a series of recent overtures by the North to the United States, Japan and South Korea. Today, Mr. Paek told reporters in Brunei that the two countries had agreed to resume dialogue, and that the State Department's top Asian expert, Assistant Secretary James A. Kelly, would soon visit the North. But a senior American official said no such commitment had yet been made.
The social highlight of the Asean meetings is the final night's gala, at which delegations perform satirical songs and skits. Secretary Powell's offering revolved around his performance last year, when he sang the Marty Robbins ballad "El Paso" and wound up in a rolling death-clinch on the floor with Makiko Tanaka, then Japan's foreign minister.
As usual, journalists were barred from tonight's show. But Secretary Powell and his aides repeated their performance for reporters aboard his plane en route here, including an elaborate video in which his wife, Alma, begged him: "Do not embarrass the family again that way," and an aide impersonating a television reporter suggested that Secretary Powell might lose his job to the socially conscious rock star Bono.
Suddenly, President Bush himself appeared on screen, speaking into a phone saying: "Colin, we have to talk," and complaining how the Russians outdid Secretary Powell last year. When Secretary Powell tried to explain how busy he had been working on the Middle East and other diplomatic hot spots, the president cut him off: "Yeah, whatever. Look, Colin, we're a proud nation. I hired you to be the best. Start practicing. Colin, just don't let me down."
Senior State Department officials said that when Mr. Bush's face and voice appeared, the audience of foreign ministers and officials was briefly stunned, thinking the president might actually be on a live teleconference to the ballroom. Then they exploded in laughter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); WRITERS (64%); POP & ROCK (61%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (57%) ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BONO (50%) PURDUM, TODD S; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); MYANMAR (92%); BORNEO (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) MYANMAR; PHILIPPINES; SINGAPORE; THAILAND; VIETNAM; BRUNEI; CAMBODIA; INDONESIA; LAOS; MALAYSIA

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



34 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2278 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

"AUSTIN POWERS IN GOLDMEMBER," starring Mike Myers, Beyonce Knowles and Michael Caine. Directed by Jay Roach (PG-13, 90 minutes). This third installment of the "Austin Powers" franchise is a very funny shambles, embellished with amusing celebrity cameo bits that range from Steven Spielberg to the Osbournes, and jam-packed with clever puns and puerile double-entendres. But for all the fun it kicks up, the movie feels bloated and chaotic. Mr. Myers adds a dull fourth character, the villainous Goldmember, to a repertory that already includes Austin, Dr. Evil and Fat Bastard. Mr. Caine appears as Austin's suave, still-swinging father, the British master spy Nigel Powers, and Ms. Knowles of the pop group Destiny's Child is a Pam Grier parody named Foxxy Cleopatra. The movie recycles several of the most popular notions from the second "Austin" film, "The Spy Who Shagged Me," most notably a silhouette sequence that appears to be a bizarre autoerotic ritual. What holds it all together is the manic exuberance of Mr. Myers's imaginary world, which suggests a Pee-Wee's Playhouse for eternal adolescents (Stephen Holden).

"THE BOURNE IDENTITY," starring Matt Damon and Franka Potente. Directed by Doug Liman (PG-13, 113 minutes). Mr. Damon plays Jason Bourne, a C.I.A. superassassin with amnesia who is chased across Europe in the company of a charming German waif (Ms. Potente) by his employers. There are espionage writers who use the genre to explore the complexities of geopolitics, but Robert Ludlum, on whose novel this competent, enjoyable picture is based, was not one of them. At a time when thrillers are shadowed by real-world anxieties, the implausibility and irrelevance of this movie, which amusingly imagines the C.I.A. as a supercompetent, virtually omniscient operation, comes as something of a relief. Mr. Damon handles his character's existential crisis with fierce adroitness, and Mr. Liman's direction has an old-fashioned swiftness and efficiency (A. O. Scott).

"K-19: THE WIDOWMAKER," starring Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson. Directed by Kathryn Bigelow (PG-13, 138 minutes). Mr. Neeson and Mr. Ford play Soviet naval officers wrestling for control of a nuclear submarine -- with each other, and with the vessel itself, a malevolent embodiment of totalitarian hubris and bureaucratic incompetence. Ms. Bigelow, one of the best pure-action directors around, turns a sturdy, conventional script -- a hybrid of "Alien" and "Mutiny on the Bounty," with many nods to submarine movies of the past -- into a swift, tense drama of dueling egos and mechanical catastrophe (Scott).

"THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE," with Robert Evans. Directed by Brett Morgen and Nanette Burstein (R, 93 minutes). Mr. Evans's story of sauntering into the right place at the right time and still feeling underappreciated is the focus of this movie, in which he serves as star, subject and unreliable narrator. The documentary travels through Mr. Evans's days as a young actor to his sojourn as the head of Paramount Pictures, when the studio released a storied cluster of hits like "Rosemary's Baby" and "The Godfather." "There are three sides to every story: my side, your side and the truth," Mr. Evans intones, acknowledging his subjective take. But despite -- or perhaps because of -- his skewed viewpoint, this film succeeds (Elvis Mitchell).

"LIKE MIKE," starring Bow Wow, Eugene Levy and Morris Chestnut. Directed by John Schultz (PG, 100 minutes). A 13-year-old orphan named Calvin (Bow Wow) turns around the fictional Los Angeles Knights pro basketball team, courtesy of a pair of magic sneakers that he finds. Calvin's new powers are observed when he wins a chance to shoot against a spoiled N.B.A. star during a halftime stunt. Naturally, he's asked to join the team. The successful kid rapper Bow Wow is a talented actor whose boyish eagerness here is a marked contrast to his taciturn rappadocio. The director's breezy steadiness keeps the movie from hitting us over the head -- well, not too hard, anyway, no small feat since the steroid-juiced sentimentality of the ending may force some to flee before the outtakes unspool under the credits (Mitchell).

* "LOVELY AND AMAZING," starring Catherine Keener, Brenda Blethyn, Dermot Mulroney and Emily Mortimer. Written and directed by Nicole Holofcener (R, 91 minutes). This smart, acidic comedy by the director of "Walking and Talking" could be described as a West Coast answer to "Sex and the City," minus that series' high-gloss glamour and erotic joie de vivre. Ms. Keener and Ms. Mortimer are sisters, both attractive and in their 30's, who have major self-esteem problems and poor taste in men. Ms. Blethyn is their vain mother who develops complications after liposuction. The movie zeroes in on contemporary narcissism with a relentless, needling accuracy that illustrates exactly the way some people allow their insecurities to poison their intimate relationships. But once it has limned its characters (Ms. Keener's is by far the most vivid), it doesn't go anywhere in particular (Holden).

"MEN IN BLACK II," starring Tommy Lee Jones, Will Smith, Lara Flynn Boyle, Rip Torn, Rosario Dawson and Tony Shalhoub. Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld (PG-13, 82 minutes). If your memory of the first one is a little hazy, don't worry: that was the point all along. And, in any case, this sequel provides the same pleasant, pointless mixture of whimsy and kineticism. Of course, like the "Ghostbusters" and "Austin Powers" sequels (to give only two out of several thousand possible examples), the fun has diminished because the novelty has worn off. Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones coast along, joined by Mr. Torn and Mr. Shalhoub (and a talking bulldog) from "Men in Black," and a host of creepy, scaly, funny aliens, including Ms. Boyle, her icy charms enhanced by hundreds of slimy tentacles and an extendable green tongue (Scott).

* "METROPOLIS," starring Rudolf Klein-Rogge, Gustav Frohlich and Brigitte Helm. Directed by Fritz Lang (not rated, 120 minutes). Lang's silent modernist fever dream -- a nightmarish grand opera of romantic love, alienated labor and technological power -- is one of the most studied and imitated films of all time, and has been reissued many times. Except for a brief theatrical run in 1927, though, the movie as Lang made it has never been seen. This latest version, the result of a four-year restoration project using archival materials and new digital techniques, may not be the director's cut, but it is as definitive a "Metropolis" as we are likely to see. The new 35-millimeter print is beautiful, the score has been newly recorded, and Lang's swirling, visionary stew of Christian symbolism, Expressionist set design and political anxiety is more grand and troubling than ever (Scott).

"MINORITY REPORT," starring Tom Cruise and Colin Farrell. Directed by Steven Spielberg (PG-13, 140 minutes). This atmospheric new thriller is a muscular and dense exercise of skill and verve. (Ironically, this exercise may be the most adult film that Mr. Spielberg has made in some time; it's about the bloody blurring of passion and violence -- a compassionate noir.) In 2054, a law enforcement unit called Pre-Crime exists to stop murders before they begin; three Pre-Cogs -- beings who float in a nutrient-rich fluid -- can predict when a crime will be committed and know the identity of the perpetrator. When the unit's chief, John Anderton, is accused of a crime he hasn't yet committed, he's soon on the run. Mr. Cruise does as much sprinting in this picture as he has in his entire filmography. The fluid bursts of quick-cut images seen on the monitors also show that Mr. Spielberg isn't about to be shown up by those quick-fingered, compulsively exhibitionistic upstarts like David Fincher. With "Minority Report" he toys with the idea that there's more -- and less -- to Mr. Cruise than meets the eye and says we shouldn't trust our eyes anyway. But doesn't he always? (Mitchell).

"MR. DEEDS," starring Adam Sandler and Winona Ryder. Directed by Steven Brill (PG-13, 91 minutes). It could be said that the remake of Frank Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town," starring Mr. Sandler in the title role, is redundant, since the actor has been remaking Capraesque movies for most of his career. As in Capra's original 1936 classic, Longfellow Deeds still lives in Mandrake Falls, is an aspiring greeting-card poet and has no patience for pretension. And once again, he is left a fortune by a distant relative: adjusted for inflation, the amount is $40 billion instead of $20 million. He's taken to New York, where he'll presumably be enticed by the city. Mr. Sandler's films are always about the arrogant getting a deserved comeuppance at the hands of humbler types, but this is the first time he seems a little smug himself. "Mr. Deeds" has him rehashing a role he has performed so many times before he could be doing this picture in his sleep. The result is likely to be that he'll put audiences to sleep (Mitchell).

* "ROAD TO PERDITION," starring Tom Hanks, Paul Newman and Jude Law. Directed by Sam Mendes (R, 119 minutes). This solemn, rain-washed period gangster film based on a graphic novel is a cool but stately work that achieves the grandeur of a classic Hollywood western. An exploration of father-son relationships viewed largely through the eyes of a 12-year-old boy, it follows the fugitive journey of Michael Sullivan (Mr. Hanks), a hit man for the mob outside Chicago, who flees the wrath of the middle-level boss (Mr. Newman) who is also his surrogate father. Filled with memorable tableaus, the movie is a serious picture show whose cinematography by Conrad L. Hall lends every frame an Edward Hopper-like mood. Mr. Newman (with an Irish brogue) steals the movie as Rooney, the mob boss faced with agonizing life-and-death choices. Mr. Hanks holds his own as the movie's enigmatic antihero on a vengeful mission: a killer-for-hire with a social conscience and a devotion to his young son (Holden).

"SCOOBY-DOO," starring Freddie Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar. Directed by Raja Gosnell (PG, 105 minutes). The old Hanna-Barbera cartoon was cheap, silly and occasionally charming in its blithe stupidity. This adaptation, combining live action with 3-D computer-generated animation, looks pretty expensive, and its stupidity is, for the most part, charmless. The human cast -- Mr. Prinze, especially -- does a good-humored job of sending up and paying homage to the old show, but its efforts are overwhelmed by a relentless pop music score, hideous special effects and a plot that violates all the rules of the old series for no good reason (Scott).

* "STUART LITTLE 2," with Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie and the voices of Michael J. Fox, Melanie Griffith and Nathan Lane. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 72 minutes). Determinedly unhip and utterly engaging, the sequel to "Stuart Little" (based on E. B. White's classic children's book) is even better than the original. Once again, the blend of live action and animation is virtually seamless. The characters are more sharply drawn than before, the newest addition being a duplicitous jewel-thieving bird (voice of Ms. Griffith) under the thumb of an evil falcon (James Woods). The role of the spoiled family housecat Snowbell (Mr. Lane) has been beefed up, and Mr. Lane turns the character's every peevish complaint into an amusing comic barb. The zesty action sequences find Stuart tooling wildly around New York and doing battle with the falcon in a model airplane. This is one family film franchise that respects the innocence of childhood without becoming saccharine (Holden).

* "SUNSHINE STATE," starring Edie Falco, Angela Bassett and Mary Alice. Written and directed by John Sayles (PG-13; 141 minutes). Mr. Sayles's panoramic exploration of life in Delrona Beach, a fictional Florida coastal town in the throes of development, is as rich and even-handed a mosaic of American life as any filmmaker has brought to the screen. The overlapping stories revolve around two families, one white, the other black, who are being pressured to sell their property to greedy developers. Among more than a dozen characters who cross paths in the course of the story, the most compelling are Marly Temple (Ms. Falco), a sardonic young woman who runs her family's motel, and Desiree Perry (Ms. Bassett), a former teenage rebel who returns after a 25-year absence to confront her straitlaced mother (Ms. Alice). More than a probing civics lesson, the movie takes the political and spiritual pulse of our restless national psyche (Holden).

* "TADPOLE," starring Sigourney Weaver, Aaron Stanford, John Ritter and Bebe Neuwirth. Directed by Gary Winick (PG-13, 77 minutes). At its most evocative, this fragile wisp of a movie with its moody, hothouse New York atmosphere suggests a contemporary descendant of "The Catcher in the Rye." Its protagonist (Mr. Stanford) is an intellectually precocious 15-year-old preppie who fancies himself in love with his 40-something stepmother (Ms. Weaver), who is unaware of his passion. A casual sexual encounter with her best friend (Ms. Neuwirth) over Thanksgiving break leads to an attempted cover-up that resembles a sophisticated French farce. Ms. Neuwirth practically steals the movie as the kindhearted but libidinous chiropractor with whom he enjoys a one-night stand. For all its delicate charms, the movie, shot in two weeks, is ragged around the edges and has a slack cynical ending (Holden).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Groovy, groovy, baby: Twins move in on Austin Powers (Mike Myers) in "Goldmember." (Melinda Sue Grodon/New Line Cinema) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ESPIONAGE (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); LITERATURE GENRES (68%); WRITERS (68%); MILITARY VESSELS (63%); NAVAL VESSELS (63%); NAVIES (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: MATT DAMON (78%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (73%); HARRISON FORD (58%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (53%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



35 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Dubya's Double Dip? 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If the story of the current U.S. economy were made into a movie, it would look something like "55 Days at Peking." A ragtag group of ordinary people -- America's consumers -- is besieged by a rampaging horde, the forces of recession. To everyone's surprise, they have held their ground. 
 But they can't hold out forever. Will the rescue force -- resurgent business investment -- get there in time? 
 The screenplay for that kind of movie always ratchets up the tension. The besieged citadel fends off assault after assault, but again and again rescue is delayed. And so it has played out in practice. Consumers kept spending as the Internet bubble collapsed; they kept spending despite terrorist attacks. Taking advantage of low interest rates, they refinanced their houses and took the proceeds to the shopping malls.
But predictions of an imminent recovery in business investment keep turning out to be premature. Most businesses are in no hurry to go on another spending spree. And those that might have started to invest again have been deterred by sliding stock prices, widening bond spreads and revelations about corporate scandal.
Will the rescuers arrive in the nick of time? Not necessarily. This movie may not be "55 Days at Peking" after all. It may be "A Bridge Too Far." 
A few months ago the vast majority of business economists mocked concerns about a "double dip," a second leg to the downturn. But there were a few dogged iconoclasts out there, most notably Stephen Roach at Morgan Stanley. As I've repeatedly said in this column, the arguments of the double-dippers made a lot of sense. And their story now looks more plausible than ever.
The basic point is that the recession of 2001 wasn't a typical postwar slump, brought on when an inflation-fighting Fed raises interest rates and easily ended by a snapback in housing and consumer spending when the Fed brings rates back down again. This was a prewar-style recession, a morning after brought on by irrational exuberance. To fight this recession the Fed needs more than a snapback; it needs soaring household spending to offset moribund business investment. And to do that, as Paul McCulley of Pimco put it, Alan Greenspan needs to create a housing bubble to replace the Nasdaq bubble. 
Judging by Mr. Greenspan's remarkably cheerful recent testimony, he still thinks he can pull that off. But the Fed chairman's crystal ball has been cloudy lately; remember how he urged Congress to cut taxes to head off the risk of excessive budget surpluses? And a sober look at recent data is not encouraging.
On the surface, the sharp drop in the economy's growth, from 5 percent in the first quarter to 1 percent in the second, is disheartening. Under the surface, it's quite a lot worse. Even in the first quarter, investment and consumer spending were sluggish; most of the growth came as businesses stopped running down their inventories. In the second quarter, inventories were the whole story: final demand actually fell. And lately straws in the wind that often give advance warning of changes in official statistics, like mall traffic, have been blowing the wrong way. 
Despite the bad news, most commentators, like Mr. Greenspan, remain optimistic. Should you be reassured?
Bear in mind that business forecasters are under enormous pressure to be cheerleaders: "I must confess to being amazed at the venom my double dip call still elicits," Mr. Roach wrote yesterday at cbsmarketwatch.com. We should never forget that Wall Street basically represents the sell side. 
Bear in mind also that government officials have a stake in accentuating the positive. The administration needs a recovery because, with deficits exploding, the only way it can justify that tax cut is by pretending that it was just what the economy needed. Mr. Greenspan needs one to avoid awkward questions about his own role in creating the stock market bubble. 
But wishful thinking aside, I just don't understand the grounds for optimism. Who, exactly, is about to start spending a lot more? At this point it's a lot easier to tell a story about how the recovery will stall than about how it will speed up. And while I like movies with happy endings as much as the next guy, a movie isn't realistic unless the story line makes sense. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); TAX LAW (60%); TERRORISM (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); SCANDALS (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; HOUSING 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



36 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Stock Exchange Abandons Plans for a New Headquarters Building Across the Street 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The chairman of the New York Stock Exchange said yesterday that the exchange was abandoning plans to build a new headquarters building across the street from its historic site at 11 Wall Street, effectively ending a deal that was aggressively pursued by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 But the chairman, Richard A. Grasso, added that the exchange was considering constructing a second trading floor within New York State but outside Lower Manhattan. Though it has not settled on a location yet, Mr. Grasso said the new site would be either within the five boroughs of New York City or elsewhere within the state. 
 Tension rose between the city and the exchange after the Bloomberg administration asked in May that the stock exchange double its investment in the plan for the new trading complex, to $900 million. The higher investment was required, administration officials said, because the proposed project would cost taxpayers too much.
The new site will be used simultaneously with the current floor, splitting the exchange's operations between two sites for the first time. 
"We are looking in the five boroughs as well as outside the five boroughs," Mr. Grasso said at a news conference yesterday. "It's important for me not to create a vision that we are about to drop anchor somewhere else."
Edward Skyler, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, said in a statement: "I can't imagine the New York Stock Exchange would abandon New York City in its moment of need. We remain hopeful that the stock exchange will stay on Wall Street, but should they insist on splitting up their operations, we have offered them many viable alternatives throughout the city."
After it was reported on July 24 that the stock exchange was considering moving some operations to Westchester County, Mr. Bloomberg said doing so would "let the terrorists win" by damaging the city's economy. Mr. Bloomberg said that "Brooklyn and Queens make an awful lot more sense" than Westchester for a new stock exchange location. 
The exchange's deal with New York City, which Mr. Giuliani tried to complete in his last days in office, had attracted criticism from some community and civic groups. The deal would have provided more than $1 billion in land, cash, tax breaks and other subsidies, making it one of the city's largest deals to keep a single company from leaving.
Originally, the plan had been for a 50-story tower to be built over the new trading complex. Rental income from the tower would have provided the city with the money to offset the cost of acquiring the property.
But after Sept. 11, Mr. Grasso considered that idea too risky. Apparently afraid that a tall tower connected to the stock exchange would be too easy a target for terrorists, Mr. Grasso said the previous deal was "not a saleable transaction."
Bettina Damiani, a project director at Good Jobs New York, a budget watchdog group that opposed the deal, said yesterday that the stock exchange pact "represented all that's wrong with corporate subsidies in New York." She said the deal was forged largely in secret and had already cost the city millions of dollars. "Kudos to Mr. Bloomberg for standing up to them," she said.
Under the 1998 deal with the Giuliani administration, the city committed to buying the block bound by Wall, Broad and William Streets and Exchange Place, at an estimated cost of $450 million.
The city is paying $3 million a month to hold onto the land for the project, has agreed to pay $160 million for an apartment building on the site, and made a $22 million down payment on the $220 million purchase of an office building at 23 Wall Street.
City officials would not comment last night on the status of the agreement to buy those buildings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); BONDS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TERRORISM (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) WYATT, EDWARD; GRASSO, RICHARD A; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



37 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Trash Plan Alters Mix Of Winners And Losers 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Garbage in New York City has always been about pain and gain. Some residents and neighborhoods are plagued by stink and noise and the other irksome effluvia of trash collection. Others see only clean streets, with the clanking machinery of transport and disposal all but invisible. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to refashion the system with giant trash compactors and barge-transport docks in each borough would reshuffle the winners and losers in New York's garbage game -- perhaps by a little, perhaps by a lot -- sanitation experts, environmentalists and city officials say. 
 The final tally of winners and losers and how much really changes depends on the many questions that remain about how the system would work, and whether it would work at all, the experts say.
On the surface, the winners look easy enough to spot. The system, once complete, would eliminate the need for truck-based transfer stations and the diesel exhaust that residents and environmentalists say have fouled neighborhoods like Williamsburg in Brooklyn, the South Bronx and Jamaica, Queens. Staten Island would be spared any hint of reopening the Fresh Kills landfill, which absorbed all the city's trash for decades before closing last year. The system of transfer stations would also be operated by the city -- not private contractors, as a previous plan called for -- thus signifying a victory for municipal workers.
Losers include Manhattan, which the Sanitation Department under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had found unsuitable for trash compacting because of space constraints at its three transfer stations. At least two of the three might have to absorb some nearby property to make the system work, say city officials and other people familiar with the sites. 
But the things that might not change at all are just as interesting. 
A plan devised by the Giuliani administration, for example, to ship more than half of the city's residential trash to Linden, N.J., for train transport was declared formally dead under the Bloomberg plan, which was announced on Wednesday.
But the Linden plan might live again. A spokesman for Allied Waste Industries, which was to operate the plant, said Linden would still be attractive, if only for its rail connections, and would probably be an element of Allied's bid to take the containers being packed in New York.
Some trash might also eventually find its way once again to a part of the city that nearly mutinied over garbage a decade ago, Staten Island. 
Although Staten Island officials say they have been promised by the Bloomberg administration that the borough will never again be formally designated by the city as a collection point for trash -- private companies, wherever they are, would be allowed to compete for contracts to transport the containers.
Both the mayor and the Staten Island borough president, James P. Molinaro, said, for instance, that if the Howland Hook Container Terminal, a big cargo handler not far from Fresh Kills, wanted to bid for some of the work -- loading the containers for transport out of the city by ocean-going barge, or perhaps eventually by rail -- it could.
Mr. Molinaro said that sealed containers would present no environmental insult or offense to residents and that jobs for the port were worth fighting for.
"If Howland Hook wanted to bid and won the bid, God bless 'em," he said.
The huge volume of commercial waste generated in New York, most of which comes from Manhattan's offices, restaurants and hotels, is another unknown that could tilt the winners-and-losers list. The city's sanitation commissioner, John J. Doherty, and Mr. Bloomberg both said they wanted to explore the possibility of having the retrofitted stations take residential trash -- their primary function -- and commercial waste too, which is disposed of by private companies using fleets of trucks.
If the new stations in Manhattan cannot be made big enough or efficient enough to take both kinds of garbage, however, the current system that so many people hate -- truck-based transfer stations in the poorer parts of Brooklyn and Queens -- could be here to stay, some experts say.
On the other hand, if the Manhattan stations could be adapted to take commercial trash, Mr. Doherty said, it might only be possible by operating around the clock, which would be another chit on the loser list for Manhattan, since that would mean more trucks coming and going. At the 91st Street site on the East River, which is one of the smallest of the city's transfer stations, the truck approach road goes right by a playground and recreation area called Asphalt Green that was filled with children yesterday. 
"If the best they can do is squeeze in just enough for the residential, then you've locked in a truck-based system for commercial waste in perpetuity," said Tom Outerbridge, a senior vice president of the Port Ivory Recycling and Transfer Alliance, which has proposed a large compacting facility in Staten Island, and so has economic reasons for questioning the mayor's plan.
Most environmental groups had kind words for the mayor, because his plan would reduce truck traffic, and because, they said, it would be fairer to poor parts of the city where the truck stations are now concentrated. But they said they were disappointed there was no formal link between fixing the export problem and restoring the recycling system, which was suspended for glass and plastic last month because of budget cuts. Without recycling, they said, the long-term volume of trash will only grow, whether the new system works or not.
"The community groups are clearly the winners here, but from an overall policy view, the plan falls short in that it doesn't incorporate a means of reducing the trash flow," said David Higby, the solid waste project director for Environmental Advocates, an Albany conservation group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LANDFILLS (79%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; BARGES AND SCOWS 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (52%)

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (52%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (52%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (52%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) JOHNSON, KIRK; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



38 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Israeli Troops Enter Nablus In Retaliation for Bombing
A large Israeli Army force swept into the Old City of Nablus to hunt for Palestinian militants in what appeared to be the start of military retaliation for a bombing by Hamas militants on Wednesday at Hebrew University in Jerusalem that killed seven people -- including five Americans -- and wounded more than 80. There were unconfirmed reports of two Palestinians killed in Nablus and a third, a member of Hamas, in a neighboring village. A1

President Bush reacted with outrage to the deaths of the five Americans, telling reporters he was "furious." A1

The chief Hamas spokesman, Abdel Aziz al-Rantisi, expressed regret for the deaths of Americans, but hailed the attack as a success for his group and predicted a continuation of the seemingly endless cycle of Israeli-Palestinian violence. A10

Iraq Invites Arms Inspector
The Iraqi government, unexpectedly reversing its refusal to deal with United Nations weapons inspectors, asked Secretary General Kofi Annan to send the head of the organization's inspection commission and his team of experts to Baghdad for talks. A4

2nd Day of Hearings on Iraq
A panel of experts on Iraq told a Senate committee there are no obvious successors to President Saddam Hussein, and that the Bush administration should prepare to help install and protect a pro-American replacement government if it decides to topple Mr. Hussein -- a proposition, they added, that would be long and expensive. A4

Long-Sought Power for Bush
The Senate agreed not to interfere in trade deals negotiated by the Bush administration and White House officials said they would immediately use the long-sought authority to accelerate stalled trade talks. A1

U.S.-Russia Talks Sour
American anger over Russia's construction of a nuclear power plant in Iran and its plans to build five more soured two days of talks between senior American and Russian officials. A3

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A14-17

Abducted Girls Rescued; Suspect Is Killed
Two teenage girls, kidnapped from a lovers' lane in Lancaster, Calif., were rescued 100 miles to the north, and the authorities said that officers killed the abductor. A14

Florida Elections, Redux
Katherine Harris, Florida's top elections official, resigned retroactively after missing a deadline to step down so she can campaign for Congress. A14

Anthrax Search
For the second time, federal investigators searched the apartment of a former Army scientist, Steven J. Hatfill, as part of their investigation into last year's anthrax mail attacks. F. B. I. agents examined his home and trash bins outside his building in Fort Detrick, Md. A18

Call for Privacy Protection
Two Democratic senators, Charles E. Schumer of New York and John Edwards of North Carolina, said that federal and state governments need to set standards for new surveillance techniques like video cameras and the monitoring of Internet use and called for a commission to propose such standards. A18

A Look At Regulating Marijuana
Nevada could become the first state to legalize marijuana and derive taxes from a regulated sales system if a November ballot initiative is approved. Nevada voters have already authorized the use of marijuana for medical reasons. A14

Defense Budget Increased
The Senate overwhelming passed a $355.4 billion military spending measure, showing strong support for the higher budget that President Bush sought for his buildup. A18

P.G.A. Scaps Plan for Aquifer
The Professional Golfers Association pulled out of a plan to build a golf resort atop the Edwards Aquifer, the main source of drinking water for San Antonio. A16

Panda Birthdays Celebration
The National Zoo in Washington celebrates the birthdays of its female, Mei Xiang, who just turned 4, and the male, Tian Tian, who will be 5 next week. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Considers Big Changes To Codes for High-Rises
New York City officials have created a sweeping plan to change codes governing how high-rise buildings are protected against fire and structural damage and how they are evacuated in an emergency. The plan is one of the first concrete signs that the collapse of the World Trade Center is going to transform the construction and operation of high-rises nationwide. A1

Teacher Layoffs in Yonkers
The Yonkers School District plans to lay off 112 teachers and 46 other district employees as part of a sweeping cost-cutting program that would eliminate bus transportation for high school students and some extracurricular activities. The layoffs would be the first major ones at the city's 41 public schools in recent years. B1

4 Charged in Identity Theft
Four people are to be arraigned in Albany County Court on state charges of operating a nationwide identity-theft ring that used office workers to steal names and Social Security numbers, officials said. Henry Cutts, 48, of the Bronx was named as the ringleader, said Eliot L. Spitzer, the New York attorney general. B2

Official Says Raids Hurt Inquiry
The Passaic County sheriff's handling of raids at the offices of a fake-document mill damaged a federal investigation of a man who had said he sold false identification to two Sept. 11 hijackers, a federal law enforcement official said. Mohamed el-Atriss, a 45-year-old native of Egypt, the suspected leader of the document ring, remains at large. B5

WEEKEND E1-28; 29-36

ESCAPES F1-8

OBITUARIES B7

Dolores Olmedo Patino
The Mexican art collector and one time model for Diego Rivera who turned her hacienda into a museum devoted to paintings by Diego Rivera, was 88. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

2 Charged in WorldCom Case
Two former WorldCom executives, Scott D. Sullivan and David F. Myers, were charged with orchestrating a multibillion dollar accounting fraud that helped bankrupt the company. A1

U.S. Backs Latin Bailouts
Days after suggesting he would oppose aid for battered South American economies, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill signaled that the United States was willing to back bailout plans for Brazil and Uruguay. C1

Firms Warned About E-mails
Regulators have told six investment firms that they may have to pay as much as $10 million in penalties for not keeping e-mail messages. C1

Market Falls on Economic News
Shares tumbled as new economic data showed that manufacturing was weaker than expected in July. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 229.97 points, to 8,506.62. C5

Vehicle Sales Rise 8.6% in July
Car and truck sales rose a surprising 8.6 percent in July, mostly because of incentives from automakers. General Motors reported a 23.9 percent increase and Ford reported a 1.5 percent rise. C3

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Hillary Clinton's "real world"; take our trash, please; judging on thin ice.

Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E27
Weather D8
TV Listings E28

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (83%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ANTHRAX (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (70%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); POWER PLANTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (62%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (55%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



39 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Senate Grants Bush Authority On Trade Deals 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The Senate agreed today not to interfere in trade deals negotiated by the White House, giving final approval to an accord requested by two presidents over eight years. Bush administration officials said they would immediately use the long-sought authority to accelerate trade talks stalled for years by partisan differences.
 In a last vote before leaving Washington's heat for an August recess, senators from both parties voted 64 to 34 to give President Bush the negotiating authority that members of Congress had denied to President Clinton for much of his tenure. Last week, a more divided House of Representatives agreed to the same bill, which now goes to the White House for the president's signature. 
 A majority of Democrats voted against the bill, and some senators expressed strong reservations about the effect that liberalized trade would have on the jobs of American workers. But after House and Senate negotiators agreed last week to include a package of subsidized health insurance and job-training benefits for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition, 20 Democrats joined 43 Republicans and one independent to give the Bush administration what it wanted.
The trade promotion authority, formerly known as the fast-track process, means that Congress has agreed not to change any deal the administration makes with a country or trading bloc. The five-year agreement, however, does not give the executive branch quite the free hand that presidents had before the last fast-track law expired in 1994.
Under the bill passed today, Congress can still veto any deal -- and many members said they hoped to do so if an agreement jeopardized American jobs -- but the administration can negotiate without fear that the details will later be changed.
"This gets us off the sidelines, where we've been for years, and gives us the opportunity to go on offense," said Donald L. Evans, the secretary of commerce, exultant at one of the administration's most decisive victories. "If you don't have the authority to negotiate, it's awfully hard to deliver an agreement."
President Bush, calling the action a "historic moment," congratulated supporters of the bill in a conference call after the vote.
"What you all have done is you have made it much more likely somebody is going to be able to find work, some farmer is going to be to sell his product," he said.
But opponents said that while the bill might be good for exporters, it could be damaging to textile and other manufacturing employees who will be undercut by foreigners who work for lower wages. Several senators said they were not satisfied that foreign trading partners would not employ child labor or abide by environmental standards, and others said that American negotiators have allowed countries to impose unfair tariffs that keep American products out of their markets.
"Every pound of T-bone steak that goes into Japan has a tariff on it, a 38.5 percent tariff," said Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, a major beef-producing state. "And this is after our negotiators reached agreement with them. Do our ranchers have a complaint? I think so, I believe so. Because the trade circumstances with respect to beef in Japan are not fair, and everyone knows it."
Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, said that the first trade agreements likely to be completed were with Chile and Singapore, possibly by the end of the year. The administration also hopes to have agreements with five Central American countries -- Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala -- by the end of Mr. Bush's term, he said. 
By 2005, he said, negotiators hope to complete work on the 34-nation Free Trade Area of the Americas, a plan first put forward in 1994 to integrate most of the economies of North and South America into a single free-trade bloc. It is similar in concept to the NAFTA agreement with Mexico and Canada. President Bush also wants an agreement soon with Morocco, in hopes of supporting its economic and political reforms, Mr. Zoellick said.
Although the final bill dropped the Senate proposal allowing a Congressional veto over any weakening of laws prohibiting the dumping of foreign goods, it does require the administration to consult with Congress on such laws, and theoretically allows Congress to halt any deal under negotiation. But both sides said they believed the bill would actually result in a closer relationship between the White House and Congress on trade issues.
"Given the trust in this delegation of authority to the administration," said Max Baucus, a Democratic trade supporter from Montana, "Congress expects the administration to honor and respect that trust by working closely with members on these issues."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CHILD LABOR (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002 



40 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: California Examines Ways to Manage Energy 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
Two years after electricity shortages sent prices soaring and blackouts rolling across the state, California, the standard-bearer for power deregulation gone wrong, is just beginning to figure out how its power market will operate beyond the next few months.
 In mid-July, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission disclosed its new plan for the wholesale power market in the Western states. On Wednesday, the commission released its broader-reaching recommendations for markets nationwide. 
 In California, the commission will continue to control bids to supply power, which it began doing last summer during the state's energy crisis. After Sept. 30, the ceiling on bids will rise to $250 a megawatt-hour from $91.87. 
The commission adopted other measures that it said would prevent generating companies from withholding power to inflate California prices, but some doubted the commission's ability to control market players. Representative Peter A. DeFazio of Oregon, the ranking Democrat on the House Resources subcommittee on water and power, called the new rules arcane and the commission "toothless" for its lack of authority to punish wrongdoers with fines.
The commission also recommended a change in management at the Independent System Operator, the nonprofit company that runs California's grid and oversees power trading, to further separate control from the state. Experienced managers from fields like banking and communications, as well as energy, should be members of a new governing board for the operator, said Nora Mead Brownell, one of the commissioners. The current board consists of a staff member from the governor's office, a lawyer from a consumer lobby, the president of an association of Silicon Valley manufacturers and is headed by Michael A. Kahn, a top litigator who is an ally of the governor.
California policy makers frowned on the commission's initial ruling. In a statement issued on July 17, Gov. Gray Davis decried the higher price limits. "California has been buying all the power it needs this year in the $20-to-$50 range on the spot market," Governor Davis, a Democrat, said. "The price caps make no sense and this order just invites more mischief by energy generators."
Mr. Kahn said the commission's orders "do a disservice to the people of California and could cost consumers billions of dollars." He asserted that changes in the governing board were unnecessary and potentially harmful and that, on balance, federal regulators had offered proposals that would weaken protections against market manipulation. In its ruling in mid-July, the commission rejected the Independent System Operator's proposal for a mechanism to impose stricter controls when power prices appeared to differ strongly from costs of generating electricity.
Mr. Kahn also called the commission rash for insisting on changes before the utilities recover from their financial straits and the state's long-term contracts for power expire. "Obviously, the cloud of the generators in Washington, and the Bush administration, is so strong that they had to do this quickly and precipitously," he said.
The reaction from power generating companies struck a sharp contrast. "The governance issue is probably the single most important," said Steve Huhman, a director of regulatory affairs for one energy company, the Mirant Corporation. "At least, we'll feel that the decisions are justified by science and not by politics."
The commission gave generating companies another victory by requiring California to create incentives for generating and transmitting companies to build new capacity in high-demand and bottleneck areas on the electricity grid. Nationwide recommendations from the commission included similar provisions.
In releasing its proposed rules for wholesale power markets, the commission focused on what it said were the advantages of using one system for the whole country: less possibility of manipulation and more access to cheap power for customers in underserved areas. 
But not everyone who watched the West's crisis unfold thinks that the new rules will work. "They know we have a dysfunctional system," Mr. DeFazio said. "They're going to attempt to layer a hugely complicated market-based system on top of that to solve the problems in the current market-based system. I fear that it will be more manipulable, more volatile, because of the changes."
With the future of the wholesale market in California somewhat clearer, the state government is left to work with utilities to ensure that reasonable retail rates accompany a constant surplus of power.
Economists have argued that customers would have to face more realistic prices for power. During the state's power crisis, California's utilities ran up huge debts because they could not pass wholesale price spikes on to bill payers. Making retail prices more flexible, these economists argue, would encourage consumers to use electricity sparingly at peak times. 
But there is a crucial corollary, said Frank A. Wolak, a professor of economics at Stanford University and chairman of the market surveillance committee for the Independent System Operator. Mr. Wolak wants consumers to have two options: to buy power by the hour at close-to-market prices or to protect themselves against volatile prices by contracting for kilowatt-hours in advance.
How would consumers figure out exactly how much power they might need for the next month, six months or a year? 
"You're going to have to be a bit more intelligent about your energy consumption," he said. "But just like with your cellphone minutes, you're going to have to say, 'O.K., I'll get it pretty close to right.' "
The commission's newly proposed rules would encourage long-term contracts between generating companies and utilities, but utilities will have to decide whether to make such contracts available to consumers.
Robert D. Glynn Jr., chairman of the PG&E Corporation, which owns one of California's three giant utilities, agrees with Professor Wolak on the need for forward markets, but he doubts that real-time pricing for consumers is realistic.
"I've never believed," Mr. Glynn said, "that there's going to be a person or a group or a family sitting on a sofa watching a TV show, and up in the corner of the screen is a little meter, and someone jumps up and says, 'Look, the power price has just dropped, let's turn the washer on.' "
Yet of the two strategies, real-time pricing looks more likely to become a reality than allowing consumers to buy power in advance, said Paul Clanon, the director of the energy division of the Public Utilities Commission. That would still leave consumers vulnerable to short-term volatility in power prices.
With much unresolved in the market, generating companies are biding their time before committing to building enough new plants to ensure that California can keep prices in check.
"With all these things that have been going on out here, any rational investor is going to think twice," Mr. Huhman said. "Clearly we need to see a more stabilized environment and know what the risks are."
Governor Davis has spent plenty of time in his campaign for re-election emphasizing the 6,400 megawatts in new capacity that generating companies have built during his term, thanks in part to the lucrative long-term contracts. The federal commission, however, pointed out in its ruling that plans for 20,000 megawatts of capacity had been canceled or delayed since January 2000. 
New plants have given the state enough capacity for the next few years, said Severin Borenstein, director of the Energy Institute at the University of California. The respite will not last, though.
"Over any multiyear time period, California depends on the creation of new power supplies every year," he said. "It is important that there be projects coming through the queue."
Elena Schmid, the vice president for corporate and strategic development of the Independent System Operator, conceded that California needed to settle its plans for the future before the new capacity would appear.
"The environment in California now is not an inviting environment for people to come in," she said. But she remained hopeful that the problems were being sorted out, if slowly.
"You can't live through what we've lived through and not learn something," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elena Schmid, the vice president for corporate and strategic development of the Independent System Operator, said California needed to settle its plans for the future before new capacity would appear. (John Decker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); POWER FAILURES (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LITIGATION (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) ENERGY AND POWER; CALIFORNIA; FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: PETER A DEFAZIO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



41 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Employment Data Raise Questions About Economic Recovery 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Determined to hold down labor costs in a weak and uncertain economy, the nation's employers slashed hours in July, cut overtime and limited hiring to a bare minimum, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
 The latest data raised fresh questions about the faltering economic recovery, suggesting that growth will be modest at best. 
 The unemployment rate remained at 5.9 percent, the same as June, as 86,000 people who might have been listed as unemployed and job hunting dropped out of the labor force instead. The number of temporary workers, which had been growing in earlier months and usually rises as the economy is beginning to improve, shrank in July. 
Total employment, based on a survey of companies, rose a bare 6,000 -- an almost imperceptible gain. Still, July was the third consecutive month in which employment went up instead of down.
"The real question I have is whether the labor market is beginning to turn around or whether the stock market will short-circuit that process," said William Dudley, director of domestic research at Goldman Sachs. "Alongside the net hiring in July, there were more than enough signs that were disturbing."
Employers cut the average workweek by an unusually large three-tenths of an hour, to a flat 34 hours. Not since the Labor Department began to track the average workweek in 1964 has it been as short, except in two unusual months: January of 1996 when a blizzard struck the East Coast, and October of last year, in the aftermath of Sept. 11.
The glum labor report, which helped send the stock market down again, came as a number of economists moved from expecting a strong recovery in the second half of the year to concern that the economy might face a longer period of weak growth. Reinforcing that impression, the Commerce Department reported yesterday that factory orders fell sharply in June, indicating a setback in industrial output after several months of improvement.
Consumers, however, continued to sustain the recovery, as they have for months. Their spending rose in June by the largest amount in two years and personal incomes increased by a similarly smart amount, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
But here, too, the signals were mixed. While the Commerce Department's report covers an array of personal income, even counting as income the health insurance premiums that companies pay on behalf of their employees, the Labor Department focuses only on the average hourly wage of the nation's 90 million workers outside the ranks of management. It rose in July by 4 cents, to $14.79 an hour, but from a 12-month perspective, the annual increase through July was 3.2 percent. That has edged down from 4 percent in January. 
Manufacturers, construction companies and state and local governments all shed workers -- a total of 53,000, seasonally adjusted -- but none as many as the temporary help industry. There, employment declined by 35,000.
As the economy recovers from recession, employers often hire temporary workers before committing themselves to permanent hires, and that had seemed to be happening. Until July, temporary employment had risen for four consecutive months, a total increase of 145,000 jobs. The setback last month made a considerable dent in that gain.
"If the August employment report turns out to be similar to July's, we would be worried that the economy was at best in a sideways waffle," said Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis forecasting and research firm. 
By that, he meant an annual growth rate for the economy of 1 percent or less, far below the 3 percent or more that most economists consider necessary to generate jobs month after month and keep unemployment from rising. The government reported on Wednesday that overall economic activity in the second quarter advanced at an annual rate of just 1.1 percent, down from a 5 percent rate in the first quarter.
The Bush administration gave the July job numbers an optimistic interpretation. "The good news is that July's unemployment rate was essentially unchanged from the previous month," the secretary of labor, Elaine L. Chao, said in a statement. She also said that long-term unemployment -- people out of work and collecting jobless pay for 15 weeks or more -- had declined in July "after rising continuously for more than a year."
But several of Wall Street's forecasters saw enough bad news in the employment report to predict, for the first time, that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates by the end of the year. Until now, they have argued that the Fed would probably postpone a rate increase until late in the year, when they expected the economy to be growing strongly enough to make it necessary for the Fed to begin moving to keep inflation under control.
Economists at Goldman Sachs even went so far as to predict yesterday that before the end of the year the Fed would cut the key short-term rate it controls by three-quarters of a percentage point, to only 1 percent. "The economy is growing well below trend," Mr. Dudley said. "In that environment, does the Fed want to risk a Japanese-style outcome? No. They'll take out insurance to prevent that."
For all the gloom in the jobs numbers, there were significant strengths. Employment rose in retailing, wholesaling, transportation, mortgage banking, real estate, auto repair and, above all, health services, which generated 29,000 new jobs in July. Total employment in the nation held at 130.8 million. Nearly 1.8 million jobs had been lost from March of last year through last April, and the rebound since then is 94,000, including 66,000 in June.
The relatively large June rise came as a result of a revision announced yesterday. The original estimate had been 36,000.
Many economists see the meager job growth since April as evidence of the determination of employers to hold down labor costs. More evidence came in the rise of 191,000 part-time workers in July who sought full-time hours and could not get them.
Such data does not offer a good omen for the third quarter, says Peter Hooper, chief domestic economist for Deutsche Bank North America. "Total hours worked in July were less than the average worked in the second quarter," he said. "We started the third quarter at a lower level than the weak second quarter."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tanisia Baker, left, and Danielle Moore filled out job applications at the Hispanic Job and Career Fair Wednesday in New York. About 1,000 job seekers attended the fair, at which 70 employers were offering 1,500 jobs. (Stephen Chernin/Getty Images) ChartData released yesterday indicate that the economy may be slowing . . .(Graph tracks average number of hours worked per week from 2000-2002 and the change in total nonfarm payroll) . . . which some traders feel makes an interest rate cut more likely.(Graph tracks current federal funds target rate 1.75% and federal funds futures contract (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in July"UNEMPLOYMENT Graph tracks civilian unemployment: 5.9 percent BY DEMOGRAPHICWhite: 5.3Black: 9.9Hispanic*: 7.6Men 20 and over: 5.2Women 20 and over: 5.2Teenagers (16-19): 17.7 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 8.3Lost job 4.6Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 2.4New to labor market: 0.6 EMPLOYMENTHousehold survey: 134.0 millionGraph tracks nonfarm payroll survey: 130.8 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)JuneNonfarm: 130.8Goods: 23.9Services: 106.9Agriculture: 3.1 JulyNonfarm: 130.8Goods: 23.8Services: 106.9Agriculture: 3.3 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent) JuneWork force: 62.7Labor force (workers and unemployed): 66.6 JulyWork force: 62.6Labor force (workers and unemployed): 66.5 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3) Chart: "Factory Orders"Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Jan. 2001-June 2002) Monthly ChangeJune: -2.4%May: +0.6April: +0.7 (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



42 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Russia Says It May Reconsider Its Nuclear Plant Deal With Iran 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Russia, under pressure from the Bush administration, indicated today for the first time that it was prepared to reconsider plans to continue building nuclear reactors in Iran that American officials fear could be used in a covert program to build nuclear weapons.
 After a third day of meetings here in Moscow with American officials, the minister of Russia's nuclear energy agency, Aleksandr Y. Rumyantsev, said in a statement that Russia would take into account "political factors" before deepening its assistance to Iran, according to a statement released by his ministry. 
 The Russian statement, muted as it was, came at the end of sometimes pointed talks here between Russian energy and security officials and an American delegation led by Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. 
Last week, on the eve of the delegation's visit, the Russian government announced that it planned to build as many as five more nuclear reactors in Iran after completing an $800 million, 1,000-megawatt reactor on the Persian Gulf, at Bushehr, as early as next year. The plans were included in a document outlining a 10-year program of economic and scientific cooperation between Russia and Iran.
Today Mr. Rumyantsev repeated Russia's insistence that its cooperation with Iran was limited to civilian development of nuclear energy and not the development of nuclear weapons. But he appeared to take note of the objections raised by Washington. The statement suggested that Russia was prepared to abandon any further cooperation with Iran on nuclear programs, even though Russian officials have said all week that they have the right to continue the project at Bushehr, as well as other peaceful nuclear energy programs.
"As to the prospects of cooperation with Iran in the peaceful use of nuclear energy," the statement read, "the draft of the long-term program for the development of trade, economic, industrial and technological cooperation between Russia and Iran through 2012 only mentions the existing technical possibilities. Their implementation depends on many factors, including political factors."
On Thursday, Secretary Abraham accused Iran of "aggressively pursuing nuclear weapons" and bluntly called on Russia to cease all assistance, including the completion of the plant at Bushehr. "No one should be under any impression that there is anything but the utmost concern on this question on our part," Mr. Abraham said, "and those concerns have been frankly and directly conveyed during our meetings here."
With its statement today, Moscow appears to be trying to play down the divisions in the interests of the closer Russian-American cooperation now evident in a variety of areas. Among these are the protection of the world's energy supply at a time of uncertainty over the prospects of an American war against Iraq.
The issue remains sensitive, though. Mr. Rumyantsev canceled a news conference today, and Mr. Abraham, who met with him for a third day, made no public remarks. The statement said discussions would continue when Mr. Rumyan-tsev and Mr. Abraham meet in September at the conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iran has maintained that the Bushehr plant is a civilian project and has allowed international inspectors from the atomic energy agency to visit the site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); IRAQ WAR (67%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ATOMIC ENERGY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

ORGANIZATION: OECD NUCLEAR ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MEYERS, STEVEN LEE; RUMYANTSEV, ALEXANDER (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (55%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



43 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Most Bets Lie On a Decline In Fed Rates 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
With the economy looking less healthy than before, Wall Street is beginning to expect that the Federal Reserve Board will cut interest rates again within the next few months in an effort to stave off a double-dip recession.
 "Fed officials are likely to ease" in the final quarter of this year, Edward McKelvey, senior economist for Goldman, Sachs, said yesterday. He said he expected the federal funds rate, the key rate that the Federal Reserve controls, to fall to 1 percent by the end of the year, down from 1.75 percent now. 
 That is more than most expect, but in the futures market yesterday -- where speculators can place their bets on what will happen to that rate -- the December futures forecast a decline to 1.5 percent by year-end. It is the first time that the market has forecast a quarter-point cut from the current level, already extremely low by historical standards. 
By contrast, in late March, when the economy seemed to be growing well -- and the Dow was 2,000 points higher than it is now -- the futures market was forecasting substantially higher interest rates by year-end, an increase of at least 1.5 percentage points.
The Federal Reserve's open market committee meets on Aug. 13, and the market consensus is that it will not move then. But the futures market indicates that there is a better than 50 percent chance that the Fed will cut rates by a quarter point at its September meeting.
Some think such a move should be made quickly. Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig Securities, said yesterday that the revisions to earlier economic data announced earlier in the week showed that the economy "was never as healthy" as it appeared to be, and that it now "looks rather peaked." He said he thought the Fed should lower rates at the August meeting.
The stock market weakness yesterday was concentrated in economically sensitive stocks. Within the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 2.3 percent, the biggest stock declines came from United Technologies, 3M, General Motors, Dupont and other companies vulnerable to a slowdown. By contrast, the three Dow stocks that did the best yesterday -- Philip Morris, Johnson & Johnson and Procter & Gamble -- make products for which a recession would do little to hurt demand.
The consensus forecast still calls for the economy to avoid recession, but the recent news, which has included surprisingly low factory orders, stagnant employment growth and a slowdown in nonresidential construction, has increased the worry level.
"The odds of a double dip are increasing, but I'm not convinced yet," said John Vail, chief strategist of Mizuho Securities USA. "My forecast is for slow, sluggish growth."
David Wyss and Rick McDonald, economists at Standard & Poor's, said one disturbing factor in yesterday's employment report was a downturn in hiring for temporary jobs. "Through the first half, temp jobs led the economy," they wrote in a report. "We argued this showed that employers were uncertain, and hiring temps rather than permanent workers. In July, they didn't hire either."
Nonetheless, they expect the economy to stay out of recession and the Fed to keep rates steady for the rest of this year. 
The major stock market averages remain above the lows they reached in late July, however, when there was great hand wringing over a lack of investor confidence. Since then, there have been two very strong days, which were not wiped out by yesterday's sharp declines. 
Moreover, not all the economic data has been weak. Auto sales rebounded in July, helped by a new round of zero-percent financing. Strong auto sales in late 2001 helped keep that year's recession from being a deep one, to the surprise of many economists.
Politically, a new recession starting now could be dicey for President Bush, who no doubt recalls that the recession that began in July 1990 and ended in February 1991 ended up playing a significant role in his father's failure to win re-election. 
Since World War II, there have been four recessions that included parts of a presidential election year or the year before one. In each subsequent election the incumbent party lost the White House. Besides 1992, they were 1960, when John F. Kennedy was elected over Vice President Richard M. Nixon; 1976, when Jimmy Carter defeated President Gerald Ford; and 1980, when Ronald Reagan defeated President Carter.
On the other hand, recessions early in presidential administrations do not seem to be very harmful, perhaps because they can be blamed in part on predecessors, or perhaps because recoveries tend to be well along by the time the next presidential election occurs. The presidents Dwight Eisenhower, Nixon and Reagan were each re-elected despite recessions that ended during their second year in office.
One problem for presidents is that the National Bureau of Economic Research, which officially certifies recessions, is not known for speedy conclusions. It has yet to determine when the last recession ended, although most economists say it was in the October-to-December period of last year. Its announcement that the 1990-91 recession was over came after Bill Clinton had won the 1992 election.
All that makes it likely that the White House will, at the least, not be upset if the Fed does decide to cut rates further. And further worrying about economic weakness could lead some economists to call for additional tax cuts to provide more money for consumer spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); GM (NYSE) (52%); UTX (NYSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



44 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
StockGauges Fall 2% or More On Jobs Report

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday on reports that employers added few jobs in July and on weak outlooks from Disney and other companies. The three major market gauges were down 2 percent or more on the day and gave up all or most of their gains for the week.
 The latest economic data is raising doubts among investors about the durability of the economic recovery from the recession that is widely said to have ended late last year. A weak recovery or another recession -- which analysts refer to as a double dip -- would make a rebound in corporate earnings difficult and would undermine the outlook for stocks. 
 "This has to go down as a very disappointing week," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany.
Before the stock market opened yesterday, the government reported that just 6,000 new nonfarm jobs were created last month, far below forecasts of 60,000 to 70,000 jobs. Earlier in the week, reports showed that the manufacturing sector cooled last month and that the overall economy grew at an anemic annual rate of just 1.1 percent in the second quarter.
The news ended a rally that began in the middle of last week to lift stocks off their five-year lows. The sharp gains, which continued through Wednesday, convinced some analysts that equities were at or near their bottom.
Because markets often bounce around considerably when the bottom is near, it is hard to conclude what the ensuing sell-off of the last two days portends.
"If job growth falters, then income growth will be insufficient to generate consumer spending anywhere near the pace that is consistent with a sustained economic recovery," said David Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley. He said that the sharp drop in the average work week was a big surprise and that the soft data on hours worked "point to declines in both industrial production and housing starts" in July.
James Pritchard, a church administrator in Memphis who moved some of his portfolio back into stocks in June, said, "It will be a bit up and down until we see a sustainable recovery." 
Caution about the economic outlook was heightened during the day when Goldman, Sachs senior economist Edward F. McKelvey sent an e-mail message to clients that said the firm was cutting its economic forecast for the second half of the year and predicted that the Federal Reserve would cut its short-term interest rate target by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 1 percent, by the end of the year.
During the recent stock market rout, investors were repeatedly reassured by President Bush, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and some Wall Street strategists that the economy was sound and the economic recovery well under way.
"We thought there was a disconnect between the stock market and the economy and once stocks focused on the fundamentals again, they would rally," Mr. Johnson said. "But the stock market was sending us an accurate signal that either the economy has hit a soft spot or is in for a sinking spell or recession."
In his message, Mr. McKelvey said that "although Fed officials undoubtedly share our view that double dip is not the central case, we believe they will want to take out more insurance against that possibility."
A rally in the last 40 minutes of trading, including a 100-point surge in the Dow Jones industrial average, helped mitigate the day's pain. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 193.49 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 8,313.13, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 20.42 points, or 2.3 percent, to 864.24. The Nasdaq composite index was down 32.08 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,247.92. For the week, the Dow was up 0.6 percent and the S.& P. 500 index was up 1.3 percent. But the Nasdaq was down 1.1 percent.
The weaker economic news and the rout in the stock market sent investors into bonds, driving prices higher and yields, which move in the opposite direction, sharply lower. That drop in rates is one positive for the economic outlook. Lower rates can encourage borrowing and the refinancing of home mortgages, both of which can free up money for consumer spending and help offset the drag of falling stock prices.
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped to 4.29 percent, down from 4.39 percent on Thursday. The price rose 24/32, to 104 16/32. The 10-year note has a big influence on home mortgage rates and this decline, if it holds, should push them lower. The average national rate on a 30-year Freddie Mac home mortgage was 6.43 percent this week, not far from the lowest level in three decades.
James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, said the sharp decline in interest rates made him less worried about the outlook. In addition, he said that the stock market had already been signaling that the economy would have no growth for a quarter or two. So, he concluded, "I think it's positive that the stock market is essentially up over the last two weeks even though the economic reports are getting weaker."
Mr. Greenlaw of Morgan Stanley is not talking recession either. But he said the new data was troubling enough that Morgan Stanley was reducing its economic growth forecast for the second half of the year. Just weeks ago, that forecast was for 4 percent growth, at an annual rate. Mr. Greenlaw said that a report on Monday would cut that pace to at least 3 percent.
A sharp outflow of money from stock mutual funds in June and July shows that investor confidence has been shaken. According to AMG Data Services, July outflows will exceed $30 billion, the worst month since AMG began collecting data in 1992. Although AMG reported net inflows of $2.2 billion in the week ended July 31, almost all of that money -- $2.1 billion -- went into international or global equity funds, which means many investors were avoiding American stocks.
Among the stocks leading the market lower was Walt Disney, which said late Thursday that its fiscal third-quarter earnings fell 7.1 percent. The company also said that bookings at its theme parks for the fourth quarter were down 10 percent. Shares of Disney declined $1.52, or 9 percent, to $15.31.
Travelers Property Casualty fell $1.10, or 7.3 percent, to $14, after Citigroup said it would distribute most of its controlling stake in the company, keeping 9.9 percent of the stock. Travelers went public in an initial public offering in March, at $18.50.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WORK WEEK (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



45 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Israel Scours Nablus In Retaliation for Blast
Israeli soldiers searched Nablus for explosives laboratories and suspected militants, retaliating against what it called a possible source of the bomb that killed seven people at Hebrew University. The army said it exploded laboratories in two apartment buildings. Elsewhere, Israel destroyed homes of two relatives of suicide attackers and prepared to banish brothers of two assailants to Gaza. A1

Iraq Arms Offer Greeted Warily
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, welcomed an Iraqi offer for talks in Baghdad on arms inspections, but indicated that Saddam Hussein was far from complying with Security Council requirements for lifting sanctions. A8

A self-governing Kurdish territory in Iraq's north, protected by British and American warplanes, that has rebelled against the Iraqi government since 1991 claims that Jund-ul-Islam, a militant Islamic group in an armed stronghold outside Halabja, may have ties to Al Qaeda. A8

The United States does not know how advanced Iraq's weapons programs may be and some Republican senators suggest they want more intelligence before supporting an invasion. A8

U.S. Resumes Aid to Indonesia
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the Bush administration would resume direct military training aid to Indonesia for the first time in a decade to bolster antiterrorism efforts. The administration will provide $4 million initially and about $50 million over the next two years. Aid was ended because of human rights abuses by Indonesian troops. A3

Russia Reconsiders Reactors
Russia, under pressure from the Bush administration, indicated for the first time that it was prepared to reconsider plans to continue building nuclear reactors in Iran that American officials fear could be used to covertly build nuclear weapons. A5

World Briefing A4

NATIONAL A9-12

Judge Orders Government To Name Most Detainees
A federal judge ruled that the Bush administration had no right to conceal the identities of hundreds of people, mostly immigrants, who were arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks and ordered that most of their names be released within 15 days. A1

Rumsfeld Tightens Hold
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is moving to strengthen his control over the military's intelligence apparatus, setting up a potential struggle for dominance of the American intelligence community. A1

West Nile Kills 4 in Louisiana
Health officials said that 58 residents of Louisiana had become ill from the West Nile Virus and four of them had died in recent days. It is the largest outbreak since the virus was first detected in the United States, in New York City in 1999. A1

Cardinal Law Testifies
Cardinal Bernard F. Law of Boston testified in a lawsuit brought by people who say they were abused by a pedophile priest, that despite statements he made suggesting a settlement had been reached, he had meant to imply that the agreement was tentative. A9

Bush's 9/11 Memorial Plans
President Bush will travel to New York, Pennsylvania and the Pentagon on Sept. 11 to mark the one-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks, the White House announced. A11

Emission Penalties Increased
The Bush administration has approved new penalties for the makers of diesel engines that do not reduce their emission pollutants. A11

Shuttle Fleet Being Repaired
The space shuttle fleet, grounded since mid-June because of miniscule fuel-line cracks, should be flying again by the end of next month, NASA officials say. A11

NEW YORK/REGION A11-12

Draft Report Criticizes Fire Dept. on Sept. 11
The Fire Department's response to the attack at the World Trade Center, while brave and aggressive, was hampered by failures in communication, lapses in discipline and a lack of coordination with the Police Department, according to a draft report by an independent consultant. A1

City Proposes a Land Swap
New York City officials have proposed a deal with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in which the city would give the land beneath La Guardia and Kennedy Airports to the Port Authority, and take control of the World Trade Center site, according to an official. This would reduce the financial headaches for those in charge of rebuilding Lower Manhattan. B1

Judge Plans to Plead Guilty
Victor I. Barron, the former Brooklyn Supreme Court justice who was charged with accepting a bribe in January, has agreed to plead guilty and spend at least three years in prison. B1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Implants May Cause Illness
The Food and Drug Administration is investigating what appears to be an increase in meningitis among deaf patients who have had cochlear implants surgically inserted into their ears to help them hear. A9

ARTS B7-16

The Whitney Receives Huge Gift
The Whitney Museum of American Art has been given what is believed to be the largest donation of postwar American art to any museum. A1

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A13

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Jobless Rate Holds Steady
The unemployment rate remained at 5.9 percent in July, the Labor Department said. The data raised fresh questions about the faltering economic recovery, suggesting that growth will be modest at best. C1

Late Rally Helps Stem Losses
The Dow fell 193.49 points, or 2.3 percent, to 8,313.13, after a 100-point surge in the last 40 minutes. The S.& P. 500 lost 20.42 points, or 2.3 percent, to 864.24, while the Nasdaq dropped 32.08 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,247.92. C1

Ireland in Sight as a Tax Haven
Efforts by American companies to save on taxes by reincorporating in Bermuda and other offshore tax havens are nearly dead. But United States corporations are still bristling at the way they are taxed, and another island, Ireland, may soon emerge as the next battleground. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: A time for candor on Iraq; Congress's mixed handiwork; Daisy Hernandez on art for commuters.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); VIRUSES (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (68%); JUDGES (67%); CHILD ABUSE (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); WEST NILE VIRUS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (95%); INDONESIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



46 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Clouds Gather Over Baseball's Pristine Scene

BYLINE:  By JACK CURRY 

 BODY:
TWO major league superstars were sitting in the grass at Miller Park in Milwaukee watching the All-Star Game festivities last month and talking about everything they saw. There was baseball in front of them, the sun was shining, and laughter completed the picturesque scene. The only things missing were a picnic basket and a blanket.
 But the scene quickly veered away from peacefulness when Lance Berkman turned to the always-chatty Curt Schilling and asked him what was going to happen in the always uncertain labor situation. Berkman wanted to know if Schilling felt the players would wind up on strike this season. A television camera secured the conversation and Schilling's stern response. 
 "We better not," Schilling said.
Three simple, revealing words: We better not. The players keep repeating that they do not want to strike, even as they have held countless meetings in which Aug. 16 has been mentioned as a potential strike date. The players rightly feel the threat of a strike is the only leverage they have, because the owners can lock them out after the season and implement new work rules. If the players do not act, they believe the owners will force-feed them a radically changed system.
Still, a strike, however logical the players argue it might be, would be another devastating punch to a sport that is floundering as it tries to keep its product viable. Attendance is down, payrolls are up, distrust of Bud Selig and Donald Fehr is constant, and disgust with the financial heft of George Steinbrenner is rampant. There are too many problems in baseball. Another strike would make arena football in August suddenly seem appealing. Losing any games would be a fiasco.
"Disappointing wouldn't even measure it," Schilling said as he sat in the third-base dugout before the Mets' game against Arizona was rained out at Shea Stadium last night. "That's not even a word on the scale if there were to be a work stoppage."
Schilling claimed that every major leaguer felt the same. As both sides continue negotiating, it is intriguing to wonder how the talks might be influenced if a marquee player suddenly voiced a differing opinion about the need for a strike. Someone like Schilling. He has thrust himself into the forefront before, including sending an emotional electronic message, posted on ESPN.com, for those affected by the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
Not now, fellas, Schilling could say. We must find a solution. We cannot put the game on hold with the economy staggering and with the one-year anniversary of the attacks looming. The union has long been united, so it is a fantasy to think any players would publicly denounce a strike. The owners would probably pounce on it as a weakness instead of viewing it as a building block. But it would be interesting.
"It's not going to happen," Schilling said. "It's very simple. If the owners are truly bargaining in good faith, we're close to a deal. The difference is minimal when you're talking about a $3 billion industry. If we strike, it would be because the owners want to implement their own work system."
Even though a player might wish he could say no to a strike, do not expect a single defection. Besides, no owner has scampered to a microphone to say that his side must keep games this season and the next. The owners are obsessed with enforcing a new system.
Everyone loses if there is a strike: owners, players, fans. Someone might win in the long term, and that is what this disagreement is over, but in the short term no one wins.
Schilling would suffer. He is a gaudy 18-4 with a 2.83 earned run average and a major league-leading 219 strikeouts for the defending World Series champions and could become the first pitcher since 1990 (Bob Welch, 27-6) to win 25 games. Schilling should make 11 more starts, and that would give him no chance for 30 victories, which last happened for Denny McLain (31-6) in 1968.
But even the thought of 30 in August is surprising. If there is a strike in two weeks and the season never resumes, Schilling might not even get to 20 for the second straight season. Selfishly and statistically speaking, a strike could harm the 35-year-old Schilling more than other players.
"My team is in first place and I've made more money than I'm ever going to spend," he said. "Why would I want to strike? But it has nothing to do with what I'm going to make. It has to do with how the game has been regulated and how the rules should apply."
Schilling was the first Diamondback on the field yesterday and he stood in foul territory and watched the Mets take batting practice. One of the best pitchers in the majors looked like any other fan waiting for an autograph or a foul ball. It was another nice scene. With luck, those scenes will continue. With luck, the season will continue. It better.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Curt Schilling's bid to become the first 25-game winner since 1990 is at the mercy of labor negotiations.; Curt Schilling, left, congratulating Byung Hyun Kim after Kim got the final two outs to ensure Schilling's 18th victory as Arizona beat San Diego, 4-3, last Saturday. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); STRIKES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) BASEBALL; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); STRIKES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: CURRY, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



47 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Master Storyteller or Master Deceiver? 

BYLINE:  By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
HE was a spellbinding storyteller, a figure of mesmerizing charm. The South African-born writer Sir Laurens van der Post, who died in 1996 at 90, sold millions of copies of his novels and nonfiction books, including "The Lost World of the Kalahari," about the plight of the South African Bushmen, which became a popular BBC television series. 
 Van der Post was a Jungian mystic and a spiritual adviser to Prince Charles; according to British newspapers, he taught the prince to talk to his plants. In 1982 Charles made him godfather to his heir, Prince William. Van der Post was also a close friend of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, exerting an influence on her policy in South Africa. 
 He had a following in the United States as well. For several years, he gave the Advent sermon at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York. The year he died, he attended a celebration of his work in Boulder, Colo., and 4,000 people came. 
But according to a new biography, "Teller of Many Tales: The Lives of Laurens van der Post," by the British journalist J. D. F. Jones, published here last month by Carroll & Graf, van der Post was a fraud who deceived people about everything from the amount of time he actually spent with the Bushmen to his military record during World War II. His claim that he had brokered the settlement in the Rhodesian civil war was a lie as was his insistence that he was a close friend of Jung's, Mr. Jones says. 
And when it came to women, der Post was a bounder. In the early 1950's, when he was 46, he seduced the 14-year-old daughter of a wealthy South African winemaking family, who had been entrusted to his care during a sea voyage. She became pregnant, and although he sent her a small stipend, he never publicly acknowledged the daughter born of the relationship.
"I discovered to my astonishment that not a single word he ever wrote or ever said could necessarily be believed," Mr. Jones said in an interview from his home in Somerset, England. "He was a compulsive fantasist." 
When "Teller of Many Tales" was published in Britain last year, under the title "Storyteller: The Many Lives of Laurens van der Post," it created a mini-sensation. The book had a gleeful reception in many British newspapers. The reviewer for The Economist of London called the book "hilarious." The Daily Telegraph said it was "bold, brilliantly researched and fascinating," though a critic for The Spectator dissented, calling it "an utterly ruthless hatchet job." Lucia Crichton-Miller, van der Post's daughter, also offered a passionate defense of her father. "I think it a profoundly dishonest book," she said from London. "The worst is the malign selection of evidence."
Mr. Jones knew van der Post slightly, he said, and had been an admirer of his early work. "You have never in your life met a man so charming," he said. "It was staggering." When van der Post was in his late 80's, Mr. Jones proposed writing his biography, but van der Post didn't want one while he was still alive. After his death, Mr. Jones approached Ms. Crichton-Miller, who had been a colleague of his at The Financial Times of London, where he was an editor. Ms. Crichton-Miller agreed to cooperate with him and provided access to her father's archives. 
The lies began with the stories of his childhood, Mr. Jones said, in books like "Venture to the Interior," his 1951 best-selling account of his travels in Nyasaland (today Malawi), interwoven with Jungian mysticism. Van der Post claimed descent from minor Dutch aristocracy, and said that his father had been a senior statesman and a high-ranking barrister, a "kind of prime minister." In fact, Mr. Jones says, his father came from a family of minor distinction and was a lower-status law agent who processed routine legal documents. 
In "The Lost World of the Kalahari" and other writings, van der Post claimed to have had a Bushman, sometimes a half-Bushman, nanny, from whom he derived his special, instinctive knowledge of the group. In fact, Mr. Jones says, there is no record of such a person, and van der Post did not encounter the Bushmen, the indigenous people of South Africa, until he was an adult. He spent about two weeks with them despite assertions that he lived among them. In his writings, van der Post depicted the Bushmen as primitive, instinctual, childlike, whereas white men were logical, reasonable, intellectual. In "The Lost World of the Kalahari," published in 1958, van der Post claimed he had discovered the Bushman paintings of the Tsodilo Hills, when in fact they had been well-known to Europeans for close to 50 years, Mr. Jones writes. 
Van der Post also lied to the women in his life, Mr. Jones says. He juggled affairs with numerous women simultaneously, keeping them secret from one another. In 1934, he settled in England with his first wife, Marjorie, and his son, John, on a farm probably bought for him with money from the Queen Mother's cousin Lilian Bowes Lyon, with whom he was having a relationship. 
In 1936, the same year his first daughter, Lucia, was born, van der Post met Ingaret Giffard on a boat to South Africa. In 1938 he sent Marjorie and his two children to South Africa with the argument that war was imminent. He didn't see his children for nearly 10 years. He and Marjorie eventually divorced, and he married Ingaret after the war. They lived together even after she became ill with dementia in later life, though for 30 years he also had a mistress, Frances Baruch.
In books about his war experiences, and his autobiography, van der Post cast himself as a war hero. His trio of autobiographical novellas, "The Seed and the Sower," about being a prisoner of war in a Japanese prison camp was the basis for the 1983 David Bowie movie "Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence."
In 1942 van der Post, then an acting captain, was captured by the Japanese in Java. In books and speeches, he claimed he volunteered for an extra beating to save his fellow prisoners, but that account was also disputed in written statements by some of his fellow prisoners, said Mr. Jones. Van der Post also said that after the Allied victory, he had been "military governor of Batavia," in Java, now part of Indonesia, but he was not, Mr. Jones says.
Regarding Mr. Jones's assertions about her father's war record, Ms. Crichton-Miller said: "All I can say is that throughout my life I have met people who were in the prisoner-of-war camp in Java who said they did not know how they would have lived without my father."
And as far as the amount of time her father actually spent living with the Bushmen, said Ms. Crichton Miller, "J. D. F. misses the point of my father. What my father did was give poetic force to the Bushmen."
"He was not pretending to be an anthropologist or a scientist," Ms. Crichton Miller said. "I think there is no doubt that he didn't want to spell it out that he had been there only a few weeks." 
She also disputed Mr. Jones's assertion that her father had not been an intimate of Jung's, pointing to the observation of a member of Jung's inner circle, Barbara Hannah, that van der Post and Jung had been very close friends. As for Mr. Jones's allegations about her father's relationship with a 14-year-old girl, "I'm afraid I think that's true," Ms. Crichton-Miller said. "He was not a saint. He hurt people. He hurt me. But by God, he was fascinating." 
Bonny Kohler-Baker, whom van der Post seduced and abandoned when she was 14, is the mother of van der Post's other daughter. She now lives outside New York City under a different name, and would not discuss the book. But her daughter, Cari Mostert, in a phone interview from the Eastern Transvaal in South Africa, said she had been brought up to believe that her maternal grandmother was her mother and that her mother was her sister. She said her grandmother had told her when she was 10 that van der Post was her father. Ms. Mostert described meeting her father for the first time when she was 12, when she and her mother had surprised him in Los Angeles, where he had a speaking engagement: "I was crying, and he was crying."
Ms. Mostert said she had confronted him once again, as he arrived in Johannesburg airport, and he had said that her grandmother had lied in saying that she was his daughter. She claimed that she had sent her father over 50 letters, but that he had never replied. "I thought he is such an upright, a noble human being," Ms. Mostert said, "if he would only understand . . . " Her voice trailed off. 
In the 1970's van der Post met Prince Charles through mutual friends. In 1987 he took Charles on a four-day trip to the Kalahari, telling the prince, "This is the real Africa." Mr. Jones states that sometime in the mid-70's, Charles began having psychoanalytic treatment with Ingaret, who was a Jungian analyst, and then with van der Post's friend Dr. Alan McGlashan. Diana, Princess of Wales, was also treated by Dr. McGlashan during the troubles in her marriage, Mr. Jones writes. 
Charles told van der Post his dreams, and van der Post drafted some of his speeches. When van der Post died, Charles set up an annual lecture in his honor.
But van der Post's most significant influence occurred during the South African struggle over apartheid, Mr. Jones says. Van der Post hated Nelson Mandela and championed the Zulu chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, whom he saw as a foil for the African National Congress's Communist beliefs. He arranged meetings between Chief Buthelezi, Charles and Mrs. Thatcher. Mr. Jones argues that van der Post had helped convince Mrs. Thatcher to oppose sanctions against the South African government and not to embrace Mr. Mandela.
As van der Post lay dying, Mr. Jones says, Charles visited him. At his memorial service, Lady Thatcher read the lesson and Chief Buthelezi spoke. Nonetheless, Mr. Jones writes, there were apparently some who doubted van der Post even when he was alive.
Mr. Jones says that when a doctor who knew him was asked the cause of his death, the doctor replied, "He was weary of sustaining so many lies."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sir Laurens van der Post, rear, second from right, in 1982 with other godparents of Prince William, elder son of the Prince and Princess of Wales. (Ron Bell/PA Photo); Laurens van der Post in 1947 in Java, where he claimed he was "military governor of Batavia." (pg. B7); J. D. F. Jones, whose new book calls Laurens van der Post a "compulsive fantasist," at his home in England. (Jay Williams)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: PRINCE WILLIAM (87%); PRINCE CHARLES (70%); PRINCESS DIANA (55%) SMITH, DINITIA; VAN DER POST, LAURENS; JONES, J D F 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: TELLER OF MANY TALES: THE LIVES OF LAURENS VAN DER POST (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



48 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Expanded Trade Powers for Bush May Help Singapore

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Few people have more reason to be pleased about President Bush winning expanded powers on trade than George Yeo, Singapore's minister of trade and industry.
 For the last 21 months, Mr. Yeo, a bookish trade official, has led Singapore through nine rounds of negotiations for a free-trade agreement with the United States. Mr. Bush's new trade promotion authority, which Congress reinstated on Thursday for the first time since 1994, makes it easier for the two sides to have a deal completed by the end of this year. 
 With the new authority, "we will be able to close remaining outstanding issues," the ministry said in a statement today.
Singapore and Chile are expected to be the first countries to win free-trade agreements. If Singapore and Washington reach an agreement and the Bush administration passes it to Congress for ratification, legislators will have 90 days to approve it -- without amendments.
"I believe that both Singapore and Congress would like to have some successes in the trade area quickly," said Landis Hicks, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore.
Negotiating a deal with tiny Singapore, with no textile industry or agriculture, may seem relatively unremarkable next to wrangling concessions from Japan or Europe. 
But as Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, has been quick to point out, Singapore is America's 10th largest export market. American companies have more than $23 billion invested here.
The deal will clearly have more impact on Singapore. By some estimates, the duties saved under the deal would swell Singapore exports to the United States by 7 percent a year, adding almost a percentage point of additional annual economic growth.
Singapore needs the help. After shrinking 2 percent last year, its economy is on track for 4 percent growth this year. But its critical electronics industry is still shrinking and unemployment is hovering just below 15-year highs.
With China luring an increasing amount of investment and trade away from Southeast Asia, Singapore has been anxiously seeking more far-reaching economic ties. It has already signed free-trade deals with Japan and New Zealand.
Just what separates the United States and Singapore is something neither side has disclosed. But there are possible areas of disagreement.
American lawyers, for example, want Singapore to open its legal services so they can practice law and represent clients in Singapore's courts. Bankers want Singapore to open its financial industry so they can establish more branches and reach out to more of Singapore's savers. Software companies want Singapore to make using pirated software a crime. Drug companies want protection for their test data. 
Some experts doubt that Singapore will yield enough to make a big difference. "I have to be somewhat skeptical if there will be a big impact on the economy," said Desmond Supple, managing director at Barclays Capital in Singapore. 
Another sticking point concerns rules of origin. Singapore is a major transshipment point for goods coming from as far as the Suez Canal to the South China Sea. In April, Mr. Zoellick and Mr. Yeo agreed that some products from two Indonesian islands near Singapore should be included in the agreement as an economic balm for Singapore's giant, impoverished neighbor. But how the agreement will ensure that products from other Asian nations, seeking to exploit that advantage, are not shipped through Singapore for export to the United States remains unclear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Singapore's financial district dominates the waterfront. After shrinking 2 percent last year, Singapore's economy may grow 4 percent this year and could benefit from a trade agreement with the United States. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); TRENDS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); LAWYERS (61%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); RETAILERS (59%); TEXTILES (51%) SINGAPORE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



49 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Bush Will Travel to the 3 Sites To Commemorate Sept. 11 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 2 

 BODY:
President Bush will travel to New York, Pennsylvania and the Pentagon on Sept. 11 to commemorate the anniversary of the terrorist attacks, the White House announced today.
 In New York, Mr. Bush will visit ground zero in Lower Manhattan. In Pennsylvania, he will visit the field in Shanksville where United Airlines Flight 93 went down. The stops, including one at the restored Pentagon in Northern Virginia, will be part of an extensive day of commemoration that Mr. Bush's aides and speech writers are planning. 
 A spokeswoman for the White House, Claire Buchan, announced the plans on Air Force One as Mr. Bush flew for the second time this summer to his parents' vacation house here. On Saturday, the president is to attend a fund-raiser for Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, traveling by boat. Otherwise his sole public plans for a three-day weekend include golf and, possibly, fishing.
On Monday, Mr. Bush leaves for Pittsburgh, where he will meet the nine coal miners who were rescued last Sunday. On Tuesday, he will sign a trade bill at the White House, have his annual physical examination and leave for what aides call a 25-day "working vacation" at his 1,600-acre ranch in Crawford, Tex.
To underscore the nature of the vacation, Ms. Buchan announced political and policy trips that Mr. Bush will make from the ranch, where the temperatures typically exceed 100 degrees in the summer. The president, she said, will use Crawford as a base to travel to Arkansas, California, Iowa, Michigan, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota and Wisconsin. In all, she said, he will visit 15 cities to talk about education, the economy and trade.
Mr. Bush will also be the host of an economic conference on Aug. 13 at Baylor University in Waco, Tex. The next week, as the administration continues to debate when and how to invade Iraq, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld will visit. Later, officials expect, Mr. Bush will meet President Vicente Fox of Mexico at the ranch.
The White House announced that Mr. Bush would meet President Jiang Zemin of China in October, also at the ranch.
Before Mr. Bush left Washington this morning, he promoted what he said were his administration's recent legislative accomplishments, particularly a bill that gives him the right to negotiate trade agreements without Congressional interference. The Senate passed the bill on Thursday. 
"It goes to show that when we put our partisanship aside, when people stop all the yelling and hollering and finger pointing and say, 'How can we help the American people?' we can get a lot done in this town," Mr. Bush said.
In Maine, Mr. Bush is staying at the Bushes' century-old summer house on Walker's Point, a promontory into the Atlantic, without his twin daughters or Mrs. Bush, who is in Texas. Mr. Bush's parents and brother Marvin and sister Dorothy are here. Last month, Mr. Bush celebrated his 56th birthday here. This time, Ms. Buchan said, there is no particular occasion for the visit. 
"The president," she said, "is a family man." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (69%); AIRLINES (57%); COAL MINING (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



50 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: City Proposes a Land Swap To Control Trade Center Site 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
New York City officials have proposed a swap in which the city would take over the World Trade Center site in exchange for giving the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey the land beneath La Guardia and Kennedy Airports, an official involved in the rebuilding effort said yesterday.
 The Port Authority has not yet responded to the proposal, which was made informally through a third party in the last week, according to the official. There is no certainty that an agreement will be reached. 
 Such a deal, if completed, would give New York City and New York State officials control of the process of rebuilding Lower Manhattan without worries about whether revenues from commercial space at the trade center would satisfy the financial needs of the Port Authority or New Jersey. Those needs were at the heart of the six initial land-use proposals for the site, made in late July, which were greeted with strong criticism by New Yorkers from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on down. 
Under the proposal, the Port Authority would gain permanent rights to the operation of the airports, which are two of its largest sources of income and would otherwise be subject to a significant increase in lease payments in the coming years.
The Port Authority currently pays $3 million annually for the land leases at the two airports, but negotiations that are under way to extend the Port Authority's lease, which ends in 2015, are likely to increase that amount substantially.
Any potential deal is likely to be weeks if not months away. If an agreement is reached, it will have to be approved by the governors of New York and New Jersey and, possibly, by each state's Legislature. In addition, the financial terms of a proposed deal are likely to present sticking points. 
But several officials from the city and the two states who have heard about the proposal said yesterday that they were intrigued by it. The idea has provoked enthusiastic discussion among some of the civic and urban planning groups that have been closely following the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan.
"I think it's a brilliant idea," said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban planning organization. "It is in the regional interest, and it would fix a big problem for both agencies by clearing up the very confusing lines of authority downtown and out at the airports."
Spokesmen for the city and the Port Authority would not comment directly on the proposal yesterday. A spokesman for Mayor Bloomberg, Edward Skyler, said, "A lot of interesting ideas are being circulated, and the mayor is interested in exploring all of them."
A spokesman for the Port Authority, Peter Yerkes, said the negotiations between the city and the authority regarding the airport leases "are ongoing and have been positive."
But, he said, those talks have not yet involved discussion of the land swap. "The focus of the talks has been centered on reaching an agreement on updating the leases under the same basic structure we currently have," Mr. Yerkes said.
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said the governor did not yet know enough about the proposal to be able to comment. "If this is something that the city wants to sit down and talk about, we're willing to listen," Mr. McKeon said. 
Officials in the office of Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey declined to comment.
While the proposal is still in an embryonic stage, the official who has been involved in the rebuilding effort said the deal's financial details "can work out in such a way that it is a win-win for everybody."
The Port Authority, the official said, "gains a new lease on life" by ridding itself of the need to make expensive annual rental payments to the city for the right to operate the airports. A renegotiated lease for the airports would probably require the Port Authority to pay more than $60 million annually.
In the long term, that could benefit New Jersey officials too, supporters of the idea say, because owning the airports would give the Port Authority an added measure of stability.
The city, meanwhile, would gain control of the trade center site, and Mr. Pataki "will look like he is acting in the interest of the city of New York," the official said. 
The governor is likely to retain a hand in the planning and rebuilding of the trade center because federal money for the recovery is funneled through the state. That would mean that the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation or some similar agency would probably continue to oversee the rebuilding process.
Since Sept. 11, the Port Authority's control of the World Trade Center site has been an increasingly irritating thorn in the side of many city and state officials who are involved in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan.
The six initial land-use plans, which attracted almost universal scorn when they were released last month, were created under requirements set by the Port Authority. The agency said all of the designs had to replace all of the office, retail and hotel space that was destroyed at the trade center. The resulting drawings were criticized as trying to force too many buildings onto the site, which was also required to have a memorial.
Turning the trade center site over to the city would eliminate the Port Authority, and therefore New Jersey, from the planning process. But it would also open the rebuilding project to many other government regulations that could significantly slow the progress of downtown's recovery.
For example, city property is subject to the Uniform Land Use Review Procedure, which dictates a review process involving hearings and approvals by the local community board, the borough president, the City Planning Commission, the City Council and the mayor. 
In addition, the site would be subject to federal environmental reviews. Because the Port Authority is an interstate agency operating under consent of Congress, it is not subject to those federal statutes.
One reason that the rebuilding of the former 7 World Trade Center was able to begin so quickly was that it was not subject to those regulations.
If a swap is agreed upon, it is not clear whether it will be an even exchange or if the deal will require the payment of cash or other compensation from one party to another.
The Port Authority currently derives $130 million in annual revenue from the lease of the World Trade Center site. From that amount, it has been paying about $28 million annually to the city in lieu of property taxes. Those payments were the result of an agreement struck when the trade center was created to compensate the city for the loss of taxes on the 16 acres of trade center property. That land was privately owned and condemned by the city and then turned over to the Port Authority.
At the least, a land swap involving the trade center and the airports would represent a remarkable reversal in relations between the city and the Port Authority. 
The Port Authority has leased the land and operated the airports since 1947. The current leases are set to expire in 2015, and the city and the Port Authority have waged many battles over whether or not the leases will be extended.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani consistently denounced the Port Authority and its operation of the two airports. Mr. Giuliani said that the Port Authority diverted $150 million annually in city airport revenues into other projects that mainly benefited residents of New Jersey.
Although the Port Authority said it was willing to renegotiate its lease for the airports and pay far more than its current $3 million in annual rental payments, Mr. Giuliani said he wanted the city itself to control the airports.
But by the spring of last year, Mr. Giuliani conceded that he could not persuade Gov. George E. Pataki to help the city wrest control of the airports from the Port Authority.
Mr. Bloomberg's approach to the Port Authority has been much different. During his mayoral campaign, Mr. Bloomberg said he did not necessarily believe that the Port Authority should be ousted from its role operating the airports. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York City is considering giving the La Guardia Airport site, above, and the Kennedy Airport land to the Port Authority in exchange for the World Trade Center site. The airports' land is now leased to the authority. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B2) Chart: "LEDGER: Budget Breakdown"Before it was destroyed, the World Trade Center was a major part of the Port Authority's income. 2002 BUDGETED REVENUEIn millions World Trade Center complex: 4.9% - $130 La Guardia Airport: 9.2 - 243 Kennedy International Airport: 24.7 - 655 Newark International Airport: 21.0 - 555 Tunnels, bridges and bus terminals: 28.0 - 741 PATH railroad: 3.4 - 91.0 Port commerce: 4.6 - 122 Other: 4.2 - 110 (Source: Port Authority)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); AIRPORTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); TERRORISM (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (61%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



51 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Mixed Handiwork 

 BODY:
Americans who have grown accustomed to bad news may be surprised to find that Congress, now off for summer vacation, actually racked up some real accomplishments this year. On Thursday, for instance, the Senate gave final passage to a bill authorizing President Bush to engage in new global trade talks. No president has had such authority since it expired in 1994. A sweeping corporate responsibility law has also been enacted. The list of unfinished business is long, but voter impatience could force more action in the fall. 
 Since Sept. 11, President Bush and the House Republicans have pretty much set the agenda. But in a power shift, recent weeks have belonged more to the Democrats in the Senate. They called the tune on corporate responsibility, throwing Republicans onto the defensive. The G.O.P. charges that Tom Daschle, the majority leader, is obstructing the establishment of a Homeland Security Department, but that's not so. Until two months ago, Mr. Bush and the Republicans were doing all they could to block the Democrats from passing just such a bill. 
 Mr. Daschle's performance in the spotlight has been shaky. He failed to round up the votes to pass a bill providing prescription drugs for the elderly. He could not win passage of an overall budget resolution to set spending levels for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The worst part, for him, was that these defeats came as much at the hands of Democrats as Republicans. Several Democrats defected from the party's own version of the prescription drug benefit, and on the budget, too many Democrats were prepared to bolt from their party's anti-tax-cut line and endorse a Republican drive to expand and extend the Bush tax cuts of last year.
Republicans will be campaigning this fall on the idea that "Daschle Democrats" have been both weak and obstructionist. In fact, many of the areas where progress is snagged -- welfare, energy, overhaul of the bankruptcy laws -- are instances in which blocking a bad bill is much more useful than doing something just for the sake of looking productive. There is no reason, on the other hand, not to pass election reform. It would be a disgrace, after the Florida debacle of 2000, for Congress not to fix the way our national elections are run, though House and Senate versions remain caught up in a fight over how much to require the states to do.
When legislators tour their districts, geared to sell their versions of who killed the prescription drug bill, they may find that what most concerns their constituents is their eroding economic security. Polls show voters' attitudes shifting rapidly, though perhaps they are not yet ready to throw incumbents out en masse. Among lawmakers these days there is a mood of deep wariness. The best way for them to work out their angst is to come back soon and get more accomplished.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); AGING (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (57%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); TOM DASCHLE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



52 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: A Time for Candor on Iraq 

 BODY:
With all their talk about forcing a regime change in Iraq, President Bush and his aides are creating the 2002 equivalent of the 1939 "phony war" in Europe -- the period following the German invasion of Poland when everyone knew war was coming but the guns remained silent. The anticipation of war stirs uncertainty and puts people on edge, which is the way the country, already shaken by Sept. 11, is feeling these days. It is time for Mr. Bush to level with the nation about his intentions and to talk candidly about why he feels military action against Iraq may soon be necessary, and what the goals, costs and potential consequences of a war would be.
 The Senate Foreign Relations Committee's hearings on Iraq this week usefully addressed some of these issues. But the testimony came from outside experts. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and other top officials continue to dodge serious questions about Washington's plans. The by-now-familiar refrain that Mr. Bush has not yet made any decisions about Iraq may literally be correct, in the sense that he may not yet have approved a war plan, but it smacks of the semantic games that administrations often play to disguise very real preparations for war. 
 One argument for war often floated by officials ought to be disposed of quickly. Military action against Iraq may be justified, but not in response to the terrorism of Sept. 11 or Al Qaeda. To date there is no reliable evidence that Baghdad had any serious connection to either. The dangers posed by Iraq have more to do with protecting American interests in the Middle East than with warding off fresh terrorist attacks on American cities. 
Iraq is believed to have secret stores of the kind of biological and chemical weapons that terrorists would love to get their hands on. But so do Russia and other countries. While a future link between Iraq and terrorism cannot be excluded, there appears to be no evidence so far that Baghdad means to share its deadly arsenal with others. 
The primary challenge from Iraq comes in the Mideast. Saddam Hussein has already invaded Kuwait, sent Scud missiles against Israeli cities and used poison gas against Iran and Iraqi Kurds. With a rebuilt arsenal of unconventional weapons, Iraq could try to gain control over the Persian Gulf oil fields on which Western economies depend. It could also terrorize Israel. Those are challenges that would justify American military action if they could not be reliably prevented by other means. 
America's goal should be to ensure that Iraq is disarmed of all unconventional weapons. That is what the cease-fire resolution ending the Persian Gulf war called for, and it has still not been achieved. To thwart this goal, Baghdad expelled United Nations arms inspectors four years ago. Now the U.N. is again demanding that Iraq agree to unimpeded inspections. Baghdad's reply so far has been ambiguous. Removing Mr. Hussein from power may be the only way to assure that Iraq fully disarms, but every available diplomatic option should be exhausted first.
If there is no alternative to war, Americans must weigh what kind of combat they are prepared to wage. The Afghanistan model, which relied on a small American force of Special Operations troops working with local anti-government militias, may not be applicable to Iraq, where opposition groups are weak and Mr. Hussein commands the loyalty of more than 100,000 elite troops. It might also leave Washington with insufficient leverage over leaders who succeed Mr. Hussein. A much larger American force might assure a quicker and more thorough military victory, but at the risk of substantial American fatalities. Whatever tactic is used, there may be no way to deter Iraq from using unconventional weapons against American forces. That alone is a good reason for weighing other options.
Military victory in Iraq would leave Washington temporarily responsible for guiding the future of a major Arab oil-producing country in the heart of the Middle East. The first challenge would be preventing Iraq's dissolution. The country's volatile mix of Shiites and Sunnis, Arabs and Kurds has been held together only by brute force. A splintered Iraq would tempt Iran, frighten Turkey and perhaps lead to regional war. Remaking Iraq through prolonged American military occupation, on the model of postwar Germany, seems unrealistic. Yet too rapid an American pullout could allow a new strongman to emerge, rearm and seek revenge. 
When America is attacked, as on Sept. 11, the logic of military response is straightforward and the country goes to battle united and prepared for any necessary sacrifices. A pre-emptive war against Iraq, aimed at heading off a future threat, would be different. It must be preceded by democratic deliberation and informed decision-making. There may be a compelling case to be made for war with Iraq. The administration has not yet made it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); TESTIMONY (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INSPECTIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); AL-QAEDA (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (64%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002 



53 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: MOVIES: CRITIC'S CHOICE 

BYLINE:  By Anita Gates

 BODY:
NICK BROOMFIELD ran into trouble when he tried to screen his documentary KURT AND COURTNEY (1998) at the Sundance Film Festival. Courtney Love's lawyers wanted the film suppressed, possibly because it seems to suggest that she had something to do with the death of her husband, Kurt Cobain, the young king of grunge rock. Cobain died in 1994, apparently from a self-inflicted shotgun wound, but this film finds several people (including Ms. Love's father) who aren't convinced it was suicide. Writing in The New York Times, Janet Maslin called the film "a memorable group portrait." Needless to say, Ms. Love did not cooperate with the filmmakers, but Mr. Broomfield does finally track her down, confront-ing her as she's receiving an award from the American Civil Liberties Union - Monday at 12:55 and 10:25 p.m. on Sundance. 
 If Jane Horrocks is known to American audiences at all, it's as Bubble, the aptly named office assistant on the BBC's hedonistic sitcom "Absolutely Fabulous." In Mark Herman's LITTLE VOICE (1998), she's a completely different animal. Ms. Horrocks plays the title character, a pathologically shy young woman with a remarkable talent. She can sing exactly - yes, exactly - like Judy Garland, Marlene Dietrich and Marilyn Monroe. The plot (her mother and a sleazy agent exploiting her for financial gain) is tired, but the music is almost impossibly on target and Brenda Blethyn and Michael Caine make a dream supporting cast - Wednesday at noon and 8 p.m. on Oxygen. 
 Nothing goes right for Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) when he sets out to meet his girlfriend's family in Jay Roach's lovable comedy MEET THE PARENTS (2000). His marriage proposal is interrupted by a cellphone call, the airline loses his luggage, and his prospective father-in-law (Robert De Niro) turns out to be a retired C.I.A. agent who enjoys administering lie-detector tests. Over the weekend, Greg meets his girlfriend's perfect ex-fiance, loses the family cat, backs up the sewage system and sets the house on fire. The moral: When everything has gone wrong and you just don't care anymore, courage is born. The sequel, with all major cast members returning, is planned for 2003 - Monday at 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Saturday at 1 and 10 p.m. on HBO.
 Jeanne Jordan grew up on a small family farm in Iowa. When it ran into serious financial trouble, she and Steven Ascher recorded the process in the Oscar-nominated documentary TROUBLESOME CREEK: A MIDWESTERN (1996). The Jordans finally decide to auction their farm equipment, their animals and their Ethan Allen furni-ture to pay the bills. The story has Norman Rockwell written all over it, so Ms. Jordan's sometimes sardonic voice-over is welcome - Saturday at 2 p.m. on IFC. 
 You could make a career out of spotting Alan Cumming in his early nerd roles. There he is in David Mirkin's ROMY AND MICHELE'S HIGH SCHOOL REUNION (1997), playing the former loser who arrives at Sagebrush High's 10-year reunion in a private heli-copter. Lisa Kudrow and Mira Sorvino play the adorable bimbos determined to impress their old classmates, even though they don't have glamorous jobs (one is a receptionist, the other an unemployed sales clerk) or boyfriends. They decide to pose as businesswomen and tell people they invented Post-Its. "Like, I thought of them," says Ms. Sorvino, "but you thought of making them yellow" - Sunday at 8 and 10 p.m. on ABC Family.
 Anita Gates

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russ and Mary Jane Jordan in "Troublesome Creek: A Midwestern." (West City Films); Blythe Danner and Robert De Niro in "Meet the Parents" (2000). (Universal Studios/DreamWorks) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); FAMILY FARMS (69%); CATS (66%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (58%); ROBERT DE NIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



54 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
More Cruise Ships Are Calling in Alaska

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
CRUISE lines moved a record number of ships to Alaska for this summer season after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, anticipating less demand for Mediterranean itineraries. But local merchants in Alaska are wondering if the influx of passengers will translate into profits for them.
 Twenty-five ships are visiting Alaska this summer, including some that have never cruised in Alaskan waters, some that have not been there in years and the new 2,600-passenger Star Princess, a ship so large it cannot squeeze through the Panama Canal. Altogether, the ships will sail 431 cruises in Alaska this year, a 9.1 percent increase over the 395 last year. 
 With more than 663,000 cruise passengers in Alaska last year and some 730,000 expected this year, according to the North West CruiseShip Association, the Inside Passage, Glacier Bay and Denali National Park are becoming almost as familiar to cruise passengers as are the Bahamas, Bermuda and Cancun.
The number of cruise ships in Alaska this year is a result of their corporate owners pulling them out of the Mediterranean and the Baltic after Sept. 11. Travel agents have reported that Alaska-bound passengers from much of the rest of the country say they feel safer flying to West Coast ports, including Vancouver, to board ships that will stay in American waters than they do heading to foreign ports to cruise overseas.
Yet, despite expecting more tourists this year, merchants in Alaskan ports worry that visitors' expenditures will not keep pace because of the weakened economy.
"We don't know if gift shops will sell more product, if flight-seeing operators and guide services will sell more trips, or how many cruise operators will book add-on tours into the interior," said Jim Jager, a consultant for the North West CruiseShip Association. Because ships had to discount many of their fares to attract bargain-hunting passengers, he added, "the jury is still out on what this season's passengers are going to do while they are in the state."
Sally Smith, the mayor of Juneau, said she expected a slight increase in the number of visitors to the city and the state. But she added that when she paid a visit in mid-May to welcome Holland America's 1,380-passenger Amsterdam on its first visit to Juneau this year, she was pleased to discover that a big majority of the 1,380 passengers had signed up for add-on packages. Holland America has six ships visiting Alaska this summer, the same as last year, as does Princess Cruises, and they will operate 116 and 106 trips, respectively.
The year has not always looked so promising. A survey in March by the Alaska Travel Industry Association found that early cruise bookings throughout the state were off by an average of 24 percent from the same time last year. Most summer cruises to Alaska and elsewhere are typically booked by January or February.
Nancy Parrott, the leisure market manager for Azumano Travel, of Portland, Ore., one of the biggest travel and cruise agencies in the Pacific Northwest, said that bookings for Alaska got off to a slow start this year. But it has been coming on fast since then, she said, "and we're now experiencing a very strong Alaska season, even a little above last year."
Tourism is Alaska's second biggest money maker, after oil and gas, and cruise ships are a major reason why. A study of the economic impact of the cruise industry on Alaska, commissioned by the International Council of Cruise Lines, found that in 2001 the industry accounted for $550 million in direct spending and more than 14,500 jobs.
Mayor Smith is particularly proud that the cruise industry in Alaska, some of whose ships were convicted of dumping polluted water and chemicals, appears to have cleaned up its act considerably. Princess ships visiting Juneau now shut down their diesel generators while docked and hook up to cables from a power station that provides the ships with hydroelectric power.
That has reduced residents' complaints about visible smoke emissions from visiting ships. Meanwhile, the amount the ships pay for the hydroelectric power goes into a fund that has the net effect of lowering energy bills paid by Juneau customers.
Last July, Alaska became the first state to regulate water pollution from cruise ships. The law permits state inspectors to fine shipowners for violations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TERRORISM (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (68%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH WEST CRUISESHIP ASSN 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (77%) ALASKA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



55 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut; 
Vacancies Up in Fairfield, but So Are Building Prices

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
COMMERCIAL real estate in Fairfield County is going through a tumultuous time. Office vacancies have doubled from 6 and 7 percent two years ago to 13 to 16.5 percent, depending on which brokerage company is compiling the statistics. and asking rental rates keep dropping.
 But a river of cash is being pumped into the purchase of quality buildings by institutional and deep-pocketed local investors who have fled the stock market and seek stability in the county's real estate market. Prices, area real estate companies say , are approaching Midtown Manhattan's levels. 
 Ed Tonnessen, an executive vice president at Albert B. Ashforth Inc., assesses the situation as "a major disconnect -- more capital is coming into the investment pipeline courtesy of Wall Street's underperformance, bidding up prices in light of the anemic market for leasing." 
Trophy office buildings are selling for up to $480 a square foot. That was the price per square foot, for a total of $115 million, paid in June by Scott Landis and Broadway Partners for Pickwick Plaza in Greenwich. The 238,000-square-foot complex of three buildings is fully occupied on long-term leases by Sotheby's, Deutsche Bank, financial services and insurance companies, hedge funds and real-estate investment trusts. "Rent is over $70 a foot," Mr. Landis said.
In Stamford, asking rents are around $28 a square foot annually on the outskirts and rise to the mid-$40's downtown. But rents in the broader market have fallen steadily since 2000. With vacancies in the high 20 percent range in some northern towns, average rental rates have dropped by about $4.75 a square foot to the low $30's in lower Fairfield and the high teens to mid $20's in the rest of the county. 
There is even some slippage in Greenwich, where economic downturns are hardly noticed and rents are the highest in the state. "Asking rents downtown are around $65 a square foot," said Jay Hruska, executive director at Cushman & Wakefield. "Greenwich Plaza is asking $70 a foot for 25,000 square feet of available space, but I don't know of deals that high. Small pockets of space are available in buildings along the West Post Road, including nine buildings at Greenwich Office Park, for $45 a foot."
In the next year, Arthur Sheehan, partner at Delmhorst & Sheehan Inc., a real estate advisory services company, said: "Leasing is going to remain weak. The real estate market typically lags the general economy, and since we see no uptick in New York or the regional economy, I don't expect Fairfield County to perform well."
Last year, during a slowdown preceding the Sept. 11 attack, industry professionals said the situation was manageable, following an overheated rental market in which bidding wars were commonplace. Today, of a countywide total of 44.9 million square feet of offices, some 7 million square feet are vacant, with around 35 percent of that available for sublease. Terms are negotiable, with some landlords offering one to three months of free rent plus renovations and many subleases including furnishings and phone systems.
Blocks of space over 100,000 square feet are available for the first time in years in a handful of existing buildings as well as at 601 Merritt 7, a new 255,000-square-foot building opening this fall in Norwalk, and at Building and Land Technologies' 350,000-square-foot office building under construction next to it. But according to Al Mirin, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis in Stamford, "large spaces are not in demand; the typical deal is 10,000 square feet."
While the buying of buildings continues, indicating confidence in Fairfield's long-term outlook, Dean J. Shapiro, executive director of the Fairfield-Westchester region at Insignia/ESG, says lower Fairfield County has matured to where space, infrastructure and transportation are at a premium, whether the economy is up or down.
"The market is stratifying," he said. "People who are here need to be here and have employees who can afford to live here. But a true headquarters operation runs the gamut from C.E.O.'s to clerks. If you're making $75,000 a year and you're living in Shelton or Monroe or Trumbull, you have over an hour's commute each way. If the same job opportunities apply in Shelton, that's where people will move." 
HE pointed out that Pitney Bowes, founded in Stamford in 1920, was considering selling its 450,000-square-foot building and moving its operation out of town, leaving a small group of executives in Stamford. "I think that's reflective of the market," he said. Sheryl Battles, vice president of external affairs at Pitney Bowes, said, "we are exploring a range of options."
Shelton, in eastern Fairfield County, has profited by an influx of companies disenchanted with the high cost of doing business in Stamford and the difficulty of keeping employees frustrated by Interstate 95 congestion. In the last 20 years, Robert Scinto has developed 2.6 million square feet of offices in 30 buildings in Shelton, Fairfield and Trumbull, where more than 4 million square feet of commercial space has been built or renovated in those decades. Only 11,000 square feet are vacant in the nine buildings that comprise his signature complex, Enterprise Corporate Park in Shelton. "You can attract labor at 25 percent less than Stamford," he said, "rent first-class office space for $18 to $23 a foot, and buy a new house in Naugatuck for $121,000."
Cindy Gabris, an administrative assistant, is typical of a growing number of people who live in eastern Fairfield County and quit their jobs in Stamford to work in Shelton. They took pay cuts of 20 percent or more to end the grinding commute and work closer to home. "Time with my kids is worth more than money," Ms. Gabris said.
But the allure of Stamford for major corporations and real estate companies is undiminished. Equity Office of Chicago owns 1.8 million square feet of offices in eight Fairfield County buildings, predominantly in Stamford. The Davis Companies of Boston has bought and spent millions renovating 1.2 million square feet of offices in eight buildings in Norwalk, Wilton, Fairfield, Trumbull and Milford, and W&M Properties of Manhattan has built or bought 1.8 million square feet of offices in eight buildings: five in Stamford, two in Darien and one in Norwalk. Properties like that are over 90 percent leased even in bad times. 
Older buildings from the corporate campus era have not fared so well in recent years. Greenwich American Center, a 606,000-square-foot headquarters on 150 acres near Greenwich's border with North Castle, was built for the American Can Company 34 years ago. It has changed hands several times, becoming a multitenanted building, and is now owned by GLC Realty. Asking rent for 200,000 square feet of vacant space is $35 a square foot. 
Xerox, a presence in Stamford since 1968, put its 255,000-square-foot headquarters up for sale in March 2001. The 25-acre campus at 800 Long Ridge Road is being marketed by Eastdil Realty at $250 a foot, or $63.7 million. "That's way too high for an old building," said Jeffrey R. Dunne, senior vice president of investments at CB Richard Ellis. Xerox owns the land, and Stamfex Associates owns the building on a lease-back to Xerox. 
Only two companies took a substantial amount of space in Fairfield County during the post-Sept. 11 leasing of backup offices by New York companies in New Jersey, Westchester and the New York City boroughs outside Manhattan. American Express took a 10-year lease on 192,000 square feet at 400 Atlantic Street at around $48 a square foot, but it is moving back to New York. The Thomson Information Publishing Corporation of Stamford is weighing subleasing 150,000 square feet. 
The second deal was struck by Citigroup Asset Management, which at first took 145,000 square feet at First Stamford Place, then expanded to 290,985 square feet on a lease expiring in 2010. It has no plans to move back to New York, according to Brenda Sniffen, Citigroup's facilities manager. Rental rates at Stamford Place's three buildings are in the high $30's. 
Christopher P. Bruhl, executive director of Sacia, southwestern Connecticut's business and industry association, said that vacant office space would be absorbed as companies resume growth. As for housing, he said, "from 1990 Stamford had the largest population growth in the state, 10,000 people. The city has added several thousand units of housing at market and affordable rates, stopping the cannibalization of lower-cost housing through gentrification." 
Delmhorst & Sheehan characterize Stamford as the central business district of the region, arguably validated by the completion of UBS Warburg's addition to its American headquarters on Washington Boulevard. It now measures a million square feet out of a maximum of 1.35 million square feet allowed by zoning, and has the world's largest trading floor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pickwick Plaza in Greenwich, a 238,000-square-foot office complex, was sold for $115 million. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INSURANCE (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PICKWICK PLAZA (GREENWICH, CONN) 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BROADWAY PARTNERS 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; LANDIS, SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) FAIRFIELD COUNTY (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



56 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Wry, Tuneful Stories, All in 4-Minute Songs 

BYLINE:  By ED WARD 

 BODY:
TO the extent that most people have heard of Stew, it's as the leader of a band called the Negro Problem, a name that certainly draws attention to itself. But TNP, as its fans refer to it, is just one facet of this 40-year-old singer-songwriter's career, and over the last couple of years, he's put out a couple of solo albums that showcase a different approach to his music. 
 Stew was born Mark Stewart in Los Angeles, and as a black youngster with artistic leanings, he had a lot of trouble reconciling the kind of music he wanted to make with the music his peers were listening to. Then he heard the 60's psychedelic band Love, fronted by the enigmatic Arthur Lee, and something snapped. 
 "Arthur was the first person who made me feel I wasn't completely insane," Stew said by phone during a pause on his British tour recently. "I had no models for blacks writing this kind of melodic stuff, so it was a complete revelation, this delicate, almost fey music with what were pretty much baroque gangsta lyrics."
His quest sent him into the Los Angeles punk rock scene, and off to West Berlin in its 80's glory days, where he joined a performance art troupe for several years. All the while, he was secretly writing his wry, tuneful songs, and at the decade's end he headed back home. 
And, with the release of his new album, "Naked Dutch Painter" (Smile), Stew finds himself opening for his idol, Mr. Lee, who was released from prison in December after serving six years on firearms charges, on a tour that arrives at the Bowery Ballroom on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Saturday and next Sunday. 
Not that there are stylistic similarities between the two men, although Stew uses the word "baroque" about both of them. The word crops up often with him: the liner notes of his new album say that it's "an AfroBaroque Production," and he describes the difference between his work with the band and his solo work by saying: "The Negro Problem is a baroque, busy thing. For the solo stuff, I started from scratch, so 'Guest Host,' my first solo album, was very stripped down, and for this one I got more complex. The goal, though, was to keep the lyrics in the forefront, which is tough for me." He credits his bass player and partner, Heidi Rodewald, with "keeping me in check so that the story isn't overwhelmed."
Ah, the lyrics. Stew's fans fall all over themselves making comparisons. Cole Porter's name is often mentioned, and some Randy Newman, some Warren Zevon and some Ray Davies can be heard in the mix.
"Cole Porter is an easy touchstone for people who are looking at pop with intelligent lyrics," Stew said, "but you can't play my songs for the average person and expect them to get it right away. That aspect of his work is something I'd like to work towards. What I'm doing on this record is an attempt to reach towards Jacques Brel, because I'm very impressed with his work from the 50's. I'd put Brel over Dylan in his ability to put the kind of narrative you usually find in novels, with thoroughly drawn characters and situations in a four-minute song." 
There's no question that the kind of music Stew makes isn't exactly top 40 material, any more than there's any doubt that there's a formidable intelligence behind it. The album's title track, starting with its extremely explicit first line, will certainly snap your ears to attention, is a semicomic meditation on how sexual mores in American differ from those in Europe; it is rendered with an admirable economy of expression and a catchy melody. And "Cold Parade," probably the most complex song on the album, is an unflinching but essentially sympathetic portrait of a lonely man with too much time on his hands. But Stew is just as capable of writing something like "Love Is Coming Through the Door," which is pure pop, with a great hook in its chorus, propelled by the drummer Clem Burke from Blondie.
So who is he writing for, anyway? "I get these really weird college-educated types, and I have a hard-core following of black cats like me, closet outsiders, whose taste doesn't jibe with the community's," he said. "Then there are the guys with John Lennon glasses who spend too much time in record stores, spend more money in them now because they have jobs, and their wives and kids worry about them because they're so serious. In short, people who take music seriously. Without going out on a limb about it, I'd say if you get it, it's for you."
I do get it, and, from the sound of things, so did the audience at a recent weeklong engagement at the Knitting Factory in Los Angeles, where the basic tracks for "The Naked Dutch Painter" were recorded. They were touched up in the studio, and there's no attempt to disguise the fact on the album: the ambience goes from live to studio and back again quite seamlessly. The album is perhaps the finest collection of songs an American songwriter has come up with this year, although I, too, may spend too much time in record stores. 
Meanwhile, there will be a new Negro Problem album in September -- in the punning style of the last one, "Post-Minstrel Syndrome" (1997) -- this one is called "Welcome Black," followed by a short tour of the West Coast and New York.
"I've got to have the whole band, the horns and everything," he said, acknowledging that that attitude limits the amount of touring he can afford to do. That's O.K. with him: better baroque than broke. And that just gives the many who haven't heard him yet time to catch up.

Stew
Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street.
Saturday and next Sunday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stew is often compared to Cole Porter, but one can also hear some Randy Newman, some Warren Zevon in his music. (Armond Bagdasarian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SONG WRITING (77%); PAINTING (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%) MUSIC 

PERSON: STEW (SINGER); WARD, ED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); BERLIN, GERMANY (55%) NEW YORK, USA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (68%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



57 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: The Right Thing to Do 

BYLINE:  By Pam Belluck; Pam Belluck is the Boston bureau chief of The Times.

 BODY:
 I'LL BE SHORT
Essentials for
a Decent Working Society.
By Robert B. Reich.
121 pp. Boston:
Beacon Press. $20.
 As campaign books go, this one seems bolder than most, more willing to put stakes in controversial turf. "I'll Be Short: Essentials for a Decent Working Society," by Robert B. Reich, the secretary of labor in the first Clinton administration, is timed to coincide with his campaign for governor of Massachusetts and titled to play off Reich's ubiquitous, self-deprecating jokes about the fact that he is 4 feet 10 1/2 inches tall. 
It is not the safe campaign rallying cry that a cynical voter might expect. "I'll Be Short" is long on liberalism, an unabashedly passionate call for America to quit making the poor poorer as the rich get richer. And while Reich, a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University, packs his arguments with economic logic, he ultimately concludes that the best reason to help society's less fortunate is that it's the right thing to do. 
"We're all in this together," Reich writes. "Our common wealth lies not in the fatness of our individual wallets but in the productivity of every one of us."
Reich's central point is that government and business have skipped out on the social contract, which he defines as a three-pronged commitment: as companies do better, their employees should too; working people should be paid enough to support themselves and their families; and public education should allow all of us the opportunity to develop to our full potential. As a result of the sorry shredding of social responsibility, Reich says, even in the financially flush 1990's the average family in Massachusetts, and presumably the rest of the country, lost out. Adjusting for inflation, the typical Massachusetts household ended the decade $4,700 poorer than it was at the start. 
"Should you care? Yes," Reich writes. "After a point, as inequality widened, the bonds that kept our society together would snap. Every decision we tried to arrive at together -- about trade, immigration, education, taxes and social insurance (health, welfare, retirement) -- would be harder to make, because it would have such different consequences for the relatively rich than for the relatively poor. We could no longer draw upon a common reservoir of trust and agreed-upon norms to deal with such differences. We would begin to lose our capacity for democratic governance." These are ideas that Reich has honed over the years, but they are updated for a post-Sept. 11, post-Enron society. 
His solutions involve companies doing more to help their workers, and government doing more to help families. Family-friendly workplaces should be the norm, Reich writes, with flexible work schedules, generous family and medical leave, and help with child care. More companies should provide their workers, including part-time workers, with health care and pension benefits. More companies should invest in employee training programs, and more should let employees participate in boom times with profit sharing and other programs. Companies should also work closely with public schools, providing apprenticeships as a way to hire graduates. 
As for government, Reich writes, it could raise the minimum wage to $7 an hour and expand the earned-income tax credit. And the Federal Reserve Board could allow the economy to grow fast enough so that the demand for low-wage workers exceeded the supply, which would mean their wages would rise. Reich is a fan of giving young families what he calls "a starter nest egg," a cash subsidy or a savings account designed to encourage people to save for the long term. And much more money should be spent on education, from universities on down. 
Reich does his best to make his 121 pages a breezy read. There are some glimpses of formative experiences from his personal life, like the way that he was sensitized to feminism when his wife, Clare Dalton, was denied tenure by the male-dominated faculty of her university. (Dalton, now a law professor at Northeastern University, won a lawsuit against the other institution and used the settlement money to set up an institute on domestic violence.) There is the advice he got from a boy who used to protect him from bullies when they were kids summering in upstate New York. The advice was that "bullies could not really hurt me if I was stronger inside than they were inside." The boy, it turns out, was Michael Schwerner, one of three civil rights workers murdered in 1964 while trying to register voters in Mississippi. 
Politically speaking, the book is not entirely predictable. For example, Reich writes that he favors a kind of school voucher system in which states would pay schools more money per pupil for poor students, and public schools could compete to enroll these disadvantaged students and receive the money that goes with them. "Don't call my proposal a voucher scheme," Reich writes in mock dread that people would think his idea was less than liberal. "Call it anything else. Call it liverwurst." He adds that "liverwurst is an idea whose time has come."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tim Robinson)ll my proposal a voucher scheme," Reich writes in mock dread that people would think his idea was less than liberal. "Call it an 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FAMILY (89%); FLEXTIME (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); IMMIGRATION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; REICH, ROBERT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: I'LL BE SHORT: ESSENTIALS FOR A DECENT WORKING SOCIETY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



58 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: And Bear In Mind 

 BODY:
 (Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)

KOBA THE DREAD: Laughter and the Twenty Million, by Martin Amis. (Talk Miramax/ Hyperion, $24.95.) Amis's take on Stalin is like most people's now: the man was false, murderous and paranoid to a degree that defies consideration. But Amis is also deeply vexed at intellectuals who didn't know this soon enough or don't know it yet.

YOU ARE NOT A STRANGER HERE, by Adam Haslett. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $21.95.) These nine short stories (Haslett's first collection) exhale a desiccated bleakness, a despair mitigated by the characters' continuing desire to be good, to do the right thing despite hopelessness, loss, disease and mental illness.

THE WHORE'S CHILD: And Other Stories, by Richard Russo. (Knopf, $24.) In these short stories the author of "Empire Falls," this year's Pulitzer Prize novel, abandons working-class settings and protagonists in favor of intellectuals caught in late middle age, worried about illness and ambivalent about marriage.

EISENHOWER: A Soldier's Life, by Carlo D'Este. (John Macrae/Holt, $35.) A very thick book about an ambitious, self-confident man; it explores adeptly the events in 1944-45 that tested the limits of Eisenhower's abilities, which were enormous as to organization and political sensitivity but not as to strategic skills.

THE WINTER ZOO, by John Beckman. (Holt, $25.) The hero of this first novel, a young man newly arrived in Poland from Iowa, trades his naivete for lessons in youthfulness; Beckman captures the rush of freshly liberated desires in post-Communist Europe, making his climactic scene a pansexual orgy in a Cracow hotel.

PRAGUE, by Arthur Phillips. (Random House, $24.95.) A first novel set in 1990, far beyond the recently fallen Berlin Wall, where young Americans reveal themselves not as travelers but mere tourists, detached from their surroundings, weightless and immaterial among time-battered buildings and people who have survived wars and uprisings.

DARLINGTON'S FALL: A Novel in Verse, by Brad Leithauser. (Knopf, $25.) A 5,700-line verse novel (10-line stanzas, irregularly rhymed) that invokes the "butterfly effect" of chaos mathematics: a butterfly's random passage starts Russel Darlington on the road to a career in lepidoptery; many years later, a second butterfly lures him to fall from a cliff, crippling him permanently.

HALF IN LOVE: Stories, by Maile Meloy. (Scribner, $23.) Fourteen stories, set mostly in the author's native Montana, among small-time racetracks and failed oil wells, where brides choose wedding dresses to hide branding-iron scars; no one expects an easy life here, and even the young feel their choices constrained by economics and losing habits.

WHEN EVE WAS NAKED: Stories of a Life's Journey, by Josef Skvorecky. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A collection of short stories ranged chronologically along the span of the author's life; the amorous pursuit of teenage girls is a constant presence, but the grand themes of the 20th century will keep intruding.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Michael Birt; Michael Malyszko)ction of short stories ranged chronologically along the

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); MARRIAGE (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); EUROPE (74%); POLAND (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



59 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2531 words

HEADLINE: Eternal Squeeze 

BYLINE:  By CARIN RUBENSTEIN 

 BODY:
CEMETERIES make many people uncomfortable. They can be disturbing, even a bit creepy. They inspire small children to hold their breath while passing. But a well-maintained cemetery can be lovely and luxuriant and it can be a source of family pride. 
 Doris Finch Watson, 78, is the secretary-treasurer and the only paid employee of the 15-acre Middle Patent Rural Cemetery in North Castle. She is fond of cemeteries, especially historical ones, and especially hers. 
 Eight generations of her family have been buried in Middle Patent, including Samuel Banks, who, in 1743, was the cemetery's first customer. An island in the cemetery's small lake, Dorrie's Island, is named for her. Mrs. Watson owns a large family plot in Middle Patent that "can take care of quite a group," she said. 
But Middle Patent, and other cemeteries large and small in Westchester County, are at a fundamental turning point, economically, physically and legally. They are running out of space. Some are in danger of running out of money. Not least among their problems: the downturn in the stock market, which has brought bad news for the dead as well as the living.
Many of the county's smaller cemeteries, both nonsectarian and those affiliated with a church or synagogue, are running out of space for in-ground burials. Middle Patent Cemetery, for example, has room for only a few hundred more graves. And although it is theoretically possible to create new cemeteries in Westchester, it is unlikely that they will be built because of the scarcity and high cost of undeveloped land, said Richard Fishman, director of the Division of Cemeteries in the New York State Department of State, which oversees about 1,900 nonsectarian cemeteries in the state.
The way the cemetery business is conducted is also under examination. A federal court case has been filed in Syracuse that challenges the constitutionality of the New York State Cemetery Law. The case, brought by the New York State Association of Cemeteries, takes issue with the state's prohibition of cemeteries to run for-profit businesses like funeral homes and monument dealerships. Most other states have no such restriction. 
"New York State treats its cemeteries like quasi-charities and quasi-public utilities, but without the legal protection of either," said Bob Fells, external chief executive officer and general counsel of the International Cemetery and Funeral Association in Reston, Va., which filed a brief in suppport of the motion. 
"The very protective laws in New York State are anticompetitive and anticonsumer," he said, adding, "The domino effect is that it's a bad deal for everyone." 
State officials, however, defend the current system.
"It's public policy that the death-care industry is separate from cemeteries, but the cemeteries do compete against each other," said Mr. Fishman, who is responsible for overseeing the management of the 19 nonsectarian cemeteries in Westchester County. Religious cemeteries are owned and managed by churches and synagogues and are not governed by the state law. But sectarian and religious cemeteries in Westchester County charge very similar prices for burials, said John Crawford, who manages three funeral homes in Westchester and has worked with the majority of cemeteries in the county.
While all of Westchester County's nonsectarian and religious cemeteries are nonprofit, they do have to generate enough revenue to make investments that will pay for the maintenance of the cemetery long after every single plot is sold.
While Mr. Fells believes that burial prices will become less expensive in New York if the lawsuit succeeds, some local cemetery administrators disagree. 
"Lot prices in Westchester will always be competitive, based on supply and demand of what we have left," said Chester Day, president of Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla. 
Cemeteries in Westchester can charge what they want for burial rights, as long as they notify the state, Mr. Fishman said. 
BECAUSE Westchester is an expensive place to live, it is an expensive place to die, too. The cost of being buried in the New York metropolitan area, including Westchester, is highest in the state, Mr. Fishman said. Statewide, the average price for a burial plot is about $500, but in Westchester, it's at least $1,000, he said.
Buying burial rights means just that -- the right to be buried -- but the lot owner does not own the dirt and the grass. If a 30-square-foot plot costs about $1,200, that comes to a price of about $1.7 million per grassy burial acre in Westchester.
Generally speaking, the farther north in Westchester, the cheaper the burial plots. Prices at Hillside Cemetery in Cortlandt Manor begin at $875, but they can go as high as $5,000 for a plot for two in Beechwoods Cemetery in New Rochelle. Prices at Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale can be as high as $4,500 for an in-ground burial plot and up to $15,500 for an above-ground space. 
While some people buy burial plots when a family member dies, others are enticed by advertising, the death of a close relative or a need to plan ahead.
Nicolina Arpaia, 43, of Hawthorne, whose father-in-law died a year ago, is also the kind of person who arranges major vacations a year in advance and who is thinking about arrangements for her son's wedding before he is even engaged. Recently, she and her husband, along with two sets of in-laws and her parents, who live in Italy, have bought seven additional spaces in a full-body crypt at Ferncliff Cemetery, at a cost of $17,000 to $22,000 for two spaces, depending on location.
"It's like heaven there," she said, "with music all around and in immaculate condition." Because she is a neat person, Mrs. Arpaia said, she is relieved to know that she will be in such a spotless, serene place for eternity. 
Burial prices vary within each cemetery, too, depending on the location of the grave site. At the huge 460-acre Kensico Cemetery, for instance, "we price lowest in the valley, and highest on top of the hills," said Mr. Day, the superintendent there. "It's the same way many homes are priced in Westchester," he added.
The size of a plot also matters. A small marker headstone, flush to the ground, requires much less space than an upright stone. And space for private mausoleums, which are becoming increasingly rare, can begin at about $150,000 at the Westchester Hills Cemetery, a Jewish cemetery in Hastings-on-Hudson. But that is before construction: The final cost for a private mausoleum can range between $500,000 and $2.5 million, said Alan Goldsmith, executive director of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan, which runs the 17-acre cemetery.
Likewise, at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, the cost of buying property for a family mausoleum would be at least $105,000, before construction.
Keeping prices as high as possible is essential for many cemeteries because of the Byzantine accounting involved in cemetery economics. Cemeteries are required by New York State to reserve 10 percent of their proceeds in a permanent maintenance fund that goes into a trust, and 15 percent for current maintenance. If the cemeteries do not sustain a steady stream of new business, they will not have enough money to put aside for perpetual care or for daily upkeep, especially after all the grave sites have been sold. 
Although religious cemeteries are under no legal obligation to abide by this rule, many of them try to set aside at least that much. 
At Gate of Heaven Cemetery, a cemetery in Hawthorne which is run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, for example, "We set aside 50 percent of all lot sales in our permanent care fund," James Ford, the superintendent, said. About 80 percent of the cemetery's 250 acres has already been used, he noted, so the size of the fund becomes increasingly important.
Indeed, cemeteries are a place where someone has to mow the grass forever. And someone else has to be able to pay for it.
While some cemeteries are adept at caring for their maintenance funds, which are usually administered by an investment committee, others are not. The general fund and the trust fund at the 63-acre Ferncliff Cemetery in Hastings, for example, totals about $125 million, and is run by an investment committee that hires several investment managers, said Kevin Boyd, the cemetery's president. Ferncliff is perhaps the wealthiest cemetery in Westchester and the second most well-endowed in the state, Mr. Fishman said.
The health of cemetery investment funds is clearly dependent upon the health of the stock market. 
"Swings in the market can change our financial outlook considerably," Mr. Boyd said, "but we're in it for the longest of long terms, and we've had a good return over the past three to five years. It's every cemetery's goal to try to accumulate as large a fund as possible, while generating enough income to support the expense of the operation. We have to maintain these grounds in perpetuity, which is a long, long time."
Other Westchester cemeteries, however, are struggling financially, even under the close supervision of New York State auditors. 
"About six or seven cemeteries in Westchester have very little money in their trust fund," Mr. Fishman said, "and once they finish selling grave sites, they'll be in tough shape to maintain themselves." 
The 38-acre Beechwoods Cemetery in New Rochelle, for instance, has only $3 million in its investment fund, in part because it completed such a large proportion of burials in the 1920's and 30's, when the burial prices were as low as $50 or $60, said Jens Olsen, the cemetery's treasurer. 
If a cemetery goes bankrupt in New York State, it becomes a ward of the municipality, which means that local taxpayers are responsible for its maintenance. Cemetery officials said that is why most towns have a strong not-in-my-backyard reaction to cemeteries.
WHEN local cemeteries try to expand, they are often met with community opposition. Ferncliff Cemetery, which is 90 percent full, fought a legal battle with Hartsdale for six years before it could build a new, $25 million community mausoleum, Mr. Boyd said.
But this only illustrates the problem for future generations of what to do with the dead when there is no more room in the ground. Ferncliff Cemetery has only about 25 years of space left for in-ground burials, Mr. Boyd said. "If the trend toward cremation takes root here," he said, "we could do far more interments than full-body interments." 
Nationwide, about 25 percent of the deceased are cremated, including about 20 percent in New York State, according to figures released by the Cremation Association of North America. The association estimates that by 2025, nearly half of Americans will choose to be cremated, as will about 31 percent of New Yorkers.
At Kensico Cemetery, which does six or seven burials a day, or about 2,000 burials a year, "we'll run out of space for traditional burials by 2075," Mr. Day said. After that, he said, "it's my opinion that we'll see more cremations."
But Richard Brown, the superintendent of Hillside Cemetery in Cortlandt Manor, which is only about half full, has a more creative prediction.
"Maybe in the future there won't be anything like a cemetery." he said. "Your name will be on a big computer for people to look up.
"What it comes down to in the end, is a person wants a place to put his name, like a cemetery, so he knows he existed. Man needs that for some reason."

Where the Fabled and Famous Rest
Cemeteries in Westchester County compete, in part, by bragging about their famous dead, as well as by emphasizing the views and the superb upkeep.
Kensico Cemetery, the largest in Westchester, distributes a colorful sales booklet, which features the cemetery's green rolling hills, cherry trees in full flower and industrious maintenance workers mowing and raking.
"We're known for our care and maintenance." said its president, Chester Day. "We market the cemetery by the way it looks and the service we provide for families." 
Because it is so big, Kensico also has the most diverse group of famous dead. Lou Gehrig and Ayn Rand are buried there, and so are Danny Kaye and Sergei Rachmaninoff, and Flo Ziegfeld and Tommy Dorsey.
At the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, which is run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, the superintendent, James Ford, points out that Babe Ruth, James Cagney and Sal Mineo are buried there. About 3,000 burials a year are performed at the 250-acre cemetery, Mr. Ford said, adding that local celebrities including former New York City mayor, Jimmy Walker, and radio star, Fred Allen, are also buried there.
At Westchester Hills Cemetery in Hastings-on-Hudson, the family mausoleum of Ira and George Gershwin has become a tourist attraction, said Alan Goldsmith, executive director of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan that runs the 17-acre cemetery. John Garfield, Billy Rose and Judy Holiday are also buried there. CARIN RUBENSTEIN

Here, Turf Is Diverse
AT Kensico Cemetery, the families Eng and Menendez are buried side by side, not far from lots that belong to the Actor's Fund and the Salvation Army. Large portions of Kensico Cemetery also include Korean and Chinese graves, in part because the cemetery has a large selection of east-facing hills, a preferred burial spot among Asians.
This diversity makes for compli cated visiting habits in nonsectarian cemeteries. 
Kensico Cemetery, for instance, provides stones for Jewish families, who traditionally place one atop a monument when they visit. They also provided burning baskets for Asian families, who burn paper at funerals, until this summer's drought, when fire danger necessitated the discouraging of this habit.
Asian families often leave food for ancestors when they visit cemeteries, which proves to be troublesome for cemetery maintenance staff, who have to remove the food and plastic containers fast, before savvy racoons discover the accidental feast.
Religious cemeteries have become more diverse as they have grown much less restrictive about who can be buried in their plots.
"There was a time in the past when Jewish and Protestant and Catholic cemeteries had stricter rules about who could be buried there," said James Ford, superintendent of Gate of Heaven Cemetery, a Catholic cemetery run by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. A person can be buried at Gate of Heaven if a funeral Mass has been celebrated or if there is a note from the local parish authorizing the burial, Mr. Ford said. But he also acknowledged that a Jewish or Muslim or Baptist spouse can be buried in a Catholic's family plot, no questions asked.
At Mount Calvary Cemetery in White Plains, one of 12 parish cemeteries in Westchester, Jewish spouses are buried under stones that feature a Star of David and a cross, Anthony Ciulla, the cemetery director, said.
At Westchester Hills Cemetery, run by the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan, "anyone can purchase a plot, though the vast majority are Jewish," said Alan Goldsmith, executive director of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue. The same is true at Temple Israel Cemetery, where a non-Jewish ceremony is not allowed, although a person doesn't have to be Jewish to be buried there. CARIN RUBENSTEIN

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, which is operated by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, about 80 percent of the site's 250 acres has already been used. (Debbi Morello for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Doris Finch Watson, above, secretary-treasurer of the Middle Patent Rural Cemetery in North Castle, where eight generations of her family are buried. At Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, the new community mausoleum, center, which was built after a six-year legal battle. A flag held by rocks at a headstone in Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, top left. Rows of headstones on a hillside in Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla. At Kensico, the highest prices for grave sites are on top of the hills. (Photographs by Debbi Morello for The New York Times); Among the famous dead buried in Westchester County cemeteries are Jimmy Cagney and Babe Ruth, who are both buried in the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne. Ayn Rand is buried in Kensico Cemetery, the largest in Westchester, with 460 acres. (Debbi Morello for The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Warner Brothers); (Allyn Baum/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMETERIES (92%); CHILDREN (89%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (89%); CEMETERY OPERATORS (79%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); LAWYERS (64%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); LITIGATION (62%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (61%); RELIGION (51%) CEMETERIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ASSN OF CEMETERIES 

PERSON: RUBENSTEIN, CARIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



60 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Design Is Set for Coast Guard Museum 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

 BODY:
A GROUP that is working to open the first United States Coast Guard Museum in the country has announced its plans for a glass building near the lower Thames River and next door to Fort Trumbull State Park in New London.
 Urs Gauchat, an architect and the dean and professor of architecture at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, last week displayed his design for the museum: a mostly glass building buttressed on one side by a granite wall that is meant to evoke the look of Fort Trumbull. 
 Although financing for the museum is still in the works, the plan is to build a 40,000-square-foot building with four stories of display space. 
There will be modern interactive exhibitions, ships, buoys, search and rescue boats and an Imax theater. Outside a decommissioned lighthouse vessel will shine a beacon and there will a 120-space parking garage. Last year, those backing the museum organized the National Coast Guard Museum Association.
Speaking at the state park visitors center, the association's directors said they would raise $20 million and added that they were confident the United States Congress would provide another $10 million.
The association intends for the museum to open in 2005, when the public could visit free of charge.
"This is an incredible opportunity," Mr. Gauchat said. "There are 74 military museums of various kinds, but there is only one 5,000-square-foot space devoted to the Coast Guard." Mr. Gauchat was referring to a small exhibition at the Coast Guard Academy on Route 32.
The museum is the latest move in the urban renewal project in this mixed residential and commercial area of New London, which a few years ago was known more for a scrap-metal yard and sewage treatment plant than for its proximity to the waterfront. Now the area includes the new research headquarters of pharmaceutical company Pfizer, while the scrap-metal business has moved out of town. Fort Trumbull State Park, a former military post and later a sonar laboratory, opened last year. Its visitors center was finished this year.
The Coast Guard Academy is a few miles north of this spot, but the academy used to be situated at Fort Trumbull. The Coast Guard's New London station is nearby.
After the association revealed the design last week, its members also announced that they would be signing agreements with the New London Development Corporation for the corporation to take steps to buy the land they want for the museum and later to deed it at no cost to the Guard. The corporation already owns 80 percent of the site the Coast Guard picked, two acres that overlook the state park, said James J. Coleman Jr., chairman of the National Coast Guard Museum Association.
Another board member is State Senator Catherine W. Cook, a Republican from the 18th District. She said the Coast Guard had looked elsewhere in New London and in New Jersey and New York.
The New London corporation has been buying land by eminent domain for the last few years. While the museum association revealed its plans, Foe Hammerone, who belongs to a citizens' group fighting the taking of land by eminent domain, stood outside in protest.
Mr. Hammer, who owns commercial land in another area scheduled for redevelopment, said: "These homeowners were there first. Eminent domain is being used to take things from people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of a new, 40,000-square-foot Coast Guard Museum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); SONAR SYSTEMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (94%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (64%); PFEB (BRU) (64%); PFE (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



61 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: As the Economy Crawls, A Firm Looks for the Jobs 

BYLINE:  By JAAN van VALKENBURGH 

 BODY:
JOSEPH B. QUINN talks about pockets of opportunity in New York City and its environs.
 There are job openings in information technology, the security business, the credit and credit-analysis industries and asset management, he says. Teaching and health care also show promise. 
 Advertising budgets are growing, opening possibilities both at companies that place the ads and at ad agencies. "There would be maybe the beginning of a pattern there," Mr. Quinn said. 
But unless you're very lucky or have great connections, you can probably forget about Wall Street, investment banks, publishing and telecommunications.
Whatever their profession, job seekers might want to consider positions or firms not on their career radars a few years ago, Mr. Quinn says. Boutique firms with as few as 10 employees are cherry-picking in a lush crop of out-of-work professionals these days, he says, while larger firms are cutting costs and positions.
Mr. Quinn ought to know. As the newly created job market consultant for New York City at Lee Hecht Harrison, a career-services and executive-outplacement firm based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., he spends his days talking to recruiters, human-resources professionals and his own firm's counselors and poring over trade and business publications, all to get a fix on where the jobs are and where they aren't.
This year, what was once at best a part-time clerical job at his firm has been turned into a full-time one. Traditionally, outplacement agencies, many of which had their start about 30 years ago, haven't been in the business of doing market research for clients, or even finding jobs for them. That was left to recruiters and the clients themselves.
Instead, Lee Hecht Harrison stuck to counseling clients on how to look for work -- how to write a winning resume, how to ace interviews, how to network and even how to decide what career to go into or what career to switch to. Often, its services were paid for by the client's former employer as part of a severance package.
But last fall, its clients in New York City just weren't finding work, according to Jack Stillwaggon, general manager of Lee Hecht Harrison's three Manhattan offices. (The firm also has four New Jersey offices, one Long Island office and two Connecticut offices.) Almost 89,000 jobs were lost that quarter, according to the city's comptroller's office. Since then, the job situation has become even worse, with the unemployment rate going to 8 percent from 6.8 percent.
Then, late last year, news reached corporate headquarters that a couple of counselors in other cities were taking on new, unofficial duties: doing research on local economies and actually helping clients find jobs, rather than just prepare them for their searches. And, they were having some success at it.
As a result, Mr. Stillwaggon said, the company, which has 93 offices in the United States and 77 abroad, made an important policy switch. While Lee Hecht Harrison would not get into the recruiting business, it would offer clients regional job market research, as well as job listings from around the country on a proprietary Web site. And a newly created position, job market consultant, would complete the new tasks in each major market.
Since then, Lee Hecht Harrison has hired more than 50 job market consultants at its larger offices in the United States. By the end of the year, there will be 60.
The insights that Mr. Quinn has gained from his research into the local economy aren't terribly reassuring to job seekers.
"There are no huge optimistic signs that I'm seeing," he said. "Most people now, certainly recruiters, are saying, 'We need these eight things, and if you don't have these eight things. . . .' " He added, "It's their market, versus 18 to 24 months ago."
Not surprisingly, the worst place to be job hunting is probably Wall Street, he says. "The near total absence of merger-and-acquisition activity has left investment bankers a very expensive payroll item," he said, and major staff cutbacks are probably inevitable.
But information-technology workers should dust off their resumes, he says. Many recruiters are telling him that this fall will be the best quarter for them in two years, and in all specialties, he says. Skills that will be most in demand include familiarity with Sybase database software, which is often used by financial institutions to manage information, and with C++, an object-oriented language useful when writing large, complex programs.
There also is a need for people who can set up PeopleSoft programs that manage customer accounts, employee information or company financial statements. Later, people will be needed to maintain the system.
But even in information technology, employers are being choosier than ever in filling openings, according to Michael Cohen of Short Hills, N.J., who says he is undergoing the longest stretch -- 10 months -- of unemployment in his 21 years as an information technology worker on Wall Street.
"I spent my career in financial services, and that's an industry particularly hard hit at this time," Mr. Cohen said. He says his skills translate to other professions, but "I'm finding that unexpectedly difficult." Employers are demanding experience in their industries, as well as information technology itself, a hurdle he says he has never faced before. He compares the experience to being in a "rolling fall."
One man's stress, though, is another man's boon. Financial restructurings, or "workouts," on Wall Street mean firms need financial gurus to keep them in the black, or out of bankruptcy court, Mr. Quinn said.
Risk management has never been deemed more important. "Anything on or about making sure the i's are dotted and the t's are crossed," he said. That means accountants, who have received so much bad publicity lately, are in high demand. Just ask Thomas Bogle, director of corporate real estate services at Ernst & Young, the big accounting firm. Mr. Bogle was hired nine months ago to expand the department, and he is looking both for new graduates with specialized real estate degrees as well as senior commercial real-estate professionals, he said.
"We are aggressively hiring," he said. "Corporations today are looking to be as efficient as possible."
Farther from the corporate sector, Mr. Quinn says there are ample openings in both education and health care, especially in mid- and low-level positions. "A C.F.O. or C.E.O. or someone in marketing can't go into those positions on a moment's notice," he said.
No matter the field, count on a longer interview process, including more background checks, he says. And until the economy rebounds, consider making a career out of a string of temporary jobs.
"More and more of the work force may be working on a contract basis," he said. In an employer's market, many firms would rather not offer training, benefits, or the financial commitment of a long-term position.
With senior positions scarce, laid-off executives with generous severance packages might consider starting a company, Mr. Quinn says. And for out-of-work managers whose skills aren't up to date or whose specialty is in an industry that isn't hiring, Mr. Quinn says, this might be a good time to put off the job search and go back to school.
"It's actually a great opportunity to do it," he said, "because you won't be missing the boat so much."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph B. Quinn is now a job market consultant for Lee Hecht Harrison. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); CITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

PERSON: QUINN, JOSEPH B; VAN VALKENBURGH, JAAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



62 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
Call It N.Y.S.E. North

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
IS it true that the New York Stock Exchange, which has been in the city since 1792, might be coming to Westchester? Before you go and bake a pie for the new neighbor, let's examine the whole situation.
 The exchange is known to be considering a second trading floor in addition to its historic site on the corner of Wall and Broad Streets. It needs a backup site to handle extra capacity and in the event of terrorism. But while the chatter about the exchange coming to Westchester has been intense, the details have proven as vague as a Halliburton earnings release. 
 One line of thought was that the N.Y.S.E. was just leaking the story that it is house-hunting in the suburbs to get a better bag of subsidies from the city and then open up its second floor in one of the boroughs. But if we are being used as a pawn, we must ask ourselves an essential question. Why Westchester instead of the king of all pawns, New Jersey? Does becoming pawn-of-choice signal an arrival of sorts, or a comedown? But I'm not here to wring my hands over questions of status, not when the cradle of capitalism might be rolling into town. 
Westchester residents seem somewhat blase at the prospect. Perhaps, what with the stock market's showing all the charm of a defoliant, getting the exchange has the distinct feel of a booby prize. Perhaps they may think we would be better off with a minor league ballpark or even a weekend visit by a traveling carnival. 
But, people, put your 401(k) bitterness aside for a moment. 
Consider that the county has been the home of so many with telepathic trading talent. Ivan Boesky used to live in Mount Kisco and now Martha Stewart has a home in Bedford. And don't forget that before she was a junior senator from New York, a certain Chappaqua resident was a fledgling trader with a run of beginner's luck. 
Furthermore, what's good for Wall Street is good for the county. The county's economy at large would prosper. How am I so certain? I used to work on Wall Street and ate lunch with traders. They ate so much, so quickly, that the rule was: put your hand anywhere near their mouths and you'll pull back a stump. Now, I suppose a case can be made that we're taking a risk by exposing our children to the sight of men consuming entire Reuben sandwiches in a hair under three seconds. But think of the money pouring into our delis.
The county is facing a deficit, and local taxes are on the rise. But if traders started satiating their outsize appetites at local establishments, lush times would follow. Call it corned beef recovery. 
The advantages go beyond the economic to the emotional. The presence of the N.Y.S.E. would give Westchester residents a well-deserved break from constant news about the dangers of Indian Point. All that talk about reserve margins would quickly give way to talk about margin calls; worries about spent fuel pools would turn into outrage over pooled asset accounting schemes; and nuclear fallout fears would be replaced by the fear of owning the latest I.P.O. clunker to go public on the exchange. 
I was so excited about the prospect of the exchange's arrival here that I called the county executive to gauge the exact status of negotiations. But a spokeswoman said that they have not even been contacted about any move. At first, this was puzzling. 
But the Colts football team did famously leave Baltimore in moving trucks under the cover of night. Could the exchange be planning its move to the suburbs in the same fashion? Are the people of, say, Verplanck, going to wake up one morning to the sound of the opening bell? 
They'd be waking up to a more exciting day. Something about the exchange floor invites an excess and flair that could sure liven up your average suburban subdivision. One time, Abbie Hoffman, trying to make some sort of point, threw fistfuls of dollar bills from the visitor's gallery to the floor of the exchange. Traders promptly stepped all over one another to grab the bills and stuff them into their pockets, proving, I guess, that if they haven't eaten lunch yet, traders will sock one another silly for Reuben money that is falling from the sky. And now the chance is there, after 210 years, for Reuben money to start falling to a suburban county's bottom line. It's something to be excited about, but remember: at feeding time, don't be careless with your hands.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); SUBURBS (69%); US 401K PLANS (63%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); TERRORISM (56%); COMPANY EARNINGS (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



63 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Design That Is Literally Accessible 

BYLINE:  By FRED B. ADELSON 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
MARLENE WEINER, an occupational therapist and one of the 29 interior designers participating in this year's Show House at the Shore, still becomes emotional when she thinks about how her work can help the elderly and the disabled to do something as simple as take a shower alone for the first time. 
 "It is the greatest blessing to make people feel better," and live safely, comfortably, and independently in their own houses, she said. 
 The show house -- this year actually a newly built house and a smaller cottage across the street -- is a fund-raising event, Show House of Champions 1 and 2, sponsored by the Ruth Newman Shapiro Cancer and Heart Fund. The show benefits the Gilda's Club South Jersey, which offers nonmedical support for cancer patients and their families and friends. 
The houses reflect two ends of the price spectrum to illustrate how what is known as universal design can solve the problems of everyday living that the elderly and the disabled face. They include features like stepless entries, wider doors and hallways, nonslip flooring without thresholds, casement windows, sitting work spaces, curbless showers, easy-to-grip lever hardware, offset plumbing control faucets, and grab bars coordinated with the decor. 
When well done, these elements can be be virtually invisible and can benefit everyone, regardless of age or ability. 
The two properties will be open to the public until Aug. 18, then both will reopen in November as a meeting place for the Gilda's Club. By appointment, the public will still be able to visit these universal design properties. 
Situated in the Atlantic Heights redevelopment district here, the main house, which cost about $1.3 million, was designed by Mark Petrella, senior associate at Sykes O'Connor Salerno Hazaveh Architects of Atlantic City. The modestly scaled accompanying cottage was designed by Cristina Buendicho of CB Architects of Ventnor. 
The buildings were financed by the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, which uses casino revenue for urban revitalization and community development, with technical assistance from American Association of Retired Persons and the Center for Universal Design at North Carolina State University's College of Design.
The smaller property, with 1,449 square feet of living space, will serve as the prototype for new housing units, like the neighboring Carolina Gardens; the development authority plans to incorporate universal design in all its new construction.
The larger house brings to mind the magnificent Shingle Style houses along the Northeast coast dating from the 1880's. The exterior is sheathed with a textured pattern of shingles of varied shapes, stained Cape Cod gray set against the Nantucket-white trim. Like those 19th-century residences, this two-story home has a prominent gable that not only rises vertically but also expands horizontally; here it is asymmetrically placed to the left. 
The veranda is a significant feature of the exterior and complements the protruding octagon of the kitchen on the opposite side. Because Atlantic City is on a barrier island, the first floor must be raised to prevent flooding. Along with front steps, a gently sloped walkway and a vertical lift in the back provide alternatives to reach the elevated front and back doors. 
Inside, wide halls and generous door openings allow easy circulation through the 3,500-square-foot residence of four bedrooms and three and a half baths. The feeling of grandeur is reinforced by nine-foot ceilings. There is a bedroom and master bath on the first floor, and an elevator provides access to the second floor. The wooden steps of the main staircase have a darker stained edge for those with low vision. 
Universal design features are especially important in the kitchen, bathrooms and laundry rooms (with the elevated front-loading, front-controlled washer and dryer or combo units), where many top-of-the-line options have been installed. The rotating clothes rack in the closet of the upstairs front bedroom and the central vacuum system; the hoseless outlets (called automatic dustpans) in the kitchen are at floor level under the oven and dry pantry, amenities that would suit any house. 
The master bathroom on the first floor contains a toilet-bidet combination, and the upstairs master bathroom has a multiple-use bathing area to accommodate a variety of physical conditions. The soft tub has the sheen of porcelain over a cushioned surface that provides safety for the user while maintaining water temperature.
No expense was spared in the kitchen. With the deliberately distressed finish of the off-white wood cabinetry and the countertops with a Pompeian red strip to identify their edges, this luxurious space functions for standing or seated cooks. All appliances have front-panel controls for easier operation; the oven door swings open, not down. A two-drawer dishwasher efficiently assists with clean-up.
The rooms are handsomely appointed, and the landscaped and furnished deck off the master bedroom on the second floor should not be overlooked. Unfortunately, some spaces seem too cluttered for wheelchair users or anyone with limited visibility. 
In the cottage, Ms. Weiner of Interiors for Independence, the only designer who specializes in universal design environments, created a vibrant, marine-themed bathroom. Her work demonstrates that less can be more.
Universal Design Demonstration House Show House of Champions 1 and 2, North Carolina Avenue at Absecon Boulevard, Atlantic City. Through Aug. 18. Information: (609) 345-8182

GRAPHIC: Photos: This year's Show House at the Shore in Atlantic City demonstrates design for all that is also accessible to the elderly or the disabled. Features include bathrooms like the one above, with a bathing area to accommodate a variety of physical conditions, and a kitchen sink with hideaway doors, left, that allow wheelchair access. The dining room is below left. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CANCER (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (62%) INTERIOR DESIGN; AGED; HANDICAPPED 

ORGANIZATION: GILDA'S CLUB; SHAPIRO, RUTH NEWMAN, CANCER AND HEART FUND 

PERSON: ADELSON, FRED B 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



64 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: Co-op Board to Buyer: Information Please 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
"IT is one of the most personally invasive experiences in most people's adult lives," said Douglas Wagner, president of Benjamin James Real Estate, a Manhattan brokerage firm, referring to the "board package" that prospective buyers submit when they want to buy an apartment in a co-op building.
 The written material, sometimes several hundred pages thick, provides an exquisitely detailed financial and personal portrait. "It is time consuming, tedious and confusing," Mr. Wagner said, "and yet many people take on the challenge in exchange for the privilege of owning property in Manhattan." 
 For apartment purchasers, it is also unavoidable. "It is the way we do business in New York City," said Paul Purcell, president of Insignia Douglas Elliman, another Manhattan-based brokerage firm. "Eighty-five percent of our market is still co-ops rather than condos, and if you want to see the entire marketplace and everything available, this is what you will be up against." 
That does not mean that people seeking to buy co-ops elsewhere in New York City and its suburbs are not called on to pull back the curtains on their lives, financial and personal, to a panel of strangers, but they usually do not have to do so to such a painstaking extent. "In Manhattan they want more detail," said Gregory J. Carlson, executive director of the Federation of New York Housing Cooperatives and Condominiums, which represents 450 buildings, 90 percent of them co-ops, primarily in Queens, Manhattan and Brooklyn. 
Want to buy without having to divulge things you might not tell your spouse, your mother, your psychiatrist? 
In the past, people who balked at baring their financial souls to a group of strangers, turned to condominiums -- where residents purchase real property rather than shares in a corporation -- instead. Unless they can prove the buyer is attempting to commit fraud in some way, by law condo boards are not entitled to reject a buyer on financial grounds without buying the apartment in question themselves. Despite that, condominium boards, too, are becoming more particular about financial credentials. And landlords with rental properties are also requiring tax returns, credit histories and reference letters. 
But the breach of privacy remains greater in the co-op arena, especially in Manhattan. 
"There are two parts to acceptance by a board," said Ronni Lynn Arougheti, president of Heron Ltd., a management company, and Heron Residential, a brokerage. "They want to make sure the person buying is financially capable of carrying the apartment, and they want to make sure the person will make a good neighbor." 
The board package, usually put together under the tutelage of the broker, can be voluminous, sometimes running many hundreds of pages.
Every building has its own set of requirements, beginning with a purchase application form, either one devised by the board or a standard form put out by the Real Estate Board of New York, that gives such basic data as names and addresses of all potential occupants (children and pets included), occupations, income and education.
But that is only the preface. "Employment must be verified with a letter from the employer that states the job title and annual income," Ms. Arougheti said. "That letter should also say that while it cannot guarantee a bonus, it has awarded them in the past. It should also discuss future raises."
Full disclosure of net worth is critical, and more than any other single factor can tip the balance toward or away from approval.
"A financial statement, which is also provided by the managing agent, often a standard form that has the approval of the co-op board, must be filled out in detail, and substantiating statements must be provided to back up all numbers," said Susan Renfrew, the new president of the Charles H. Greenthal brokerage firm. Until June she was director of East Side sales at Insignia Douglas Elliman.
"Some boards," she said, "require three months of bank and brokerage statements, checking accounts, retirement accounts, lists of any other real estate owned and mortgages held. 
"Two years of tax returns are standard," she continued, "along with W-2 forms. If the purchaser is selling an apartment, a contract of sale for that may be required, along with an appraisal of worth and mortgages still held. 
"If there is to be a mortgage on the new purchase, the mortgage application and commitment letter are included."
In addition, stocks and bonds, life insurance, 401(k)'s and other retirement accounts, trust funds and alimony are taken into consideration. Every line item must be verified, so banks are called upon to substantiate balances. "If an investor has a diverse stock and bond portfolio, we need statements going back 60 or 90 days and 12 bank statements," Mr. Wagner said.
But salary counts for more than investments, whose value tends to fluctuate, especially now. "It's nice to know there are investments to fall back on in case of need, but when we assess the ability to carry an apartment, we look at income," said David A. Rockwell, a senior vice president at Marsh & McLennan who has been president of a 128-unit co-op in Chelsea for 12 years.
"If you are an investment banker largely dependent on bonuses, we would discount the bonuses. If you made $250,000 to $500,000 two years ago, we wouldn't expect that this year." 
Neil J. Binder, co-owner of the Bellmarc Companies and author of "The Ultimate Guide to Buying and Selling Co-ops and Condos in New York City," agreed. "If you have a commission income, the board will want a stronger balance sheet, a lot more wealth to offset uncertain income." 
Entrepreneurs who own their own businesses face a special challenge.
"It is impossible to easily evaluate the value of a business and the amount of income it generates," said Arthur I. Weinstein, a lawyer who is vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. "A letter saying, 'I pay myself X amount of dollars' is difficult, and even the authenticity of tax returns is difficult. 
"People send in photocopies of tax returns, and in smaller buildings they are almost always accepted as accurate," Mr. Weinstein said, "but a building that does more rigorous exams could ask for certification from an accountant or even a copy from the I.R.S."
Such reports are usually covered by the co-op's nonrefundable application fee -- typically, $500 -- although there could be additional charges if an investigation is particularly extensive, Mr. Weinstein said.
By and large, liquid assets that can be readily converted to cash weigh more heavily than personal possessions like art, antiques, yachts and vintage cars, but those, too, must be listed, along with appraisals of their worth. 
"The area of most concern for boards is liquid assets," Ms. Renfrew said. "They want to know if anything were to happen to buyers, if they lose their job or their company downsizes, that there are immediately funds to cover the maintenance. Often, they are looking for twice the value of the apartment in liquid assets. On the Upper East Side the most sought-after buildings may want to see five times the value in liquid assets." 
In Mr. Weinstein's view, concern about the availability of funds can sometimes be exaggerated. "Under current law in cases of default, a co-op's claim for unpaid maintenance takes precedence over most other claims, bank loans, personal debt, credit card debt," he said. "So when a person is in arrears on maintenance, the co-op board almost always gets paid."
By contrast, Mr. Carlson said, "As a rule of thumb, in the boroughs other than Manhattan, they are looking for two to five times the annual maintenance in liquid assets, as opposed to the total value of the unit."
BOARDS also require that reference letters go into the package, typically three personal recommendations attesting to the purchaser's standing in the community and sense of responsibility and three business letters describing professional reputation and dependability. 
"You want diversity in your letters and you want to avoid controversy, so we tell people to avoid using very visible politicians or religious figures," Mr. Purcell of Insignia Douglas Elliman said. "We like to get letters from people who live in co-ops." 
In a course called "Admissions Issues" that he teaches for board members, Mr. Weinstein said, "We urge buildings to call the letter writers asking, 'Did you write that letter?' and 'Is there anything else you would like to add?' That may turn up things people don't want to put in writing."
In Mr. Weinstein's experience, "how hard it is to put together the package is a function of the value of the apartment."
"If it ranges from $75,000 to $350,000, the review is generally based on the documents as submitted," he said. "But from $375,000 up, they start to look for accountant verification. Almost all buildings have at least a rudimentary credit report and as you go up the scale, that might include litigation history. Buildings want to know if the applicant has a habit of suing over inadequate hot water or gets into disputes with neighbors." 
The prospect that a candidate might haul a board into court could be enough to tilt it toward rejection. Boards are not compelled to divulge why they turn applicants down so long as they do not violate city, state and federal civil rights laws banning discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship, children or occupation.
No one keeps records of the number of rejections, but in Mr. Weinstein's experience, they occur less commonly than rejections by lending institutions.
In fact, some boards, especially outside Manhattan, will help candidates whose net worth falls below expectations, in particular young people at the beginning of their careers, by letting them use guarantors or put funds in escrow. Guarantors must be willing to open up their own financial records.
"We try to work with people," said Mr. Carlson, speaking as a member of the board at his own 424-unit building in Forest Hills, Queens. "If someone is on the borderline and is taking a 15-year mortgage, I look to see if they would qualify for a 30-year mortgage," which would mean they would have lower monthly payments and could more easily fit the board's requirement for ratio of housing expenditure to income. 
Rather than conceal whatever blemishes they may have, buyers are urged to address problems with candor. "If there is anything in your application that raises issues, like bad credit in the past, address it up front," Ms. Arougheti said. "Candidates who do that fare better than those who wait for the board to detect something."
What impresses one board might have no positive impact for another. For example, Mr. Wagner said, "We had one buyer for a loft on Prince Street who included 10 pages of photos of his art collection because he wanted to demonstrate that he was not only financially worthy but that he was similar to people already in the community." 
That might not be so effective uptown, where boards are more concerned with bank accounts than with art. "It is safe to say that Fifth and Park Avenues and Central Park West have the most arduous demands," Mr. Purcell said, "but there are some lovely buildings on side streets that are very particular, too." 
In some ways, the board package is meant to be as enlightening to the prospective purchaser as it is to the board. Some of them include documents that purchasers must sign certifying that they understand and accept regulations. 
"Every co-op has rules that pertain to renovation, when you can do repairs in the building, where you can store bicycles and strollers," Ms. Renfrew said. "The purchaser must agree to abide by them and must also sign a lead paint form in which the seller discloses whether they have knowledge of the presence of lead."
Then there is the divisive issue of pets. Some buildings ban dogs altogether, others impose weight limits and still others hold themselves out to be "pet friendly." 
"There is one board that required a certificate from dog obedience school, and I have buyers who don't have one because the husband trained the dog himself," Ms. Arougheti said. While some board members advocated requiring that the dog be sent to a certified training school, the final decision was to admit the dog, and its owners. 
BEFORE the package, a copy of which must be made for each member of the board -- most have seven -- is submitted, it is reviewed by the managing agent and sent back to the prospective buyer's broker if it is deemed lacking in any way. 
"Incomplete applications are not submitted and yet we still get incomplete applications," said Ms. Arougheti, who is the author of a guide called "Hints for Expediting the Process." 
"Usually boards want the package in a certain order," she said. "Some insist on dividers, some say no dividers, some want them loose leaf, some want them bound. Some accept cover letters, other specify no cover letters."
To Christopher Thomas, senior vice president and director of sales for the Brooklyn office of William B. May, distinctions in board attitudes are largely dependent on geography and size. 
"The differences are to a certain extent due to the fact that we have different types of co-ops here," he said.
"Large 100-unit co-ops are the norm in Manhattan and the exception in the landmark areas of Brooklyn we handle: Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope and Cobble Hill. And most large organizations are constrained by their size to be less flexible and need to rely more heavily on well-established policy."
Furthermore, he continued: "For the most part architecture in these neighborhoods is four stories. So in many instances we are dealing with co-op boards that consist of the entire population of a building."
That generates a much less formal process. "Typically," Mr. Thomas said, "the seller runs into the neighbors while they are taking the garbage out and says, 'Oh, by the way, I found a lovely couple to buy. Let's meet so we see if we all feel comfortable.' They get together, usually in the seller's apartment, and if it seems they like the lovely couple, then they ask for the package as confirmation." 
Mr. Thomas believes boards "have gone overboard in Manhattan."
In his area in Brooklyn, he said, "the question they want answered is simple: 'How much is it safe to expect that our new neighbor will earn and will that cover the costs of living in this building?' Most boards see their mandate as verifying the financial qualification of the buyer to purchase at a specified price, but they do not have the desire to be overly intrusive."
GEOGRAPHY is not the only determinant of board behavior, said Mr. Binder, the Bellmarc executive. "When the economy is strong," he said, "boards are tougher and when things weaken, they become a little more accommodating because sellers are more desperate to sell. In a good market they know it's not hard to find another buyer."
Roberto Viceconte, a lawyer, has sat on both sides of the fence. When he bought his co-op in a building in East Rockaway about two years ago, he was taken aback by the amount of information he had to provide. 
"You feel exposed," he said. "We are brought up to be very private about certain things. No one sees our paychecks, tax returns or bank statements. Now you are moving into some place and you have to show all that information to your potential neighbors so you can get in. It's kind of frightening." 
Then he was elected to the board. "Now I understand why we need that information," he said. "Ultimately, we must see if they are financially capable."
When all is said and done, the memories recede. Mr. Viceconte said he does not recall the contents of financial statements when he encounters buyers in the elevator months after approval is granted. "Once we're done with those packages, they are destroyed, and we forget the details," he said.
In fact, Mr. Purcell said, "Finding a property, negotiating, getting a mortgage, moving are stressful in and of themselves. Then add in the element of being judged by a group of strangers, which can be an incredible experience -- like getting into a fraternity or sorority. But we have a unique capacity to forget how painful it is -- and sometimes we even go through it again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Renfrew, the president of the Charles H. Greenthal brokerage firm, holds a class for her agents on handling sales of co-op apartments. (Don Hogan Charles)(pg. 6) Drawing (Gary Hallgren)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%) HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; SALES 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



65 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2629 words

HEADLINE: A State With a History Of Overlooking Its Past 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO 

 BODY:
TUCKED in the rolling hills at the foot of the Ramapo Mountains, the former country manse of the Cooper-Hewitt iron barons awaits visitors. In a two-hour period on a pristine summer day, a lone family stops by Ringwood Manor to be guided through the 51-room National Historic Landmark.
 Walking up the stairs, they could have reached out and touched a John Singer Sargent oil portrait of Peter Cooper. Directly across from the priceless painting are rusted coils popping through an Empire settee, where the silk seat was destroyed by a squirrel 25 years earlier. 
 On an equally sunny day a week earlier, at Monmouth Battlefield in Manalapan, site of the Revolutionary War's most artillery-laden battle and one of Washington's most decisive victories, a man walks his beagle through a vast, grassy field. 
Had the solitary figure bothered to go in the visitor's center, he would have found one small poster detailing Washington's triumphs there. He might also have wished to trace the route of the battle using the lighted three-dimensional model there, though that would have been impossible. It has not worked for 10 years.
Often referred to as the "crossroads of the American Revolution" -- where American soldiers first turned back the British -- New Jersey boasts more Revolutionary War battle sites than any other of the other colonies. Moreover, much of the country's Industrial Revolution began here, labor unions were born here, the phonograph and incandescent lightbulb were invented here, and the father of the theory of relativity lived and died here.
Yet while historic sites like Biltmore Mansion in North Carolina, which surpassed Ringwood Manor as the country's largest home at the turn of the century, or Valley Forge National Park in Pennsylvania, where Washington trained his troops to fight at Monmouth, enjoy a steady stream of visitors in summer, most people in New Jersey are not even aware of the richness of the state's history, never mind where to find it.
History has always been viewed as something of a stepchild in New Jersey by the state agencies that support it -- perhaps because historians are by nature unassuming and therefore less adept at lobbying for financing. Or possibly it is another example of the low self-esteem in which New Jerseyans hold themselves. Whatever the cause, New Jersey's history does not seem to get the respect it deserves.
Frustrating many history advocates is what they see as the state's failure to recognize the value of maintaining these sites, not only to protect the state's past but also to tap into the burgeoning trend in heritage tourism. New Jersey lags far behind other states like Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York, which has turned history tourism into a major industry.
David Cowell, president of the Advocates for New Jersey History, said the effort to promote heritage tourism here began only about five years ago, after a survey by the Center for Urban Policy Research found that visitors in New Jersey were spending $432 million annually, $89 million of which could be directly linked to history-related activities. Yet the state has continued to dole out financing with an eyedropper.
"Heritage tourists provide much more economic benefits than any other form of tourism," said Barbara Mitnick, chairwoman of the New Jersey Historic Trust. "If the state would just realize this, maybe they'd invest in these sites instead of thinking they're pouring money down a hole."
To be sure, not all the state's history is unrecognized. In recent years, a groundswell of support from various groups and a savvier approach to securing grant money has managed to keep many of the state's independently run historic sites humming.
But New Jersey's historic jewels -- those owned and operated by the state -- are in their worst shape ever. Buildings that have been neglected for years await attention as the state's capital improvement budget has been slashed; artifacts valued at millions of dollars are deteriorating because of substandard conditions and a lack of maintenance; programs, staffing and hours have been reduced; and the department that oversees these properties is both leaderless and rudderless.
While all state agencies took significant blows in the recent round of budget cuts, sites and activities tied to the state's colorful history were among those hardest hit.
For instance, $2 million of New Jersey Historical Commission's $4.5 million in grants for 2002 were frozen and then lost after Governor-elect James McGreevey requested last December that all spending be suspended. This year the commission was appropriated just $2.5 million, though in a last-minute reprieve the Treasury Department added another $1 million.
The Garden State Historic Preservation Trust Fund is currently sitting on $11 million in grant funds for "brick-and-mortar" work on historic sites because the state's hiring freeze has prevented the New Jersey Historic Trust from hiring someone to review the 2002 and 2003 grant applications. But even if these funds were to be freed up, they could not be used to finance programs or restoration at state-run historic sites.
"The state-owned sites are in the biggest trouble, and these are the most important sites in the state," said Michael Zuckerman, executive director for the Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts. "They have never been adequately funded, even through the boon years of the 90's."
As many see the problem, the state's historic sites lie buried beneath two layers of government, neither of which puts preservation as a top priority. The division of parks and forestry -- an arm of the Department of Environmental Protection -- operates the state's 57 historic sites, many of which are within the park system itself.
"We're very low down in the pecking order," said Mr. Cowell, who for years has been lobbying either to move the sites from under the auspices of the of the environmental agency, or to create a separate cabinet-level department for history. Several history-related entities, like the state museum and the state archives, were reassigned to the Department of State after a 1997 task force report outlined the sorry state of New Jersey's heritage. But the major sites -- like Princeton and Monmouth Battlefields, Washington's Crossing, Grover Cleveland's birthplace, Batsto Village and Ringwood -- remained within the parks system.
For his part, Bradley M. Campbell, the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, said it made sense that the historic sites remain under his department's gaze, not only so park employees could care for the buildings and grounds, but also because in difficult financial times like these, money could be channeled from other sources within the agency.
Acknowledging what he called "a backlog of neglect" at the state's historic sites, Mr. Campbell said his department was "looking to find nonstate sources of funding for urgently needed projects."
Yet in preparing his budget, it was clear that Mr. Campbell was not looking toward state funds to solve the problem. In the first round, the environmental agency recommended eliminating all capital financing for the resoration of historic sites. This came after the department froze $8.4 million of the $16.5 million appropriated for 2002 capital improvements. In the end, $2.5 million was allocated for capital projects for 2003 within the parks division, the lowest level in the last four years. While the appropriation for capital improvements in the 2003 budget was reduced by more than 80 percent, the parks division's operating budget was reduced by slightly more than 3 percent, from $39.9 million to $38.6 million. 
Last week Mr. Campbell announced the release of $9.3 million of frozen and deferred expenditures as well as $1.8 million for Rockingham in Kingston, Washington's last wartime headquarters where he wrote the farewell orders to his troops, and an additional $2.5 million for a variety of projec ts in the fiscal year 2003, fulfilling Governor McGreevey's promise to spend more than $10 million on capital improvements in the parks this year.
Many refer to Rockingham, a 300-year-old house, as the poster child for what has gone wrong with the state's historic sites. Last summer it was relocated and protected with weatherproofing and tar paper while awaiting the release of the $1.8 million for restoration.
"We're working with treasury to release some of the frozen funds to move forward with a collection of projects we expect to announce soon," said Mr. Campbell, noting that in recent years, money had been appropriated but not spent. "We expect to spend more in parks' capital projects than has been spent in recent years."
In addition to Rockingham, said the acting parks director, Dick Barker, the sites to benefit from the new funds are the central railroad terminal at Liberty State Park, the crown jewel in the state park system, which will receive $3 million of the total $9.3 million, Batsto Village's visitors center, the Barnegat Lighthouse and the general store at Allaire Village. 
Other major projects, like shoring up the 18th-century ruins at Long Pond Ironworks in New Milford, or installing temperature controls at Ringwood Manor to preserve the mansion's multimillion-dollar art and artifacts collection, continue to be put off. Smaller "nonessential" projects like providing a public restroom at Grover Cleveland's house or fixing the lighted model at Monmouth Battlefield have little chance of ever being addressed. 
"We just defer those jobs," said Mr. Barker. "They just don't get done. The holes in the roof might get a little bit worse, the buildings and facilities will deteriorate for another year. There are lots of concerns when you're talking about our historic resources."
With so many projects going wanting, the skeptics have yet to be convinced of Governor McGreevey's commitment to historic sites, especially when looking at the huge gaps in the park division's current management team.
In May, the Department of Environmental Preservation cited Gregory Marshall for his work on behalf of historic preservation. While most other awards went to historic sites or projects, Mr. Marshall was chosen because "every so often, someone surfaces whose contributions to the advancement of historic preservation and the preservation of historic sites in New Jersey is so deserving of recognition that an award is given to one individual." 
Three months earlier, Commissioner Campbell had fired Mr. Marshall, who for 18 years was director of the division of parks and forestry. While Mr. Marshall was considered by some park employees to be a taskmaster, he was generally regarded as an earnest advocate of historic sites. A group of concerned citizens, including Mr. Cowell and Maureen Ogden, a former assemblywoman and champion of the state's historic past, met with the commissioner to try to save Mr. Marshall's job, but "it was already a fait accompli," according to Ms. Odgen.
Among Mr. Marshall's initiatives was the American Revolutionary War campaign, which resulted in a brochure and driving tour guide of 22 Revolutionary War sites throughout the state. 
"We had some very good projects going on that were halfway in the pipeline until the budget got screwy," said Mr. Marshall, who now works for the National Park Service in New York Harbor. "Life is about priorities. You have to make decisions about what gets done and what doesn't."
Shortly after Mr. Marshall left, his deputy director, Carl Nordstrom, who had been with the department more than 20 years, left to take a nongovernment job. Mr. Barker had also put in for retirement, but agreed to stay on as acting director until Nov. 30, by which time Commissioner Campbell said he expected to have hired "an excellent replacement."
The parks division suffered more loss when many of the senior management team chose to take an early retirement package offered by the state as a cost-cutting measure. Since July 1, all four of the regional superintendent posts have been vacant, while six park superintendents and 20 other park employees chose early retirement. For now, Mr. Barker said he was looking into interim appointments while awaiting permission to begin filling the more crucial posts.
Commissioner Campbell said he preferred to view the clean sweep as an opportunity. "A generation of leadership has moved on, which presents short-term challenges," he said, "but it also opens us up to new thinking and a more diverse government."
This is the opportunity that awaits: The Task Force on New Jersey History, which spent 18 months investigating the resources and producing a four-volume report in June 1997, concluded that the state needed to spend $10 million to hire adequate staff for programming, operations and outreach at its historic sites, plus another $17.5 million to meet the conservation needs of the millions of historic artifacts belonging to New Jersey.
In the meantime, with limited funds and a reduced staff, public programming at many historic sites has taken a serious blow. 
Besides a dedicated corps of volunteers, most of the history-related activities fall to the 24 historic interpretive specialists working throughout the park system, whose job description includes everything from curator to tour guide. Several of the 57 historic sites have no staff on hand, and many of the sites are open to the public less than 10 hours a week. 
For example, the Craig House, used as a field hospital to treat British soldiers during the Battle of Monmouth, is open four hours each Sunday from May to October, with the entire staff consisting of volunteers from the Friends of Monmouth Battlefield State Park.
For years, Richard Walling, president of the Friends, has been asking the state to pay for construction of a tour road through the park and to restore a second house to be used as a museum dedicated to women of the Revolutionary War. In 1994, $1 million was budgeted for new fencing, landscaping and interpretive signs. Eight years later, Mr. Walling said, the state is still working on the text for the panels.
"This is a national landmark, the equivalent of Mount Vernon," said Mr. Walling. "Yet as you drive around, you see nothing to indicate the battle of 20,000 men that took place here. No markers, no monuments, no cannons. There's no vision, no long-range plan for this park, just as there's no vision or plan for all the historic sites in the state."
Indeed, some sites have had to curtail public visits because of the poor condition of the structures. In its heyday, Batsto Mansion in the Pine Barrens, home of one of the country's earliest ironmasters and later of the Philadelphia industrialist Joseph Wharton, had seven tour guides with two or three groups touring the mansion at any given time, said Bud Wilson, a local historian.
But the building's cracked foundation and shifting porch was causing concerns not only for the integrity of the building but also the safety of visitors themselves. Consequently, the mansion was recently closed so the state could determine how to save it. The structural survey has been completed, but Al Payne, the project engineer for the parks division, said the restoration work, estimated at $600,000, was not included in the current budget cycle.
Short of an actual capital outlay, supporters have been pushing for a dedicated source of financing for the state's historic sites, either through a bond issue or a surtax on hotels, restaurants and other tourist-related industries. But so far, the Legislature is not buying.
"We need strident, outspoken advocates for New Jersey's history and a stable source of funding for these sites," said Ms. Ogden. "Some of these buildings and artifacts, if they are ignored for another 10 years, are just going to be lost and that's too bad."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 4 about the condition of New Jersey's historic sites misstated the location of the Long Pond Ironworks. It is in West Milford, not New Milford.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Monmouth Battlefield in Manalapan, is the site of the Revolutionary War's most artillery-laden battle and one of Washington's most decisive victories, left, right and center.; Ringwood Manor, left, at the foot of the Ramapo Mountains, longingly awaits visitors to tour the 51-room National Historic Landmark that was once home to iron barons. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The 51-room Ringwood Manor, left and right, was the nation's largest home until the turn of the last century. Though renovations are going on there, many more have been put off. The visitors center at Monmouth Battlefield State Park, below also needs repairs. Below it, a painting from the park. (Left and above, photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times); (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRENDS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PAINTING (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LOBBYING (69%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: CAPUZZO, JILL P; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



66 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Investment Clubs Are Zeroing In on Real Estate

BYLINE:  By LEAH BETH WARD 

 BODY:
AT a recent club gathering at J J North's Grand Buffet, an all-you-can-eat restaurant in Portland, Ore., dozens of people took turns introducing themselves to the crowd of more than 100. "Hi, my name is Josh," one of them said nervously, "and I just did my first investment this week." Cheers erupted, and Josh Fuhrer, 28, a local part-time actor, blushed with pride.
 Mr. Fuhrer wasn't talking about just any investment. He and the others in the group, many of them undoubtedly concerned about volatility on Wall Street, are turning their attention instead to Main Street and the physical assets that they can see, touch and drive by -- from studio apartments to single-family homes to multi-unit apartment buildings. The Northwest Real Estate Investors, as the Oregon group is called, meets regularly, in almost support-group style, to trade tips and swap stories about real estate investing in the Portland region. 
 Whether the club and others like it will reap long-term profits remains to be seen. Nonetheless, the popularity of these groups has been climbing rapidly. 
National figures are hard to come by, but real estate investment clubs from New York City to Charlotte, N.C., to Portland say their ranks are swelling. The National Real Estate Investors Association, which offers services to clubs (www.nationalreia.com), estimates that there are some 600 real estate investment groups nationwide, nearly double the number just two years ago. Several have popped up recently in Arizona, Ohio and Texas, for example.
The Portland club was incorporated last August with 30 members; it now has 160. Interest has been so strong that it has added two meetings a month, bringing the total to three. The group has also had to book larger meeting space, according to its president, Mark LaNore, a loan officer at the Lighthouse Financial Group, a mortgage company in Portland.
Mr. LaNore and others say that now is a good time to invest in real estate: demand is high and interest rates are low.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 6.43 percent for the week ended Friday, according to Freddie Mac, a government-sponsored buyer of home mortgages. That was up from 6.34 percent the week earlier, the lowest since the agency began tracking the rate 31 years ago.
Sales of existing homes, meanwhile, have been brisk for much of the year: they were running at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.1 million in June, and the National Association of Realtors is forecasting record sales for the year. And new-home sales rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of one million in June, a record.
"There is more money chasing real estate than there is real estate," Mr. LaNore said. "It's nuts, but it's the game right now."
That is where real estate investment clubs are supposed to help. The clubs serve as an informal repository for available inventory. Buyers and sellers announce at meetings what they are looking for or what they have for sale. Then they trade business cards. Members can also attend workshops and meet professionals -- lawyers, accountants and real estate agents who can give free advice on deals.
Real estate clubs, of course, have been around for many years -- at least as long as the phrase "no money down," the pitch of late-night TV real estate promoters who sell tapes, videos and books on how to become a millionaire without sweating the equity. Most real estate clubs, though, don't stump for such salesmen, preferring to let inexperienced members learn the ropes by mingling with the more seasoned members.
Nicholas Zampetti Jr. of Bogota, N.J., president of the Metropolitan Real Estate Investors Association, says his club doesn't promote real estate as a fast path to riches. "Long term, the money is in holding on to property, not flipping it," he said, referring to the practice of buying and selling quickly for a profit.
His group started during the 1985 real estate boom but lost membership in the bull market for stocks of the 1990's. Now the club is growing again. "With the Dow down, we're seeing 25 new members a month, Mr. Zampetti said. "It used to be just about seven."
ASK real estate club members what they like about investing in property and they invariably cite its tangible nature. (Try kicking the tires of a mutual fund, they say.) They also like the fact that they can pick their property investments. A 401(k) plan portfolio is typically limited to the offerings of a mutual fund company chosen by an employer. As Enron employees have learned so painfully, an employer does not always encourage diversification of the plan's holdings.
As an investment, real estate has fared much better than the stock market of late. An investment of $1,000 at the height of the stock market in March 2000, would be worth $1,501 today if the money had been put into real estate mutual funds, for example, compared with $639 if it had been placed in a fund mimicking the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, or $211 if invested in the Nasdaq composite, according to Lipper Inc., the fund-tracking company.
Many financial advisers say real estate has a place in the average investor's portfolio because of its relatively low volatility and relatively high yield. But real estate assets can be what Michael Acton, a pension fund adviser in Boston, calls "lumpy," or illiquid.
"Most individuals are probably not well served by going out and investing in real estate," said Mr. Acton, director of research at AEW Capital Management of Boston, which has about $7 billion in real estate under management for pension funds and institutions.
As an alternative, Mr. Acton advises people to consider publicly traded real estate investment trusts, or REIT's, which invest in real estate, from shopping malls to industrial parks.
REIT's have done well so far this year. The average dividend yield is about 6 percent, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, while share prices have far surpassed those of stocks.
Dennis R. Capozza, a professor of finance and real estate at the University of Michigan School of Business in Ann Arbor, also urges caution. Newcomers to real estate investing, he said, are likely to make many of the same mistakes as novice stock investors: overpaying, selling too quickly or holding too long, or simply being unable to obtain crucial information as fast as those who are closer to the market.
"All the problems you have with amateurs in the stock market you also have in real estate," Mr. Capozza said.
Mr. Fuhrer, the actor from Portland, might once have agreed with such an assessment, but he says his real estate club and the connections he has made through it have helped him learn the ropes.
Mr. Fuhrer says he began studying real estate on his own a few years ago and recently paid the $95 in annual dues to join Northwest Real Estate Investors. After his first meeting, he said he took the leap. A friend who is a real estate agent was looking for someone to buy assets from a court-ordered dissolution of a partnership; the properties were being sold at less than their market value to satisfy a judgment. Mr. Fuhrer sensed a deal and told his friend that he could find an investor to buy the undervalued assets for 80 cents on the dollar. He began networking at the real estate club and met John E. Laine-Reinders, whose company, Creative Capital Networks, buys discounted properties for investors. 
The two worked out a deal that gives Mr. Furher a finder's fee of 5 percent of the equity in each property for sale. Mr. Laine-Reinder's investors will spruce up the properties and sell them at market value. As many as 27 properties, mostly single-family homes, could be sold under the deal over the next year. Mr. Fuhrer says he stands to make as much as $80,000 over the coming year on the deal.
"Investing in real estate doesn't just mean you have to buy property. I'm not out any cash or credit," he said.
SOMETIMES club members pool money. Wesley Barney of Flushing, Queens, president of the Ultimate Investors Real Estate Club, which started about 15 years ago, said he recently joined with an accountant and a roofer to buy a 12-unit apartment complex, whose owners were late on payments, in Independence, Mo. He had learned of the property through his real estate club contacts and approached the bank holding the mortgage. His group negotiated a new loan and the bank avoided having to categorize the original loan as a nonperforming asset. Mr. Barney's group, meanwhile, now has a source of income.
Not every deal is as smooth. Kraig Mead, 42, of Milwaukie, Ore., who arranges transportation for commercial shippers, said he found himself in a jam when a fixer-upper house he bought two years ago turned out to be a former illegal methamphetamine lab. Mr. Mead remodeled the home, putting $20,000 into flooring, wallboard and carpeting. He moved in with his family and started a home day care center. Then one day state health officials showed up and declared the house a hazardous site. The day care operation shut down and the Meads moved out. Mr. Mead, who is now looking to sell the place, is liable for the cost of testing for contamination and any resulting cleanup. He said he has been told that the cost could range from $3,000 to $50,000. State officials must certify the cleanup.
"Don't forget that you are responsible," he advised club members at a recent meeting, "even if it wasn't your fault."
What is his advice, in hindsight? Call state health and environmental officials before buying anything to make sure that it is not on a list of properties to be seized for cleanup. 
Robert Mularz, 56, of Livingston, N.J., a credit manager for a plastics company, also advises average investors not to expect to get rich quick. "I learned that it's very time-consuming and that you can make mistakes," he said.
On the other hand, he advises newcomers not to fall victim to "paralysis of analysis," or overanalyzing a deal.
"Fear kept me from getting started for a long time," he said. "Now I'm sorry I didn't start sooner."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two investors, John E. Laine-Reinders, left, and John Payne, center, found this house in Portland, Ore., with help from Josh Fuhrer at a real estate investment club. (John Gress for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTING (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); STATISTICS (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BONDS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (60%) REAL ESTATE; INVESTMENT CLUBS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (58%)

TICKER: RLE (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: WARD, LEAH BETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) OREGON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (78%); ARIZONA, USA (68%); OHIO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



67 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTS POINT; 
Some Breathe Easier With Plant's Last Gasp

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
For most New Yorkers, the debate over the city's decision to stop recycling glass and plastic on July 1 is abstract, turning on environmental and budget issues. But on Casanova Street in industrial Hunts Point, the consequences of the change are painfully concrete.
 That's where Hunts Point Recycling Corporation, one of four companies under contract with the Department of Sanitation to receive and process materials for recycling, once ran a round-the-clock, 1,500-tons-a-week operation. More than 100 people, mostly Bronx residents, have lost their jobs as work has slowed to a halt, leaving eight employees doing mostly cleanup. Even they will be laid off within a few weeks. 
 "We're finished, we're done," said the company's general manager, Jeffrey Berkowitz.
Ruben Gonzalez, one of the remaining workers, added: "The only alternative is unemployment benefits. And when that runs out, what are they going to do?" 
Mr. Gonzalez, 39, was referring to workers who had already been laid off, but he could have been talking about himself. Along with his wife, an unemployed factory worker, he is raising three children in the nearby section of Melrose.
Still, as the workers struggle, some residents are happy that the company will be gone. In a neighborhood plagued by asthma problems that many believe are related to the thousands of trucks that stream through every week, the elimination of 300 weekly recycling trips is welcome. 
"It's a problem with people losing their jobs, but it's better for us," said Carmen Reyes, who lives near the plant. "There are a lot of asthmatic families out here."
Problems with the recycling company went beyond its trucks. Neighbors, community activists and union officials complained that the plant was filthy and working conditions were poor.
The company still owes $300,000 to the city, said a Department of Sanitation spokeswoman, for violations that included litter outside the station and failure to clean the inside floors. Last week, rats outnumbered workers processing cardboard, which is still being recycled, in the only one of four buildings still operating.
Mr. Berkowitz admitted that the company had violations, but defended its practices.
"My feeling is, we were not a bad neighbor," said Mr. Berkowitz, who called activists who criticized his operation rabble-rousers. Given the contract he was obliged to uphold and the physical restrictions of the plant, "what they wanted to see was an impossibility," he said.
The plant's replacement may not please the community. Mr. Berkowitz said that a waste management company was negotiating to buy the space. SETH KUGEL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Only eight workers remain at the Hunts Point Recycling Corporation. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ASTHMA (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ASTHMA 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTS POINT RECYCLING CORP 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



68 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BOERUM HILL; 
Bring In da Noise, And You'll Be Fined

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR 

 BODY:
In the last five years, the so-called rebirth of Smith Street has been, by all accounts, a smashing economic success. But as a sleepier, more old-fashioned way of life gives way to a flourishing nightclub and restaurant scene, the strip has discovered a big-city woe: noise ordinances and the stiff penalties that come with them.
 Garrett McConnell, the owner of a Smith Street performing arts studio and wine bar called the East End Ensemble, one of five businesses ticketed recently, said she has received three violation notices from the city's Department of Environmental Protection, each carrying fines starting at $1,750. Ms. McConnell said she keeps the club's doors and windows closed and does not allow people in the garden after 10 p.m. But until a city inspector paid a visit, she had not been told there was a problem. Four nearby bars received similar violations, she said. 
 Charles G. Sturcken, chief of staff for the agency, said inspectors are not required to give warnings. "If noise is audible from the outside of the premises, we have the right to issue violations," he said, adding that fines usually start at $700. 
Capt. Thomas J. Harris of the 76th Precinct, who has met with local business owners to discuss the problem, said his precinct had not received any complaints about the five businesses affected.
As economic development and lower crime rates have made the neighborhood more attractive, Captain Harris said, "I think we're the victims of our own success."
Given that there are 40 clubs and restaurants along the 14-block strip, most of them having arrived in the last three years, the number of complaints and offenses have been few, said Bette Stoltz, executive director of the South Brooklyn Local Development Corporation. "We're really talking about a very small percentage of people whose sensitivities are greater than almost everybody else," she said, "or who, on the other end of the spectrum, lose control over their own environment." 
If the city continues to issue summonses and impose fines, which can double and quadruple with subsequent ticketing, some Smith Street business owners fear that their enterprises might be in danger. 
"We're talking about $10,000 worth of fines," Ms. McConnell said. "You could put a lot of small businesses out of business really quick." TARA BAHRAMPOUR

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garrett McConnell, owner of an arts studio and wine bar on Smith Street, with petitions and statements of support. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NUISANCE (77%); ORDINANCES (77%); NOISE POLLUTION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); STREET ART (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); CRIME RATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; NOISE; FINES (PENALTIES); RESTAURANTS 

PERSON: BAHRAMPOUR, TARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



69 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I. 

BYLINE:  By ED BOLAND Jr.; E-mail: fyi@nytimes.com

 BODY:
 The Secret Subway

Q. I was told New York's first subway tunnel was built in secret. How was that possible and why was it done?

A. It was possible because the tunnel was only about a block long. The work was done on the sly because of one man's determination not to be bullied by City Hall.
 By the mid-1800's, the streets of Lower Manhattan were choked with pedestrians and trolleys. Enter one Alfred Ely Beach, inventor and co-owner of The New York Sun. Beach had heard of a pneumatic mail tube that had been built in London in 1866 and used air pressure to move parcels through tunnels underground. He had also heard of thrill seekers sneaking into the tube to hitch rides on those parcels. An idea was hatched.
Beach was determined to build a pneumatic tube to carry people, and he was equally determined not to be taken to the cleaners by Boss Tweed, who received kickbacks on every construction project and trolley fare in the city. Building the subway in secret was the only way to avoid City Hall's sticky fingers.
In 1868, Beach rented the basement of Devlin's Clothing Store on the corner of Broadway and Warren Street, and the clandestine work began at night. As workers dug the 312-foot tunnel beneath Broadway, from Warren to Murray Street, bags of soil were carried away on covered wagons with muffled wheels.
Once the tunnel was dug, Beach built a giant fan to move a car in the tunnel. He spared no expense on the waiting room, which included a fountain, chandeliers and a grand piano.
On Feb. 28, 1870, Beach opened his pneumatic subway, and an astonished public clamored to take the 25-cent ride. Boss Tweed, however, was not a fan. He had Gov. John Hoffman veto legislation to extend the subway to Central Park. Beach tried again in 1873 after Tweed's fall, but a financial panic set in that year and subway plans fell by the wayside.
Eventually, Beach gave up and his tunnel was used as a shooting gallery and wine cellar. Beach died in 1896, eight years before a subway system was built in New York.

Gateway to the 7 Seas

Q. When I drive along West Street in Manhattan across from Little West 12th Street, I see an old metal arch that says "White Star" and "Cunard Line." What is its history?

A. The rusting old arch on Pier 54 recalls the days when luxurious passenger ships were the stylish way to cross the ocean. The arch was a gateway for passengers of the two cruise lines.
It was on this pier in 1912 that the cruise ship Carpathia unloaded survivors picked up from the Titanic disaster. In 1915, the pier was the launching point for the fateful voyage of the Lusitania. A total of 1,200 people died when it was torpedoed by a German U-boat.
Today, the Hudson River Conservancy owns the arch and the pier. Alex Dudley, a conservancy spokesman, says the arch is still structurally sound and will probably be refurbished.
The conservancy will incorporate the arch into the Hudson River Park, 550 acres of waterfront parkland extending from Battery Park to 59th Street. Although exact plans for the arch have yet to be determined, the entire park is scheduled to be completed in 2005.

A Brazilian Patriarch

Q. I recognize most of the names on statues around Bryant Park, but Jose Bonifacio de Andrada e Silva has me at a loss. A little help, please?

A. Chances are he was before your time. Jose Bonifacio de Andrada e Silva (1763 to 1838), is regarded as the architect of Brazil's independence. A geologist, statesman and scholar, he was a contributor to the Constitution of Brazil. Jose Lima's sculpture of Bonifacio was a gift from Brazil to the United States in 1953. ED BOLAND Jr.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BEACHES (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (88%); CRUISES (87%); MARINE VESSELS (84%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); VETO (62%); MARINE SHIPPING (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

PERSON: BONIFACIO DE ANDRACA E SILVA, JOSE; BOLAND, ED JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; BRYANT PARK (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



70 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: GOOD EATING; 
Taking the Plunge

BYLINE:  E-mail: eating@nytimes.com

 BODY:
 Despite the shaky economy, new restaurants continue to open around the city. Here are a few that have opened this year. 

ALMA
(718) 643-5400; 187 Columbia Street (Degraw Street), Cobble Hill, Brooklyn; $; $25 and Under: 7/10/02

Alma may be in an odd place -- near a shipyard, car lots and a live poultry market -- but it would be hard to find better Mexican food anywhere in New York. Gary Jacobson's cooking is thoughtful and precise, with distinctive splashes of spice and heat and brilliant sauces.

ATELIER
**
rating: two stars
(212) 521-6125; 50 Central Park South (Avenue of the Americas), in the Ritz-Carlton Hotel; $$$$; Review: 6/5/02

The chef, Gabriel Kreuther, has an elegant touch and a distinctive way with herbs and vegetables, treating them like co-stars instead of supporting players, in nearly every dish at this ambitious, refined restaurant.

CARNE
(212) 663-7010; 2737 Broadway (105th Street); $; $25 and Under: 5/8/02

In an area with plenty of inexpensive restaurants, one was lacking: a grown-up place for a well-made cocktail, a thick steak and good wine. Carne delivers with plain but satisfying appetizers, juicy cuts of meat and a thoughtful wine list.

CRAFTBAR
(212) 780-0880; 47 East 19th Street (near Park Avenue South); $; $25 and Under: 3/6/02

Craftbar, the new, casual adjunct to Craft, sets itself leagues beyond the typical low-rent sandwich shop. And yet, its snacks, soups, salads and sandwiches, supplemented each day by two meat, fish and pasta dishes, exude the simplicity of a wine bar.

FIAMMA OSTERIA
***
rating: three stars
(212) 653-0100; 206 Spring Street (Sullivan Street); $$$; Review: 5/22/02

This beautifully realized restaurant, the latest addition to Stephen Hanson's restaurant empire, is satisfying in every way. The chef, Michael White, plays variations on traditional Italian food while staying rooted in the core principles of Italian cooking.

OLICA
***
rating: three stars
(212) 583-0001; 145 East 50th Street (near Lexington Avenue); $$$; Review: 3/20/02

Olica is an even better restaurant than its predecessor L'Actuel. Jean-Yves Schillinger's food is serious and well presented, with the simplicity and clarity that only a complex culinary tradition can produce.

WASHINGTON PARK
**
rating: two stars
(212) 529-4400; 24 Fifth Avenue (Ninth Street); $$$$; Review: 6/12/02

Washington Park, with its pale lemon walls, straw-seat chairs and waiters in Thomas Pink shirts, takes its casualness seriously. The sunny, airy surroundings seem perfectly suited to the simple market-inspired cooking of Jonathan Waxman.

Summaries taken from reviews use the star ratings. Others are taken from the $25 and Under column (+) and articles (++), and capsule revies from New York Today: www.nytoday.com (+++).

What the Stars Mean

**** -- Extraordinary
*** -- Excellent
** -- Very Good
* -- Good
None Poor to Satisfactory

Price Range
Based on the cost of a three-course dinner, per person, tax, tip and drinks not included.

$ -- $25 and under
$$ -- $25 to $40
$$$ -- $40 to $55
$$$$ -- $55 and over

Past Reviews -- Good Eating columns back to June 1998, along with reviews from The Times and capsule reviews by Times critics of additional restaurants not reviewed in the newspaper, are available on New York Today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); POULTRY (71%); DRINKING PLACES (65%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



71 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Term Insurance Turns Long Term

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
TERM life insurance started as a type of coverage that people bought year to year. Then it gradually became a long-range proposition, with 20-year policies the most popular. Four years ago, insurers began extending the term to 30 years in many parts of the country, and in the last two weeks such policies quietly became available in New York for the first time.
 The 30-year policies have their advantages. They lock in a set annual cost that, because of inflation, becomes gradually more affordable. The policies also protect against the danger that a person's health will deteriorate and make new coverage either exorbitant or impossible to get at any price. 
 But consumer advocates, and even some insurers, say the longer term policies are not for everyone. They caution, for example, against making a 30-year commitment.
"Look at your own life," said Melvin J. Feinberg, a senior executive at the New York Life Insurance Company, which does not plan to sell the longer-term policies. "Do you think in any way you could have predicted how your financial needs were going to change over the last 30 years?"
People lose their jobs, take pay cuts, divorce and as a result, often drop their coverage. That can be particularly costly with 30-year policies because their premiums often run about three times the premiums of 10-year policies. 
Glenn S. Daily, a life insurance consultant in Manhattan, said a shorter policy might be preferable because prices have been dropping sharply for term life, which provides coverage for a specified period, as opposed to whole life, which extends over a lifetime. Better, he says, to buy 10 years of coverage with the possibility, at expiration, of buying a new, cheaper policy. To guard against a change in health that makes getting a new policy impossible, Mr. Daily suggests buying a 10-year policy that guarantees future coverage, albeit at higher premiums.
The ideal customer for a 30-year policy, he said, "is somebody who just wants to buy coverage and not have to think about it again for a very long time."
"You get the invoice every year and you pay it," he said. "It's simple, and there is something to be said for that." It is also substantially less expensive than whole life coverage.
Four companies are now selling 30-year term life in New York, according to Byron Udell, the chief executive of AccuQuote, an online and telephone brokerage firm that offers coverage from hundreds of companies. The North American Company for Life and Health Insurance of New York introduced the first of the policies in the state on July 22, he said. The annual premium was $790 for $250,000 in coverage for a 45-year-old man who did not smoke and was in excellent health. But the William Penn Life Insurance Company of New York and the Union Central Life Insurance Company quickly came out with the same coverage for less: $690 a year for William Penn and $730 for Union Central. Last Wednesday, the SBLI USA Mutual Life Insurance Company offered the coverage for $837.50. (That same customer would pay, on average, around $225 a year for a 10-year policy and $400 for 20 years.)
"Almost all the major companies are working feverishly to bring out their version of these policies," Mr. Udell said. "There will probably be a dozen of them out there by Labor Day."
The 30-year policies have become the second-best-selling term coverage, he said, accounting for 20 percent of his sales, behind 20-year policies, at 55 percent. At John Hancock Financial Services, which plans to sell the policies in New York by year's end, Paul Strong, a vice president, said the longer coverage was likely to appeal to younger customers. "Maybe 40 and below," he said. "We're talking in terms of a family and taking them through college. The 30 years hits that pretty well. And you have that peace of mind."
UNTIL April, insurance laws in New York had included various restrictions that made it virtually unprofitable for insurers to offer 30-year term life. But after heavy lobbying by the insurance companies, the State Legislature, noting that the coverage was available in other states and that customers seemed to want it, decided that it was time for a change.
Mr. Udell says 30-year term policies can lead to lush profits for insurers from customers who cancel their coverage. But he says he values the security of the longer policies. 
"They give the client the flexibility to walk away anytime during the 30 years," he said. "But they assure the client that the carrier cannot walk away." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (91%); TERM LIFE INSURANCE (91%); WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LAYOFFS (67%) LIFE INSURANCE 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (91%); WILLIAM PENN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK (84%); NORTH AMERICAN CO FOR LIFE & HEALTH INSURANCE (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



72 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
To Start a Men's Line, A Pitch to Women

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: HINGHAM, Mass. 

 BODY:
ARNOLD B. ZETCHER, the president and chief executive of Talbots, has had a good time opening his mail. A woman in California sent him family portraits of herself, her children and her mother all dressed in Talbots clothing. Another woman sent him a photograph of her closet door, which she had painted red after the Talbots signature storefront. Then there was the customer who mailed him blue pajamas she had ordered through the catalog. She did not like the color and asked him for the pink ones. 
 Talbots depends on a loyal customer base of older, conservative women who feel a bond with the company. 
 "We do have what I feel is a very special kind of relationship," said Mr. Zetcher, who joined Talbots as president in 1987. He sends his best customers personalized, if mass-produced, letters and gifts like scarves and chocolate. Devoted women 35 and older have kept the 846 Talbots stores worldwide profitable while other retailers have lost money. 
Now Mr. Zetcher is exploiting that loyalty. His company has started photographing a 24-page supplement to its fall catalog that will introduce Talbots clothing for men. 
With a firm belief that the way to a man's closet is through his wife, Mr. Zetcher expects the company's current customers to buy generously for their male loved ones this holiday season, easing them into the idea that Talbots is for guys, too. 
A splashy rollout is unlikely. Mr. Zetcher is introducing this line with excruciating care, after months of focus groups in which men were grilled about everything from sweater preferences to store decor.
"We have done a massive amount of research just to establish what the logo is going to be," Mr. Zetcher said. As a result, the company traded the gold oval logo, still used for women's clothing, for a subdued pewter background with blue letters that say Talbots Mens. 
If the catalog supplement, which features sweaters, shirts, trousers, sports jackets, ties and some outerwear, gets a nibble from its 750,000 recipients, Talbots plans to open six men's stores in 2003. 
Earnings at the company, based here, rose 10 percent last year, to $127 million, on a 1 percent increase in sales, to $1.61 billion, which included $267 million from its catalogs. 
Men's clothing is not exactly a growth industry. With domestic retail sales of $50.9 billion last year, it is roughly three-fifths the size of the women's clothing industry. And most apparel retailers have suffered from the weak economy. NPD Group Inc., a market research company in Port Washington, N.Y., said sales of both men's and women's clothing fell about 7 percent last year. 
But officials at Talbots, aware that most men consider clothes shopping a chore, see a niche in giving men a small, tasteful selection of brand-name clothes that will not overwhelm them. "In every market, there's often a local, independent, upscale men's retailer, a great local men's store, and that's more of what we're looking to provide," Mr. Zetcher said. "It's not this vast sea of merchandise. It's a nicely edited, upscale assortment in a nice environment with a high degree of service."
The company's slow wade into men's clothes reflects a lesson learned in 1997, when Talbots abruptly stocked shelves with short hemlines and Day-Glo colors that customers shunned. Sales slumped. "We blew it," Mr. Zetcher acknowledged. "We got too young. The styles and colors weren't right. It was just a lot of things that went wrong."
"But we learned from it," he said. "We put a lot of things in place to prevent that from happening again."
He calls them his checks and balances: an executive merchandising committee now consults with store directors, and Mr. Zetcher personally examines new styles before they come near a store. 
"We've got a few more hands in the pot," he said, including his own. "I spend an awful lot of time talking to the customer. I do have a sense of what classic is and what the customer might like." 
For the men's division, he has arranged for a separation of powers similar to management of the Talbots Kids line, which became its own department five years ago. "We are not really afraid, because we are segmentized," he said. "We have different people doing different things, and there are only a few of us involved in all of the things."
One of them is Harold B. Bosworth, senior vice president of the company, general manager for Talbots Kids and now the overseer of the men's division. Even when talking about men's clothes, he is thinking about women. 
"Women are willing to pay more for men's clothes" than their own, Mr. Bosworth said. They will demand more in return, however. 
"The expected quality in men's wear is perceived to be better," he said. "You better execute and deliver a better product."
THE design has been left to John Phillips, who once was in charge of design at Federated Department Stores merchandising group. So far the offerings include no suits, but plenty of other staples, like an Italian wool and cashmere blend sport coat, a mercerized cotton pullover, and a fawn-colored leather jacket. A V-neck sweater, the color of squash, is about as fashion forward as Talbots Mens is willing to step. 
Kurt Barnard, an industry analyst who writes Barnard's Retail Trend Report, said Talbots is trying to muscle in on a sector with established players like Brooks Brothers and Jos. A. Bank.
"It is going to be difficult for Talbots to wrest market share from competitors that are not going to easily let go," Mr. Barnard said.
More significant, "it's difficult to go through a sex change in any form whatsoever," he said. "It does carry risks. There is no question in my mind that a store that has always symbolized fashion in women is going to have a hard time saying to men, 'Come on in, it's cool here.' "
Few women's clothing brands have effortlessly added men to their clientele. Adrienne Vittadini and Anne Klein both fell short with their men's wear ventures. Liz Claiborne and Jones New York have had some success, but their main showcases are department stores, where men are already willing to tread.
The road is difficult both ways. Nautica, historically manly, pulled back from women's sportswear in 1998 after two unsuccessful ventures, one through a licensee, but it is currently trying to make a go of Nautica jeans and sleepwear for women. The theory is that an established label, even one associated with a particular sex, holds more sway with consumers than an unfamiliar name.
Even going gender-neutral can be a touchy subject. Limited Brands is changing its Structure label to Express for Men, already raising eyebrows among young men who think of Express as their girlfriends' destination at the mall. 
Being a guy, Mr. Zetcher is aware that men might cringe at shopping in the same stores as their wives. Talbots will experiment with sites to determine if the men's stores should adjoin the women's stores, stay a safe distance away at the opposite end of the mall or stand alone.
He puts faith in the focus groups. "This masculine thing is really important, and if we can accomplish that, we're quite confident there will be great acceptance," he said. 
There will have to be. He can't rely on the wives and mothers forever. "It can't just be women buying for men," he said. "Down the road, it's got to be a good mix."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After months of focus groups to establish men's fashion preferences, Talbots plans to give men a tasteful selection that will not overwhelm them. (Montage by The New York Times) Chart: "Going After the Guys"Talbots will introduce a 24-page mens wear supplement to its fall catalog in an effort to establish a niche in mens wear, a much smaller market than womens apparel, the companys mainstay. Sales in both categories fell last year. National sales of all mens and womens apparel, in billions. Womens apparel 1999: $92.92000: 95.72001: 89.3 Mens apparel 1999: $55.42000: 54.82001: 50.9 (Source: NPDFashionworld Consumer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEN (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); BONDS (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%) APPAREL; CATALOGS; MEN; WOMEN 

COMPANY: TALBOTS INC (92%); NPD GROUP INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: TALBOTS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%) SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES; 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



73 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Suzuki Beefs Up Its Car Warranties 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE KREBS 

 BODY:
THE automakers' warranty wars escalated last week, with Suzuki firing the latest volley. Saying it now offers "America's best warranty" -- a claim that other automakers dispute -- Suzuki said its 2002 and 2003 vehicles would be covered, as of Thursday, by a powertrain warranty of seven years or 100,000 miles, whichever comes first.
 Suzuki's bumper-to-bumper warranty -- covering repairs for the entire car, excluding normal wear -- remains three years or 36,000 miles. The powertrain coverage kicks in after the basic warranty expires, and covers major drivetrain parts like engines, transmissions and axles. Suzuki also offers roadside assistance for three years. 
 Hyundai and Kia are offering powertrain coverage of 10 years or 100,000 miles, and bumper-to-bumper coverage of five years or 60,000 miles, plus roadside assistance for five years regardless of mileage. Isuzu's drivetrain warranty is the nation's longest, at 120,000 miles or 10 years, on top of basic coverage of three years or 50,000 miles.
But Suzuki says its new warranty is better than those because it can be transferred to a vehicle's future owners. Also, the company charges no deductibles for warranty work. Other companies offering long warranties either don't allow them to be transferred if a car is resold, impose limitations on such transfers or charge deductibles.
Allowing transfers and repealing deductibles "creates the best value for the customer," Cam Smith-Arnold, director of corporate brand marketing for the American Suzuki Motor Corporation, said in an interview.
Warranties have become a more important selling point as automakers try to prove they are making higher-quality vehicles. "We're seeing long warranties instituted by companies who believe they have a perceived challenge in the quality area -- Hyundai, Kia, Isuzu, Chrysler and now Suzuki," said Joe Ivers, a partner with J. D. Power & Associates, the market research firm. "In our quality surveys, those same companies typically rank below average. Their warranties are a new promise of quality, or a form of consumer protection if they have difficulties."
Hyundai started the warranty offensive by offering a powertrain warranty of 10 years or 100,000 miles for 1999 models. The company needed to convince consumers that its products, notoriously poor in their early years in the American market, had become better.
The strategy worked. Hyundai has improved more than any other company in J. D. Power's quality surveys, and its sales growth has been among the industry's highest. Sales at Kia, which is owned by Hyundai's Korean parent company, have also soared since its warranty was expanded.
"We still claim ours is the most comprehensive in the industry," said Mike Anson, a spokesman for Hyundai Motor America. "We
trademarked 'America's best warranty.' "
Other companies followed Hyundai's lead, including Isuzu. In early July, DaimlerChrysler, which had experimented over the last year with long warranties on some models, said it would offer what it called "an industry leading" powertrain warranty of seven years or 70,000 miles on all Chryslers, Jeeps and Dodges. Chrysler says its internal warranty costs dropped 20 percent in the 2001 model year and are now half of their 1996 level.
Mr. Ivers of J. D. Power said Chrysler's initial quality -- measured in the early months of ownership -- had improved, but the long-term durability of Chrysler vehicles remained a problem. In comparison, he said Ford and General Motors were in a stronger position and had less need to offer long warranties. "I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for them to jump on the bandwagon," he said.
Suzuki will market its seven-year warranty along with buyer incentives -- no down payment and no interest charges for up to five years -- under the slogan "Zero, zero & 7." Although the company's advertising sets an Aug. 31 expiration, Ms. Smith-Arnold said the warranty offer would be extended.
"We felt a lot of manufacturers were focusing on very good finance offers or very good warranties," Ms. Smith-Arnold said. "We thought we could take the lead in offering both with a very generous term. Our intention is to keep that going as long as it is affordable because it has been very successful for us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT WARRANTIES (94%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKETING SURVEYS (86%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SALES FIGURES (71%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%) AUTOMOBILES; GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (85%); SUZUKI MOTOR CORP (66%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SUZUKI CO 

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (85%); 005380 (KSE) (85%); 7269 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%) SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES WHOLESALERS; 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



74 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: In the Hamptons, It's All Altitude 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
ON a midsummer Friday afternoon, a few minutes before 5:30, a convoy of expensive cars filled with wives, children and butlers moved slowly down Meadow Lane, rumbled past a sign that announced a dead end and rolled to a stop next to dunes.
 To the casual observer, the cars, parked in the middle of nowhere, might have looked odd, the only sounds a lonely ocean breeze and a gentle crashing of waves. 
 Then a child cried out, his arm pointing toward a black dot in the sky. The dot drew closer, and the air rippled with noise. Two minutes later, a twin-engine Sikorsky helicopter settled its bulk onto a landing pad concealed by waving sea grass. 
Four men debarked and picked up four briefcases that the pilot had set on the tarmac. Then the chopper pulled into the air and nosed westward toward Manhattan. The men climbed into the waiting cars. 
Commuting by Sikorsky is a far cry from the John Cheever days when Daddy arrived on the 6:07 to Greenwich after downing a gimlet in the bar car. Helicopters as casual transportation have long been the province of the wealthy, and the heliport at East 30th Street in Manhattan caters to a steady stream of people like Henry Kravis, Ron Perelman and Ellen Barkin. But this summer even regular Joes -- O.K., well-to-do regular Joes -- are flying, despite the uncertain economic climate.
Patrick Day, the director of charter marketing for Liberty Helicopters, one of about a half-dozen companies offering commercial service to New Yorkers, said that his 40 to 50 flights a day represented an increase of 30 to 40 percent over last summer's number.
Todd Rome, president of Blue Star Jets, which arranges private air travel, has seen a similar increase in requests for helicopters from the city to summer resorts like the Hamptons, Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard. "On Monday morning from Manhattan, you can see so many of them coming in it's like a cloud," he said. 
Mr. Rome said that many of his New York clients, feeling the economic chill, had skipped vacations to Europe and instead were traveling the Eastern Seaboard. 
Still, the main reason for the surge in chopper commuting is the hot, honking, congested, gas-guzzling, are-we-there-yet car traffic, which has increased considerably in the last two years. 
According to the New York State Department of Transportation, the number of cars passing over the Shinnecock Canal, the entry to the South Fork of Long Island, rose 18 percent from April 2000 to April 2001 to an average of 28,954 a day. The numbers for April 2002, not yet tabulated, are expected to be relatively flat.
The bridge over the canal, where Route 27 narrows from a four-lane highway to a two-lane rural route, is the choke point for Hamptons traffic, said Samuel Schwartz, a former deputy transportation commissioner in New York City. "It is now backed up by noon on Friday," he said. "That makes the whole trip really unpleasant." Kenneth Day, a San Francisco business consultant (he is not related to Patrick Day), said that he had been "totally freaked out by the traffic" during a drive to the Hamptons last summer.
"I cannot sit in traffic like that," he said. "It just makes me too agitated." For a visit to friends in the Hamptons this summer, he took a helicopter. "It's expensive, but I don't come every weekend like some people, so it's entirely worth it," he said.
Jeff Hyman, the president of Gabriel Aviation in New York, a commercial service, said that his usual 70 flights a day on busy summer weekends, primarily to the Hamptons, have increased between 5 and 10 this year. 
"The high-end people with bulletproof net worth are continuing to fly during the down economy," Mr. Hyman said. "But I am also starting to see more entrepreneurial people, and people who are just incredibly fed up with the traffic. The attitude is changing because people who do business in New York see the traffic and say, 'My time is worth more than that.' "
Flights on Gabriel Aviation's service, sold in packages, cost about $400 each way, with each chopper carrying four or five passengers. So for a summer of weekend commuting, fliers need to have $7,000 or more to burn. If you're a lawyer billing a few hundred dollars an hour, that's probably a good investment, given that the average trip from Manhattan to Southampton takes 30 to 40 minutes by helicopter, and two to five hours by car. 
Few helicopter travelers said they had safety fears. There has been only one fatal helicopter crash in the last five years in the New York area, according to statistics from the National Transportation Safety Board. In April 1997, a corporate helicopter owned by Colgate-Palmolive crashed into the East River and one passenger died. 
Mr. Hyman said that the public perception that helicopters are dangerous has been culled from the movies and news. "That's because most people see them crashing in war movies or doing a Medivac or rescuing someone off a mountain," he said. 
The helicopter trip from Manhattan to Southampton couldn't be more serene. Commuters get a quick glimpse of Manhattan before heading into Queens, where fields that at first look curiously stubbled with gray turn out to be cemeteries. Those yield to acres and acres of closely packed two-family houses, which give way to Floral Park, where homes have backyards and above-ground pools. From there, an exurban patchwork forms: car dealerships in Bay Shore, a shopping mall in Islip, baseball diamonds, the striated green fields of farms, horses in pastures, tennis courts, golf courses and finally the oceanfront mansions of Quogue, leading to the helipads of Southampton and East Hampton.
Crisscrossing through it all are the roads and highways -- the Cross-Island Expressway, the Southern and Northern State Parkways, the Long Island Expressway -- all sluggish with traffic.
That midsummer Friday, the lucky fliers alighting in Southampton included Ken Dichter, whose Sean Jean velour warm-up suit flapped in the chopper's wake. Mr. Dichter, an aviation executive, said there was no other way to travel. "With the traffic?" he said. "No way."
A little later the tennis player Jennifer Capriati arrived at the helipad in a chauffeured sedan, waving to a gathering of people as she boarded a flight to Manhattan. She had just finished shooting a spread for Vogue, said Jonathan Becker, the photographer who took the pictures. 
Mr. Becker waited patiently for a helicopter that would pick up the people who had helped him on the shoot: two stylists, who sat with their suitcases on wheels, and a Vogue fashion editor, Phyllis Posnick. 
Bernard L. Schwartz, the chief executive of Loral, arrived in the next incoming chopper and disappeared into the back seat of a sedan. "Where is that thing?" Ms. Posnick said. The Vogue helicopter was nowhere in sight.
"You know," Mr. Becker said, checking his watch, "if it's this late you don't have to pay."
The Vogue chopper was already an hour late. The stylists pulled mobile phones from their rolling suitcases. Ms. Posnick, who looked diaphanous and angelic in her all-white linen outfit, sounded more like someone possessed by Beelzebub as she took to her phone. 
"This is ridiculous," she said, turning to shout into the phone. "No, it's Vogue. I said, V-O-G-U-E."
Ms. Posnick's service, Direct Air, eventually did show up, and gave her a discount. 
An acquaintance had called Gabriel Aviation for the Vogue crew, but with no luck. "There are only so many $2 million machines I have at my disposal at one time," Mr. Hyman, the Gabriel Aviation president, said later.
Standing on Meadow Lane, looking at his watch and chewing on a cigar, Mr. Becker said: "You see, there are drawbacks. Phyllis might be home by now if she had driven."

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAD'S HOME -- A long way from Cheever country, Friday commuters arrive aboard the 5:35 from the East 30th Street heliport. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (76%); RESORTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HELICOPTERS 

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (50%); RONALD PERELMAN (50%) KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) HAMPTONS, THE (NY); NANTUCKET (MASS); MARTHA'S VINEYARD (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



75 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
If the Formula Says Buy, The Big Institutions Buy

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN

 BODY:
DURING the big market declines of recent weeks, many of the biggest investors have been buying stocks. But that may not signal a belief that the market is about to soar.
 Instead of selling into a downdraft, as some individual investors appeared to be doing, many major institutions -- including government and corporate pension funds, university endowments, charitable foundations, and religious organizations -- have been compelled by ironclad asset allocation policies to do the reverse. The policies require them to buy stocks when the market knocks the value of their equity positions below a desired level -- say, 60 percent of total assets. 
 "It's been our experience that institutional investors weren't part of the sell-off," said Roger Fenningdorf, a principal at Rocaton Investment Advisors, a Darien, Conn., consultant to institutions. "I don't think our clients are happy about what's happened to the markets in recent months, but they haven't been panicking, and they aren't giving up on their asset allocation policies."
This methodical buying, or "rebalancing," by institutions to adhere to asset allocation goals has helped fuel some of the periodic comebacks in the stock market in recent weeks.
"With things in the markets changing as dramatically as they have, we have tended to rebalance by buying stocks and selling bonds," said William F. Quinn, the president of AMR Investment Services, the unit of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, that manages corporate pension assets.
Michael T. Flaherman, the chairman of the investment committee for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, the nation's largest pension plan, added: "When we buy stocks, it's not because we are looking at the market and saying, 'It's the right time.' It's because we are looking at our asset allocation targets."
Some professionals say individual investors, who tend to be less resolute in forming or keeping asset allocation targets, might do well to adopt such goals, too.
"Institutional investors know that you have to have patience and you have to have a plan, and you have to stick with it," said Gail L. Bardin, a principal at Hotchkis & Wiley Capital Management, a Los Angeles-based institutional money manager focusing on value stocks. By contrast, the behavior of many individual investors has appeared to be anything but methodical.
Judging from mutual fund outflows over the last two months, many people were selling stocks priced much closer to their cyclical lows than to their highs. In June, net redemptions for equity mutual funds totaled $10.46 billion, after five consecutive months of inflows, according to AMG Data Services, which tracks fund flows. In the first 25 days of July, the cash outflows totaled $30.6 billion, dwarfing the $23.6 billion withdrawn from funds in the month after Sept. 11.
To be sure, some people who sold their stock holdings were nearing retirement or had other needs for money and therefore could not afford to take the chance that equity values would fall further. By contrast, institutions have the benefit of investing truly for the long term.
Many people who were disheartened by losses have sold stocks in the hope of returning to the market in a calmer period. They were essentially engaging in market timing, a practice that has also tempted some professionals.
"Some institutional investors have even asked if they should be moving money into cash," said Michael Odlum, president of Allied Investment Advisors, an institutional and retail asset manager, based in Baltimore, whose clients include pension funds and religious organizations. "We have told them that timing the market is a loser's game. When the stock market begins to recover, it happens really fast and you end up missing some of the critical gains if you're out of the market."
While some institutions, like pension funds, have begun to put some money into alternative asset classes like hedge funds and private equity funds, such moves have generally been limited to a small proportion of their investments. Calpers, for example, has allocated 58 percent of its assets to stocks, 28 percent to bonds and money market funds, and the remainder to private equity funds and real estate.
Thomas McManus, the chief investment strategist with Banc of America Securities, said some institutional investors might have increased their equity stakes more slowly than in previous downturns. But he said that there had been no fundamental shift in asset allocation strategy.
But Mr. McManus also pointed out that the balance of investment power had been shifting over the last two decades away from more disciplined institutional investors and toward more impulsive individual investors, who now have direct control of significant amounts of pension assets through 401(k) retirement plans. The share of total pension plan assets controlled by individuals through defined-contribution plans and I.R.A.'s rose to 46 percent in 2001 from 35 percent in 1990, according to figures compiled by the Investment Company Institute.
"My fear is that individuals have done more damage to their accounts by investing directly," he said. "They hurt themselves by not picking the right manager or right asset allocation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas McManus, of Banc of America Securities, fears for individual investors who may have done damage to their accounts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHARITIES (76%); RELIGION (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); AMR INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (54%); HOTCHKIS & WILEY (52%); AMG DATA SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: MCMANUS, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



76 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
Was Gordon Gekko Right About Greed?

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN a Tolstoy story titled "How Much Land Does a Man Need?" a peasant named Pahom who longs for loam is granted his wish by the devil. First he gets 40 acres, then 125. Finally, in his acquisitive hunger, he accepts an offer of as much fertile territory as he can encircle in a day on foot. His cost will be just 1,000 rubles.
 Of course, his eyes are bigger than his cardiovascular fitness level, and after walking as much land as possible by sunset, he drops dead. Tolstoy answers the title's question in the very last line: "Six feet from his head to his heels was all he needed." 
 That parable about greed seems especially relevant today, amid the bear market and the constant eruption of business scandals. The novelist David Gates cited it in a recent Newsweek column. But the joke is on us, because Pahom's story was written by a man who inherited a 4,000-acre estate. (For the record, that's 10 miles around.)
What the story really shows is that there is nothing like the dashed material longings of others to bring out humanity's strongest censorious impulses -- nothing, that is, but a whiff of financial apocalypse. I tried a search for all the published references to "greed" of the last 60 days, but there were too many to count. Rest assured that if stocks keep declining, there will be many more -- and that they will come mainly from people of means. 
Greed, it seems, is everywhere. But now that the culture's well-fed opinion makers have uncovered our collective avarice, perhaps we should ask about the nature of this greed that so appalls us. My first instinct was that greed is the term to describe someone else's trying to make money. But that seemed unscientific, so I turned to the dictionary, which defines it as an "excessive desire to have or possess more than what one needs or deserves." 
But what does any of us really "need"? And, on a more complicated level, what do we "deserve"? Does anyone have the right to eat in a restaurant when people in Africa are starving? How can society spend money on punditry while others cannot afford health care?
All that aside, the definition is interesting because of the lexicographer's agnosticism about how much we already have. The implication is that you can be as rich as Croesus, because the crime here is not having, but wanting. In the Bible, after all, it's not money that is "the root of all evil"; in his letter to Timothy, Paul wrote that it was "the love of money."
Americans have never especially warmed to the notion that having is all right, while getting isn't. For one thing, it's bad economics. The world of commerce is not a zero-sum game and, besides, demand is the driver of economic growth. Without demand -- for more, better, bigger, faster, prettier -- the whole system would collapse, and with it the health and freedoms that only affluence can underwrite. Excess is always a little sickening, but John Updike basically had it right when he suggested that money and sex are alike in this way: only too much is enough.
As usual, there is consolation in philosophy. Ivan F. Boesky was probably a little too blunt for comfort when he contended, in his heyday making money on Wall Street, that greed is healthy. (The actor Michael Douglas utters a similar line as Gordon Gekko in the 1987 movie "Wall Street.") Of course, we should deplore astronomical C.E.O. paychecks bestowed by chummy boards, or investors who ignore a company's lack of earnings or prospects. Even capitalism has a moral context.
But is the baseball shortstop Alex Rodriguez "greedy" for getting a $252 million contract from the Texas Rangers -- a willing buyer in an open market? Similarly, is anyone greedy for seeking the highest possible investment returns? 
The system will survive; corporate reforms will occur, seemingly working until the next round of market panic and scandal. And the market will go up again, as it always has.
When will that be? Nobody knows, of course. And even if I did, I wouldn't say. I'm too greedy, just like everyone else.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); ETHICS (68%); SCANDALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); RESTAURANTS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS 

PERSON: AKST, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



77 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Illusion of Entertainment; 
Just Like a Movie, But It's Not

BYLINE:  By NEAL GABLER; Neal Gabler is the author of "Life the Movie: How Entertainment Conquered Reality."

 BODY:
WITH summer comes the annual ritual of the Hollywood blockbuster, aimed primarily at teenagers, and with the blockbuster comes the annual ritual of complaining about it.
 Critics usually focuses on the thin plots, the lame jokes, the lack of characterization and the bombast of special effects. As they see it, many films now use an aesthetic sleight-of-hand that substitutes volume, speed, size and other neurological overloads for the more traditional satisfactions of entertainment, allowing viewers to expend a minimal amount of emotional energy. These are faux movies, and are about the only kind most teenagers respond to. They are also Exhibit A of a larger phenomenon: the illusion of entertainment. 
 For decades, cultural observers have been saying Americans live in a world of their own illusions, built to their specifications and designed to replace the disorder and discomfort of the unmanaged reality people were once sentenced to. As Umberto Eco wrote, "American imagination demands the real thing and, to attain it, must fabricate the absolute fake." 
Entertainment, especially film, with its blend of the real and the fantastic, has long been implicated in this shouldering aside of the genuine. But though entertainment is often blamed for this trend, it is also seemingly immune, because you cannot make a copy of a copy. You know that the French pavilion at Disney World's Epcot is not a real French bistro. But what would an imitation movie or TV show even look like? To talk about facsimiles of entertainment doesn't make sense.
Over the last few years, however, something has appeared that not even the most prescient cultural theorists anticipated. The television producer Phil Rosenthal calls it the "illusion of entertainment," and it is just that -- a form of entertainment that looks and sounds like conventional entertainment but is not, any more than Epcot's Paris is Paris. Something vital is missing. 
In most entertainment, the audience responds emotionally, psychologically, intellectually, even physically. There is a level of engagement, and we usually judge entertainment on the basis of how much engagement it elicits. At its simplest, as in so many teenage movies, the illusion of entertainment eschews other forms of engagement for purely physical effects. At its more complex, engagement is replaced by another mechanism entirely. Instead of character development in movies or full-bodied jokes in situation comedies viewers get a set of signals, a kind of code, that advises them how to respond without having to expend the effort, however minimal, that real entertainment demands. You see or hear the signal and you respond as if you were getting the real thing. Or put another way, you are given the form and you provide the content.
Just compare a conventional entertainment, the director Frank Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town," with its latest avatar, Adam Sandler's "Mr. Deeds" -- by no means the most egregious offender. Both films tell the same story of a naif who inherits a fortune and is taken advantage of by urban sharpies. But that's where the similarity ends. Capra's classic is heavily plotted, quiet and often tender; leisurely paced, its comedy character- and plot-generated. You must watch and listen closely to enjoy it. Mr. Sandler's movie is more skimpily plotted, loud, often violent and frenetically paced. Its comedy is virtually all non sequiturs -- a disappearing butler or a gangrenous foot that is only funny because we know it is meant to be, not because it is inherently humorous. Even the romantic scenes are romantic only because viewers know they are supposed to be, and drippy music signals that they are. Mr. Sandler is working the code. He's stripped Capra down to the absolute basics of form and then added noise and speed.
In mathematics there is something called a derivative -- an expression that stands for another set of expressions. The illusion of entertainment is a kind of cultural derivative. You watch most television sitcoms and, just by the rhythm of the banter and the laugh track, you know how you are supposed to respond, whether the jokes are funny or not. Sitcom writers call this "likeajoke" because it has the form of a joke without the content. Or you go to a big commercial movie, and just by experiencing the rapid cutting and thumping music you know how you are supposed to respond, whether the action engages you or not.
In effect, these entertainments exist largely as a system of reminders of what we once experienced when we watched real entertainment -- movies and television shows that engaged us and made us feel.
OF course, some may argue that the illusion of entertainment is just another name for bad or formulaic entertainment, and the signals and codes are the cultural syntax that everyone grows up with. But the illusion of entertainment is not a matter of quality; it is a matter of kind -- of a different way of processing what we see. Even bad conventional entertainment operates on the principle of engagement; it is just that bad entertainment doesn't succeed in engaging. 
As for formulas, while most people are familiar with narrative patterns and understand what they convey, there is a big difference between old formulaic entertainment and the new illusion of entertainment. Formulas are designed to elicit predictable responses through predictable means -- predictable because they have worked in the past. You show an audience an attractive young man and woman who playfully bicker at the beginning of a movie and it roots for them to wind up together at the end. Or show a bully pushing around a decent fellow and viewers root for the latter to defeat the former. The audience reacts not because it knows the formula -- it reacts because the formula knows the audience.
THE illusion of entertainment doesn't put the audience through those paces. Being a derivative, it is far more emotionally economical. It gets its predictable responses by cuing the audience in how they are supposed to react. And it can do so because the audience, after years of watching movies and TV shows, is now hard-wired to respond. Virtually all Americans have internalized the code. They are sophisticated enough to know that a certain cadence of speech means funny and a certain editing pattern means action and certain saccharine music means melodrama. They don't need the whole apparatus of entertainment anymore, or even formulas. The illusion of entertainment is a shortcut -- entertainment lite.
It is not an altogether unsatisfying shortcut either. Just as Mr. Eco said that Americans prefer the fake to the real, so many prefer the illusion of entertainment to the real thing. The illusion of entertainment cannot provide all the pleasures real entertainment does, but it is far less demanding and challenging. It is also more accessible, and since it lets viewers essentially fill in the blanks themselves, it is more certain in its results. In fact, many people, especially young people, are now likely to judge a movie or TV show by how effectively it provides the forms and activates the codes. 
Not surprisingly, this has been a boon to the entertainment industry. Why struggle to write real jokes when you can write "likeajokes" and get the same effect? In doing so, however, producers of entertainment have not, as some critics assert, necessarily suffered a failure of talent or intelligence. Rather, they may have made a discovery and then exploited it. Just as the makers of kitsch, which is the illusion of art, learned to produce, in the critic Clement Greenberg's analysis, the effect without the cause, so have the makers of the illusion of entertainment learned how to produce the reaction without the reason for it. When the audience so embraces this, one cannot really blame producers for attempting to perfect it.
Obviously, no work of popular entertainment is entirely illusory yet. But real entertainment is endangered -- and not only because the illusion of entertainment is flooding the market. An entire generation has now grown up with the illusion of entertainment. It has grown up with the codes, with "likeajokes" and "likeanaction," and scarcely knows what real entertainment is -- which is why the illusion of entertainment is targeted at the young. For them, the codes are not reminders; they are the thing itself. 
It is bizarre to think that conventional entertainment may someday become a relic with even the old formulas attenuated into signals. Yet that is the future we are edging toward -- a future where entertainment is created by people who don't care about engagement for people who don't even know what engagement is.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the dark at a summer comedy at a downtown Manhattan cinema last week. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); SENTENCING (68%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



78 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial DeskMoney and Bus; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Bake at 95 Degrees. Then Buy an Air-Conditioner.

BYLINE:  By MACAULAY CAMPBELL

 BODY:
 Sales of air-conditioners are heating up around the country this year, thanks in part to above-normal temperatures this summer and strong demand for new housing in some regions. Through the end of June, manufacturers shipped 3.9 million central air-conditioning units, a 5 percent increase from the same period in 2001, according to the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute. In June alone, shipments rose 11 percent from last year, the trade group said. Sales of smaller room-sized units are also picking up, a sign that some people were surprised by the hot weather. In June, those sales were $208 million, up from $156 million the year before. MACAULAY CAMPBELL

AIR-CONDITIONER SHIPMENTS
Factory shipments of air-conditioners through first six months

Graph shows the factory shipments of air-conditioners (central air-conditioners AND room air-conditioners) through first six months since 1998.

NATIONAL AVERAGE TEMPERATURE
For the month of June.

Graph shows the national average temperature for the month of June since 1998.

RESTAURANT SALES
Year-over-year change, weekly

Graph shows the restaurant sales year-over-year change, weekly since February 2002.

NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS
Year-over-year change, weekly

Graph shows the new mortgage applications year-over-year change, weekly since February 2002.

CLOTHING PRICES
Change in consumer price index

Graph shows the change in consumer price index of clothing prices since June 2001.

PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS
Totals in thousands, weekly

Graph shows the number of personal bankruptcy filings since February 2002.

ONLINE SALES
Dollars in billions, weekly

Graph shows the online sales since February 2002.

HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES
Four-week moving average, daily

Graph shows the hotel occupany rates for New York, Chicago and Los Angeles since February 2002 through July 31, 2002.

(Sources: Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute air-conditioner data ; Penn State Department of Meteorology temperatures ; NPDHouseworld air-conditioner sales ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics clothing prices ; Lundquist Consulting (bankruptcies); comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); METEOROLOGY (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%) AIR-CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION INSTITUTE; HOME FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: AIR-CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION INSTITUTE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



79 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Once More With Feeling: Buy American. Please!

BYLINE:  Compiled by Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:
The math couldn't be simpler. If you pay Americans $10 an hour to make shirts, they'll end up more expensive than if you pay a fraction of that to overseas workers. 
Of course, you can try to skew the math by appealing to customers to ignore the price and "buy American," but most shoppers typically stop waving flags the moment they pull out their wallets.
 Consider C. F. Hathaway, the last big company to make dress shirts domestically. After it was sold twice in six years, its latest owner planned to throw in the towel, not to mention the signature eye patch, and close the Waterville, Me., plant. That outraged the Made in the USA Foundation, which is heading a group to buy Hathaway and save 300 American jobs. 
 Joel Joseph, the foundation's chairman, showed his disdain for elementary capitalist math when he said shirt makers should accept lower profit margins. But he does have a plan: market the shirts to union members, socially conscious shoppers and government agencies under orders to buy American.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (88%); APPAREL MFG (88%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CLOSINGS (53%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CLOTHING AND FABRICS 

COMPANY: C F HATHAWAY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MADE IN THE USA FOUNDATION (56%) CF HATHAWAY 

INDUSTRY: SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (57%)

PERSON: JOSEPH, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



80 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Starting Up in South Dakota

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino

 BODY:
If you're looking to strike out on your own in business, you might want to look to South Dakota, Nevada and Wyoming. 
 They were found to be the three best states for small businesses and entrepreneurs, according to the Small Business Survival Committee, a nonprofit advocacy group, which last week released its 2002 Small Business Survival Index. 
 The annual index ranks states' friendliness to small enterprises, based on 20 factors, including taxes, costs for health care, electricity and labor, and crime rates. 
Rounding out the top five were Texas and Florida. The least friendly places, the survey found, were California, New Mexico, Minnesota, Maine, Hawaii and the District of Columbia.
Darrell McKigney, the president of the Small Business Survival Committee, said, "The best policy environment for entrepreneurship consists of low taxes, restrained government spending and regulation, and government fulfilling its duty of protecting life, limb and property." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (82%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); CRIME RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PERSONAL FINANCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



81 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Defying China, Taiwan Leader Backs a Vote On Sovereignty 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan said today that separate countries now exist on either side of the Taiwan Strait and voiced support for legislation authorizing a referendum to declare Taiwan independent of China, positions that are certain to anger Beijing.
 Speaking of the Taiwan Strait, less than 100 miles of ocean that separates Taiwan from eastern China, President Chen declared, "Simply put, with Taiwan and China on each side of the strait, each side is a country -- this needs to be clear." 
 He made the comment from his office in Taipei, the capital, in a video teleconference with pro-independence Taiwanese in Tokyo.
President Chen also lent his support to pro-independence forces in his Democratic Progressive Party who want the national Legislature to approve a law making a plebiscite on independence possible. 
"I want to sincerely urge and encourage everybody to seriously consider the importance and urgency of passing legislation on a referendum," he said.
President Chen's statements are the closest he has come to endorsing independence since taking office two years ago. He did not actually say when or even whether a referendum should be held, but stuck to endorsing legislation to make such a referendum possible.
The holding of referendums, he said, "is a basic human right that cannot be withheld or restricted."
An official in the Taiwan Affairs Office of the Chinese government in Beijing said this afternoon that the speech had been noticed. "At present it's the weekend, normal staff aren't on duty, so we haven't an official response yet to President Chen Shui-bian's speech, but the Chinese government won't be deviating from the One China principle," said the official, who declined to be named.
Ever since Chiang Kai-shek and his Nationalist Party supporters retreated to Taiwan after losing China's civil war in 1949, Beijing has maintained that Taiwan is a renegade province, and has consistently refused to renounce the use of force to reunite Taiwan with the mainland.
Cross-strait relations are so sensitive that Beijing seldom issues official statements without approval at the highest levels, which often can take several days. Predicting the level of anger from Beijing is especially difficult now because the party's leadership is at its annual retreat, preparing for this autumn's Communist Party congress, which is held every five years.
There have been signs that the party is embroiled in a struggle over how much power should be relinquished by Jiang Zemin, China's 76-year-old president and Communist Party chief, who is expected to give up at least one of his posts. Many important decisions, on everything from economic policy to relations with the United States, have apparently been deferred until after the party congress, for which no date has been publicly set yet. So it is possible that Chinese leaders will be leery of confronting Taiwan while preoccupied with their own maneuvering.
But when Mr. Chen's predecessor, Lee Teng-hui, said in July 1999 that Taiwan and China had a "special state-to-state" relationship, Beijing responded furiously to the intimation that Taiwan was an independent country. Chinese fighters flew sorties near Taiwanese aircraft over the Taiwan Strait. Alarmed by rising tensions, Washington canceled a visit to Taiwan by American military aides but also warned Beijing that the United States would retaliate if China resorted to military force.
The comments today mark the second time in two weeks that Mr. Chen has made statements certain to draw Beijing's ire. He said on July 21 that his people should "walk down our own Taiwanese road to find Taiwan's future." Mr. Chen made those comments a few hours after the Pacific island of Nauru recognized Beijing and broke diplomatic relations with Taipei. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (93%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



82 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Getting the Jitters As Advance Ticket Sales Fall 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Since Sept. 11, thousands of Broadway theatergoers have been buying their tickets in a strikingly different way -- much more spur of the moment rather than far in advance -- and anxious producers say the change promises to have long-term effects on how shows are booked, marketed and priced, and even on how much stars will be paid. 
 According to new statistics from the League of American Theaters and Producers, Broadway's main trade group, only about one in three theatergoers is buying tickets more than four weeks in advance. That figure is a sharp departure from the typical 50 percent that producers had grown to expect over the last decade, a period of remarkable prosperity for Broadway as a whole. 
 "The notion of having an advance and being able to plan with that in mind has been a part of the financial infrastructure for a long time now," said Jed Bernstein, the league's president. "If this is a permanent change, it's really going to change the fundamental finances of many shows." 
With a traditional September slowdown fast approaching and a host of long-running shows posting closing notices -- including "Contact," "The Full Monty" and "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife" -- Broadway producers have kept a close watch on advance sales, an important indicator of any production's health. With their advances rapidly dwindling in recent months, the two musicals decided to shut down on Sept. 1, "The Allergist's Wife" on Sept. 15.
While all three productions had healthy, successful runs and recouped their investments, the situation is worse for some recently opened shows, and especially plays. "Topdog/Underdog," which won this year's Pulitzer Prize for drama, will close next Sunday despite decent weekly sales, because its star actors, Jeffrey Wright and Mos Def, are leaving. With only a limited advance -- and thus no safety net -- the producers decided to close rather than try to recast.
Many other plays, including "The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?" "Proof," "Metamorphoses" and "Noises Off," are facing difficult choices as their advances begin to shrink as well. 
Next month is shaping up to be a particularly cruel period. With two Jewish holidays and Labor Day, September has always been a slow month on Broadway as families avoid the theater for religious services or trips away. But this year, the commemoration of Sept. 11 is adding worries about the public's appetite for theater; only a handful of shows are performing that day -- which is a Wednesday, usually a two-show day. 
Factor in a weak economy and weak advance sales, and some Broadway insiders say they expect producers may just close long-running shows rather than risk a series of weekly losses. 
"It becomes a point where producers who might have ridden out a dry stretch might just pull the plug," said one press agent who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "It becomes a question of being prudent to your investors." 
Even incoming productions are feeling the effects. Only the new season's most talked-about show, "Hairspray," a new musical based on the 1988 movie by John Waters, and "Movin' Out," a dance musical framed around the songs of Billy Joel, have had significant advance sales, and neither is setting any records. "Hairspray," for example, which opens on Aug. 15, has a $6 million advance; "The Producers," last year's hit, had $15 million before it opened. 
Weak advances also inspire the sort of Catch-22 that makes producers wince. To drum up immediate sales, a production will use advertising money budgeted for future weeks, which in turn, raises weekly costs and the need for more advance sales. And so on. 
All of which has made the job of producing a Broadway show, never one for the weak of heart, that much more harrowing. "People are frightened," said another press agent. "I have never heard fear and trembling expressed so clearly."
Theater owners, producers and other industry experts say the drop-off is directly connected to the lifeblood of Broadway: tourism.
"With rare exceptions, what we're finding is that people aren't traveling to near the extent that they were," said Tom Viertel, one of the producers of "The Producers," one of the few shows on Broadway that still have a healthy advance ($18 million, in this case). "People simply aren't taking discretionary travel."
But city tourism officials suspect the declines on Broadway may also have something to do with the type of tourist now visiting the city. 
Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president of NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, said recent surveys by her agency found that while the number of tourists this summer was roughly equivalent to that of last summer, their average stay was shorter and the amount of money being spent was lower. "More people are booking last-minute," she said, "and hunting for discount deals."
Of particular concern to Broadway, Ms. Nicholas said, was a decline in the number of group tours from around the nation and individual foreign tourists. 
"They are the ones who would book well in advance, and that's not there right now," she said. "That's been wiped out almost." The stagnant economy and increasingly high ticket prices have probably contributed somewhat to theatergoers' preference for discount tickets, but the major problems began, like all those related to the tourism industry, immediately after Sept. 11, when Broadway attendance plummeted and advance sales for many shows came to a standstill.
With a series of promotional efforts and $1.5 million in aid from the city, Broadway staged a remarkably strong recovery, eventually grossing $643.4 million for the season. (Attendance for the 2002-03 season, now 10 weeks old, is off by only about 5 percent compared with last season.) 
But while the crowds did eventually return, they often did so by buying half-price tickets the day of the performance or buying heavily discounted seats at the last minute. And while advance sales did rebound from last fall, the league's most recent survey, which ended in early June after the Tony Awards, showed that only 37 percent of patrons were buying their seats at least four weeks in advance, down from the usual benchmark of 50 percent. 
One of the inevitable reactions to weaker advance sales is for producers to discount tickets close to the performance date rather than get stuck with an unsalable product. But that strategy can have long-term consequences, especially when the always-tough winter months come around. 
"If you're solving a January problem in November, that's always a bad thing," said Mr. Viertel, referring to the common practice of having half-price sales in January. "You end up sawing yourself off a limb, because when January comes around, those people will have already bought earlier on."
The downturn, Mr. Viertel said, may challenge producers to think of new promotional schemes and marketing ideas to attract audiences. "Who knows when people will begin to feel comfortable about planning ahead?" he said. "So we have to."
Half-price sales and more efficient productions, of course, are not bad for consumers, and on Wednesday, the line around the TKTS booth in Duffy Square was packed five-deep with theatergoers looking for cheap tickets. They were not disappointed; 23 of the 30 current Broadway productions were on sale, including "Phantom of the Opera" -- like so many shows, its advance, once enormous, has shrunk since Sept. 11.
There are some good signs, of course. Several productions, including "Hairspray" and a starry revival of "Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune," are opening before September. Many hope they will jump-start the season as well as box-office sales across the board.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bargain tickets like those sold at the TKTS booth reward theatergoers who wait until the last minute to buy, but producers depend on advance sales. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); STATISTICS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



83 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: A New Schools Chancellor Draws Advice, Optimism and Crossed Fingers 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
With the shift to mayoral control, and a host of unresolved governance questions, Joel I. Klein, the incoming chancellor, will be navigating New York City's schools into new territory at a time when the faltering economy is forcing big budget cuts. 
 Nonetheless, many education experts say he will have a strong wind at his back in charting a course -- both because of the mayor's support, and because of the groundwork that is already in place. 
 Rather than proposing sweeping systemic changes, many experts suggest that Mr. Klein's early energies should be trained on finding the city's most successful schools, examining their strategies and replicating them in the lowest-performing schools. Most suggestions for Mr. Klein that emerged in interviews with his predecessors, his counterparts in other urban districts, and education leaders, began with advice for him to recognize the best schools and learn from them. 
"I was very encouraged at the announcement of Joel Klein's appointment, with the mayor saying there is much good in the New York City schools," said Ramon C. Cortines, who resigned as chancellor in 1995 after two years of heavy fire from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "It's been a long time since a mayor said anything good about New York schools. It's important to be a cheerleader for the good things, to recognize successes like the small-school movement and the special schools." 
Celebrating success cannot be the only task in a system where so many schools so badly fail so many children. While the chancellor must certainly address those failures, experts say, it is important not just as a matter of spin to recognize that some schools produce outstanding academic results, even in the most difficult neighborhoods.
"We know there's some excellent schools, some good schools and some bombs," said Frank Macchiarola, another former chancellor. "We ought to be looking at the schools that work, figuring out why they work, and replicating them. You could interview each of the superintendents, ask them to do the data to tell you which schools are doing well and why." 
Wendy Kopp, the president of Teach for America, a nonprofit group that places recent college graduates in troubled urban schools after a summer of training, offered similar advice -- for slightly different reasons. 
"He should spend a couple of weeks, extremely early on, walking around schools that are doing really well, in the lowest socioeconomic areas, and talking with principals to find out why they were able to get such good results," she said. "The most important thing is for him never to waver from the confidence that it is possible to create high-performing schools in under-resourced areas. It's so easy to lose that sense of possibility." 
The more the public shares that sense of hope, she said, the more support the schools will get. "It's potentially going to be easier to get more money when the public has more confidence about what's being done with the money," she said. 
New York's schools are stunning in their sheer size: With 1.1 million students in more than 1,100 schools, the system as a whole will not be easy for Mr. Klein to steer. 
"He is not going to be the captain of a ship, he's going to be a harbor master, and the harbor has 1,100 or 1,200 different ships, some of which are doing well, and some of which are floundering," said Diane Ravitch, a research professor at New York University. 
Arthur Levine, the president of Teachers College at Columbia University, suggested that Mr. Klein not think of his job as reforming the system but rather as trying to improve 1,100 schools, almost as if each was a branch of a large business. 
"That's a manageable number," Mr. Levine said. "Corporations do it all the time. If the Chase Bank knows Branch No. 37 stinks, it works on fixing Branch No. 37, not changing the whole system. In New York City schools, the job should be to recruit and retain 1,100 excellent principals who have the autonomy and accountability to improve 1,100 schools."
In many cities where mayoral control has brought a new schools chief -- or where a new superintendent from outside has stepped in -- there have been significant centralized reforms, including summer school for failing students, mandatory uniforms, classes on pedagogy for principals, and strict rules on how many classroom minutes must be spent on particular subjects. 
In San Diego, the superintendent, Alan D. Bersin, ordered weekly training on literacy techniques for all principals, and required each principal to spend two hours a day in the classroom. And in Chicago, where mayoral control began in 1995, Arne Duncan, the schools' chief executive, requires two hours a day of reading and writing in every classroom. 
In those cities and elsewhere, the school chiefs have put a strong emphasis on reading and writing, using specific techniques. 
"You have to be bold," Mr. Duncan said. "These are massive institutions, and to have an impact, you have to make significant changes. You can really leverage the mayor's support. There's a tremendous amount of important work that you can get done due to having some unity from the top, in being able to work with the Parks Department and the social services people. But the focus has to be on instruction, on what's going on in the classroom. We have a clear literacy framework, and it's paid off in our test results." 
Some educators hope that in New York, too, mayoral control will bring instructional changes, like required curriculums and teaching methods. 
"I think we should have a prescribed curriculum," Dr. Ravitch said. "As it is, we test on a curriculum, but we don't say what that curriculum is." 
While the shift to mayoral control is, structurally, a profound centralization, many experts do not expect Mr. Klein to impose huge new layers of protocols from headquarters. New York, they point out, is already moving on changes like increased testing and standards and a beefed-up summer school. 
Furthermore, many say that New York's schools already suffer from an overly intrusive headquarters -- and too little flexibility for principals. 
"New York has consistently centralized the wrong things, and decentralized the wrong things," Dr. Ravitch said. "We've created a rule book that takes the place of people using their good judgment. Headquarters should support people in the field and audit their performance. Headquarters shouldn't be telling people what to do every minute. I was talking to a group of principals recently, and they kept coming back to the burden of the paperwork, and how much time they spent on reports. We need to find ways to give principals greater authority over what happens in their building, the resources, the staff, the purchasing." 
There is widespread agreement that good principals, those with a sense of mission and the skill and training to carry it out, are crucial to improving schools -- and that many are hindered by unnecessary bureaucracy. 
A glaring inequity in New York, Dr. Ravitch said, is that the poorest, lowest-performing schools have the least experienced teachers and the highest turnover, a problem that might be addressed by letting their principals pay more to attract and keep experienced teachers. 
Jill Levy, the president of the principals' union, said: "Principals should be able to allocate their money, to run their schools the way they want, and then be held accountable. As a businessperson, if I have a unit that is supposed to deliver a product, but there are all kinds of limits on how they're allowed to deliver it, how can I hold them accountable for their results?" 
Ms. Levy said Mr. Klein's efforts would be complicated by the shrinking budget. 
"There are all kinds of fiscal issues out there," she said. "One thing that's going to be very important is for the chancellor and the mayor to push the campaign for fiscal equity, to be strong advocates with the governor, the legislators and the people to get more money for New York City schools. Joel Klein has a tremendous challenge, taking over the system at a time when the resources are really not available to schools. But it's a moment of real opportunity, too."

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "Recommendations From the Experts" Ramon C. CortinesFormer chancellor"Its been a long time since a mayor said anything good about New York schools. Its important to be a cheerleader for the good things, to recognize successes like the small-school movement and the special schools." Frank J. MacchiarolaFormer chancellor"We ought to be looking at the schools that work, figuring out why they work, and replicating them. You could interview each of the superintendents, ask them to do the data to tell you which schools are doing well and why." Arthur LevinePresident, Teachers College, Columbia University"In New York City schools, the job should be to recruit and retain 1,100 excellent principals who have the autonomy and accountability to improve 1,100 schools." Arne DuncanChief executive of Chicago schools"You have to be bold. These are massive institutions, and to have an impact, you have to make significant changes. You can really leverage the mayors support."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



84 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: A Hotel Helps Ease Racial Tensions 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
In slick travel magazine ads, big-budget movies and hip-hop videos, this sun-drenched city is billed as an oceanfront oasis with an international flavor that offers something for everyone. To some, though, Miami Beach has never fully lived up to its reputation.
 Off and on for decades, Miami Beach has had a strained relationship with African-American tourists and locals, who contend that the city's embrace of Hispanic, European and white American visitors has not always been extended to blacks. 
 When city officials snubbed Nelson Mandela during a visit here in 1990, local civil rights activists led a two-and-a-half-year boycott of Miami Beach by African-American tourists that cost the city $50 million, by some estimates. Tensions have risen and fallen since, edging up again over the 2001 Memorial Day weekend, when the city did little to prepare for an influx of 250,000 hip-hop fans for club events on South Beach that had been promoted on urban radio stations throughout the country. 
The disorganization led to overcrowded streets and hotels and more than 200 arrests and vocal complaints by local residents and business owners that the weekend had been a blight on the city's image.
Enter R. Donahue Peebles, a multimillionaire developer on a mission. Mr. Peebles bulldozed his way onto the pricey real estate scene in 1996, becoming a major part of Miami Beach's answer to its racial tensions.
As part of a deal to end the boycott, the city agreed to allocate some of its oceanfront real estate and invest $10 million in an African-American-owned hotel. The result is the Royal Palm Crowne Plaza Resort, developed and owned by the Peebles Atlantic Development Corporation.
"The whole idea for the hotel was conceived to be a panacea to restore relations between the black community and leadership in Miami Beach," said Nancy Liebman, who was until last year a Miami Beach commissioner and one of the people criticized for statements she made about the 2001 hip-hop weekend.
"The hotel seems to be a very bright and shining star in the tourism aspect of Miami Beach," Ms. Liebman said. The mayor of Miami Beach, David Dermer, did not return calls requesting an interview.
Given the rocky road to making the Royal Palm a reality, Mr. Peebles said he was not looking for local officials to weigh in. "They should be proud and grateful that my company and I created the Royal Palm, and finished it," he said.
"We built this project under very challenging circumstances," he said. "There was contaminated soil, there was structural defects on the building, the hotel management industry basically collapsed, we had Sept. 11 after that, all those obstacles. The project went over $20 million over budget, and I didn't walk away."
Not only did he have his company and investors to consider, Mr. Peebles also had a personal investment in the Royal Palm, an elegantly appointed, $84 million resort. "I didn't want to be, as a developer, the person who failed to build the African-American-owned hotel," he said. "It would have allowed the city and others who may not be supportive of equal economic opportunity to say, 'Hey, we tried to build an African-American-owned hotel but the developer couldn't do it, so now we don't have that responsibility anymore.' "
Mr. Peebles has not stopped there. He is planning to transform the Bath Club, one of the oldest private clubs in the country, into 20-story condominiums and private villas with prices starting at $5 million.
If the Royal Palm sent a message, Mr. Peebles was making an even bolder statement with the Bath Club. Dating to the 1920's, the Mediterranean Revival-style club was once an exclusive getaway for wealthy snowbirds. Herbert Hoover was a member; in 1996, Mr. Peebles joined too. Soon after, a local newspaper reporter asked how he felt being the first African-American member of a club that had historically excluded blacks and Jews. He said he was stunned.
When he found out a few years later that the club was debt ridden and on the market for a mere $10 million, he bought it. Construction will begin later this year, he said.
Just as his projects blend old-style architecture and modern decor, Mr. Peebles himself is an image of contrasts. He began a recent interview by declaring, "I'm not an African-American businessperson -- I'm a businessperson." But promotional materials distributed by his office repeatedly refer to his business as African-American owned and his projects as African-American firsts.
Mr. Peebles also says he is committed to creating career opportunities for African-Americans. The general manager of the Royal Palm is black, and the hotel staff reflects the diversity he says he is striving for, though the Bath Club's sales and marketing staff is mostly white.
Mr. Peebles says that who he is and what he does involve a dual responsibility. "I'm a businessperson who has just as much of a sense of responsibility to my employees and my investors, but I also feel a sense of responsibility to the community I represent," he said.
The Royal Palm has come to be known as the black hotel, a distinction Mr. Peebles admits is simplistic, but embraces anyway. The hotel has also become a source of pride to some residents and tourists here.
Dwayne Bryant, an African-American firefighter from Newark who was visiting here for the first time on his vacation last week, said he switched hotels when a cab driver told him about the Royal Palm.
"It's long past due," Mr. Bryant said. "There should be more black-owned businesses out here. I mean, this place is for everyone -- it's not just for whites, not just for Latinos, not just for blacks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Donahue Peebles in front of the Royal Palm Crowne Plaza Resort, which he developed. (David Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); CITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); RADIO FORMATS (73%); RESORTS (73%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



85 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN INVESTORS TURNING CAUTIOUS ON SPENDING IN U.S. 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Foreign investors, who once joined with confident Americans in a wave of spectacular acquisitions and business spending that helped power the 1990's economic boom, are now turning cautious about the United States economy. That is compounding the current weakness and making it harder to achieve a robust recovery from last year's recession.
 With fresh acquisitions almost nil, foreign direct investment in the United States -- the technical name for acquiring a company or establishing one -- plummeted last year to $124 billion and started out this year at an even slower pace, the Commerce Department reports. That is down from a peak of $301 billion in 2000. 
 Companies from abroad, after a big expansion here in the last two decades, now have a large enough presence in the American corporate sector to strengthen or weaken the economy by their behavior. The hope among economists was that they would renew their spending this year, given all the expectations of a rapid recovery and the bargain prices at which many companies, particularly in the high technology sector, could be purchased. But it has not happened. 
"Foreigners were on the verge of investing again, until their confidence was upended by the corporate scandals and the slide in the stock market," said Mark M. Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm. "And now they cannot get financing and their own economies back home are weakening."
The steep falloff in foreign direct investment to set up shop in the United States contributed to an even more critical decline in capital investment by foreigners to expand or re-equip their operations here. That spending is off 15 to 20 percent, according to estimates by Joseph P. Quinlan, a global economist at Morgan Stanley, from its peak of $136 billion in 1999.
"The Europeans in particular came headlong into the American market with spectacular acquisitions and huge capital outlays for expansions that have not paid off," Mr. Quinlan said. "After that experience they are going to tiptoe back."
Foreign companies did not just seek out existing American enterprises to take over. They also put up new factories and offices and spent constantly to expand their operations here, rapidly increasing their contribution to the nation's economic growth. Europeans led the charge in the 1990's but the Japanese, despite a long period of stagnation at home, were not far behind.
No aspect of the American economy is more vital for the recovery than capital investment, which is the spending for new factories, machinery, computers, offices and all the other tools of production that contribute to economic expansion. Capital spending generates jobs and income as these tools of production are made and used. Such investments by foreigners have nearly doubled since 1986 as a percentage of total capital spending in the United States.
But now -- instead of bucking the tide, as the Japanese often did in the 1980's by outspending their American rivals -- most foreign companies are pulling back in step with their hosts. And foreign companies seem even less likely these days to take chances than American companies battered by the collapse of the technology boom and the corporate scandals. "That makes the recovery tentative at best," Mr. Zandi, the economist, said.
The Random House division of Bertelsmann, the German media giant, is entering a no-investment mode. It has spent $300 million on a headquarters building at Broadway and West 56th Street in Manhattan that will be ready for occupancy in the fall, and $100 million on information technology and distribution center expansion and upgrades, including turning a warehouse in Crawfordsville, Ind., into a distribution center for children's books.
But once that is done, capital spending plans will be on hold. "We have what we need," said Stuart Applebaum, a Random House spokesman.
The Sony Corporation, whose acquisitions of Columbia Pictures and CBS Records in the 1980's helped to stir a furor over what some American commentators described as the imperial ambitions of Japan Inc., is far less aggressive today. With its home economy in recession, Sony has slashed capital spending by 40 percent worldwide in the last two years and has closed 15 factories, two of them in the United States.
"We are investing less here," Greg Dvorken, a Sony official, said, adding hopefully, "but more strategically."
To be sure, foreign companies are not simply pulling up stakes in the United States. Many are continuing to look for opportunities to invest in what they see as the most promising industries.
In Kentucky, for example, where the state's economic development officials have been particularly successful in attracting new operations, foreign investment has fallen off less than that of American companies. In 1999, a peak year, 68 companies agreed to put manufacturing operations in Kentucky, 10 of them foreign, mainly Japanese and European. In the last two years, Kentucky has managed to attract fewer than 40 projects annually. But the shrunken number still included seven or eight from abroad each year.
Gene Strong, a top official of the state's economic development agency, attributes that achievement in part to Kentucky's strong role in carmaking.
The auto industry is indeed a bright spot in foreign investment in the United States. While Ford, for example, is cutting costs and closing factories, foreign auto makers are expanding, and trying to take away market share.
Toyota, with several operations in Kentucky, is in the midst of investing hundreds of millions of dollars to expand four of its American plants. And Hyundai has just started construction of a $1 billion assembly plant in Hope Hull, Ala. Once finished and operating at full tilt in four years or so, the plant, Hyundai's first in the United States, will employ 2,000 people and produce 225,000 cars a year, says Chris Hosford, a company spokesman.
"Our American sales are rising," he said, "and that justified the investment."
But apart from autos and a few other specialty areas, capital spending by foreign companies is by nearly every estimate falling from the high of $136.3 billion reached in 1998 and again in 1999, the most recent years for which data is available from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. From the low for the decade of $70 billion in 1993, capital spending by foreign companies shot up as the boom gathered steam to those two peak years.
The foreign contribution to the nation's capital spending in the 1990's rose to nearly 9 percent of all capital outlays in America's private sector in 1999 from less than 5 percent in 1986. The economy boomed because of the rapidly rising capital spending, particularly in telecommunications and high technology. And then the plunge in capital outlays set off a recession last year.
Today, consumers, housing, and increased federal spending sustain the weak recovery that apparently began around the beginning of this year. The uncertainty among economists is whether those sectors can hold up until capital spending revives -- once again generating jobs and income. While investment is no longer falling as fast as it once did, that upturn has not happened yet. About the only bright spot was a modest increase, after seven straight quarters of declines, in outlays for software and business equipment in the most recent quarter, from April through June.
Foreign ownership has made its way into almost every industry in the United States, and the recognition of its presence and importance is in striking contrast to the 1980's. Then, Japanese incursions into automaking, banking, entertainment and trophy real estate -- even the purchase of Rockefeller Center -- brought stiff resistance and public warnings about a Japanese juggernaut.
But as confidence in American competitiveness returned in the 1990's, foreign investment was welcomed. Now it has become necessary.
Sensitive to the nation's increased dependence on foreign-owned companies, Robert T. Betz, the just-retired president of Cognis North America, carefully explains how Cognis has dealt with capital spending after sales dropped because of Sept. 11. Cognis, largely owned by Schroeder Ventures, a British firm, is a chemical company in Cincinnati that makes ingredients mainly for beauty and health care products.
"None of our capital spending was stopped," Mr. Betz insisted. "It was reviewed. It was a matter of saying in December that we will do this in April. And we are starting to implement capital spending again now."
But at other foreign companies, cautiousness still reigns. At Coral Graphic Services, a unit of Bertelsmann that has four printing plants in this country, no further expansion is planned now that a new plant opened last month in Kentucky.
"There is always a little capital spending; you have to buy machines once in a while," said Gernot Wolf, a Bertelsmann spokesman.
"But no major expenditures," he added. "Not at all."

GRAPHIC: Photos: This Toyota plant in Georgetown, Ky., represents the growth in importance of foreign-owned businesses for the United States economy. (Mark Lyons)(pg. 22) Chart: "Proceeding With Caution"Foreign investors, who joined in the economic boom of the 1990s, have become more hesitant to buy American businesses and expand in the United States. Direct foreign investment in the United States Graph shows the amount invested in the United States economy by foreign investors since 1995 with first quarter predictions for 2002. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); SCANDALS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TIDE ASA (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: TIDE (OSL) (60%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4482 FERRIES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



86 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Coastal Village Preserves Its Nature 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: CASPAR, Calif. 

 BODY:
If California is the land of self-reinvention, Caspar could be the unofficial capital.
 Perhaps only in Caspar, a ragtag conglomeration of weeds and woolly renegades nestled on the Pacific coast just north of Mendocino, would villagers gather to spend a Sunday afternoon discussing the social implications of a spa. Perhaps only in this, yes, rather ghostly looking former mill town would a group of arty, aging back-to-the-landers and urban refugees recruit a family therapist and a landscape architecture professor from Berkeley to help wrest their town from sudden death. 
 They call themselves the Casparados. For five years, this unincorporated village's 500 or so residents -- no one knows the exact number, since Caspar is said to be a state of mind as well as a place -- have waged a sophisticated, impassioned campaign to preserve their town. 
Their crusade began in 1997, when the major landowner here announced that he was selling the heart of the town, about 300 acres including not just the center of the village but also the beach, the Caspar Creek and the hypnotic windswept headlands that collectively make up one of the largest stretches of undeveloped property on the California coast.
Haunted by visions of an oceanfront Ramada, the Casparados seized control of their fate. Instead of protesting, the motley group of former strangers transformed themselves into a nonprofit organization suspiciously resembling a government. Collectively, they began designing a master plan for the town. 
This summer, egged on by the community, the Mendocino Land Trust and a national organization called the Trust for Public Land assembled a $3.5 million patchwork of state and federal money to buy the majestic 71-acre headlands, which had been privately owned since the mid-19th century. Now the property is public, officially part of Caspar Headlands State Beach, California's newest state park.
The Casparados include a onetime drummer for the Byrds, the original writer of "The Muppet Show," the Grammy award-winning producer and songwriter for Sheryl Crow and Shelby Lynne, and a Bronx-born coffee maker who once ran a Hunter S. Thompson campaign for sheriff.
Caspar is considered unusual by professional planning experts, not only for the active stance of its citizens but also for the community-designed town plan -- still being hammered out -- which calls for ecology-sensitive growth, including the addition of 35 or 40 houses.
"We've skirted the hairy edge of Nimbyism," said Michael Potts, 57, the author of several books on living off the grid. Mr. Potts, who came here as a conscientious objector in the 70's, said, "There was no term for 'yes in my backyard.' "
What Caspar is saying "no" to lies five miles down the road, in Mendocino, itself a former lumber town with charming architecture now inhabited by T-shirt shops and $300-a-night bed-and-breakfasts. "Mendocino," said Madelin Holtkamp, executive director of the Economic Development and Financing Corporation of Mendocino County, a nonprofit organization, "is a place increasingly where nobody really lives."
Caspar itself looks improbable -- a combination of empty prairie and a tenuous assortment of buildings coexisting in fog. Among them: hand-built hippie houses; a raucous 100-year-old roadhouse; perhaps the only Norman Rockwell-looking synagogue in North America; and, in an oceanfront neighborhood waggishly called "splendid Caspar," an architectural statement recently featured in Architectural Digest.
"We have big money, new money, old money, people-wishing-they-had money and people-glad-they-don't-have money," said Judy Tarbell, 64, one of the most active Casparados.
This famously scenic coastline from Mendocino north to Fort Bragg -- Caspar being the fleeting speck between them on Highway 1 -- has undergone profound changes in recent years, with tourists displacing timber as the economic mainstay. Georgia-Pacific recently announced that in the fall it will close its mill in Fort Bragg, a traditionally working-class town. While Mendocino's picturesque inns stay afloat with minimum-wage seasonal labor, the average price of housing has soared above $475,000 in Mendocino village, buoyed by weekenders and vacationers breakfasting amid fresh flowers.
The Casparados say they want to avoid a "Mendo-reactive culture."
"We represent all of coastal California that shouldn't be adversely developed," Mr. Potts said. 
Caspar was presented with an unusual set of circumstances -- a huge, undeveloped parcel of coastal land put up for sale by a single owner -- the Caspar Cattle Company, a k a Oscar Smith, 61, who had spent most of his childhood in the town.
In 1990, Mr. Smith bought the 300 acres, once home to 5,000 millworkers, from the lumber company, where his uncle Jim Lilley had been supervisor for nearly 60 years. "I didn't want to see them bulldoze it into nothing," Mr. Smith said.
He, too, had dreams of forging a community here, he said, but he grew tired of environmental and coastal regulators. When the community caught wind of his intention to sell, they began holding boisterous, sometimes contentious monthly town meetings (hence the therapist).
They worked out their vision, with assistance from Randy Hester, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley who helps communities design public spaces.
Dr. Hester urged the Casparados to identify their most "sacred spaces" -- first and foremost the headlands and the creek, with its spawning Coho salmon and lush tangles of wild roses and sweet peas.
"Many California towns, because of growth pressures and second-home development, are facing the question of what they are going to become," he said. "What's amazing about Caspar is the fact that they didn't have a government, yet they've operated with the kind of direct democracy seen in colonial New England."
Meridian Green, a folk singer who has dedicated two CD's to her hometown, including "Live From Caspar," recorded with her husband, Gene Parsons, a former drummer in the Byrds, put it this way: "The community norm is self-expression. So when consensus occurs, that's really powerful." 
Now comes the emotionally charged task of composing a town center that, as the plan advocates, is "unostentatious, beautiful, nurturing." One hundred and forty acres of Caspar is "still up for grabs," Mr. Potts said.
Last month, a wealthy resident stepped in to help the Casparados secure the former grammar school, built in 1912, as a community center, where even the symbols on the flagpole -- the American flag, the state flag and the Earth Flag, in that order -- were the subject of deep philosophical debate.
Though still an unofficial body, the nonprofit Caspar Community now wields considerable local clout. The members have been talking with Habitat for Humanity about building lower-income housing, and they envision a strollable town center with solar-powered houses, shops, cottage industries, electric car hook-ups and perhaps the most important missing amenity, a bakery.
To Mr. Smith, the visions of the Casparados go only so far. "It's easy to hug each other and drink wine and be dreamy," he said. "But at some point someone is going to have to start digging dirt."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Caspar, Calif., an unincorporated coastal village near Mendocino, at their monthly town meeting. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting Caspar: The residents of Caspar, Calif., are seeking to preserve their town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); STATE PARKS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); WRITERS (66%); SONG WRITING (61%); MUSIC (61%); SHERIFFS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



87 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: C.E.O. to Retire Over Dating Worker 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: COVINGTON, Ky., Aug. 3 

 BODY:
Ashland Inc., the maker of Valvoline motor oil, said Friday that its chief executive, Paul W. Chellgren, will retire because he had violated a company policy on dating subordinates.
 Stan Lampe, a spokesman for the company, which is based here, said Mr. 
Chellgren violated Ashland's policy on office relationships. The policy, according to a copy provided by Mr. Lampe, states, "A supervisor may not date, or have a romantic relationship with an employee who reports through his or her management chain, even when the relationship is voluntary and welcome." 
 Mr. Chellgren, who is 59, had been chief executive for six years and also was chairman. He will step down effective Nov. 15, under an agreement with the board, Ashland said in a statement. The company, at a time when the economy has been roiled by business scandals, said his departure is not related to finances or operations.
Mr. Lampe declined to provide more details, and Mr. Chellgren was not available to comment. The employee involved was not identified.
A successor to Mr. Chellgren was not named.
Mr. Chellgren joined Ashland in 1974 as an assistant to its chief executive then, Orin Atkins. A year later, Mr. Atkins admitted making illegal contributions to President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign. Mr. Chellgren was named president and chief operating officer in 1992. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); PETROLEUM LUBRICANTS MFG (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SCANDALS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ASHLAND INC (97%)

TICKER: ASH (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (97%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (97%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



88 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: After Lean Years, A Hospital Boomlet 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
IN health care, the 1990's were a C decade, an era of cuts and consolidation. Forced to reduce overhead in the era of managed health care, staffs were trimmed to the bone, and Long Island hospitals merged with each other like crazy. A decade ago, most of the 27 hospitals on the Island were independent; now the local industry is dominated by five health systems, with only six unaffiliated hospitals.
 The 2000's are shaping up as an S decade: spending and specialization. Responding to medical advances and a growing shopper mentality, hospitals are introducing new services and upgrading existing departments. Many are trying to stand out from a crowded field by becoming centers for specialties like heart disease, cancer or emergency services. 
 It sounds like a multimillion-dollar competition for market share, no matter what James Harden says. 
Mr. Harden, the executive director of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center's regional care network, insisted that the 50,000-square-foot outpatient clinic it opened in June in Commack was strictly to give its Long Island patients an opportunity to receive cancer treatment closer to home. Mr. Harden said Sloan-Kettering anticipated about 35,000 visits to the Commack clinic, which handles screening, diagnosis, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgical consultations. The center will have a staff of 60, including 12 doctors.
Mr. Harden dismissed any suggestion that Sloan-Kettering was out to compete for patients with Long Island hospitals.
"I don't see where there is a contest," he said. "There are many other fine cancer providers on Long Island, and they have a very important role to play in delivering services."
Local hospital officials aren't buying it. "Most definitely they are a competitor," said Dr. Theodore G. Gabig, the vice president for cancer services at the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, based in Manhasset.
Kevin W. Dahill, the president of the Nassau-Suffolk Hospital Council, which represents the 24 nonprofit hospitals on Long Island, contends that Sloan-Kettering "must be scared" about losing Long Island patients. 
"When Long Islanders are presented with the opportunity, they prefer to stay on Long Island" for medical care, Mr. Dahill said.
Terence Lynam, the North Shore-L.I.J. Health System's director of public relations, noted that his system diagnosed and treated 45,000 cancer patients last year, more than Mount Sinai/N.Y.U. Health Systems, Sloan-Kettering or New York-Presbyterian.
Apparently, North Shore-L.I.J. wants to keep it that way: Mr. Lynam said his system was in the midst of a major fund-raising campaign to expand its cancer treatment program.
Dan Rosett, a spokesman for Stony Brook University Hospital, another Sloan-Kettering competitor, stressed that his institution's Long Island Cancer Center was the only university-based cancer center on the Island.
"As a part of the State University at Stony Brook, we can marshal all kinds of resources and talent from all specialties in the university," he said. "For example, I don't think the other hospitals have a department of biomedical engineering. And we have a center for molecular medicine and biophysics."
Mr. Dahill said that new medical advances were being made all the time and that hospitals were simply trying to keep up.
"There is no question that demand for services -- particularly for new technologies -- is increasing, and the hospitals have to respond by reconfiguring their space and environment," he said. 
"All of the hospitals were built and predicated upon in-patient stays," Mr. Dahill said. "They were built to be almost like a hotel in that regard. Now, with a lot of one-day stays, hospitals are more like shopping malls, and so traffic patterns and parking have changed and facilities have to be updated to reflect the way medicine is delivered."
He also noted the trend toward specialization. "Before hospitals develop a program, they scan the environment and determine what services are needed and what should be offered. What is new is the marketing of those services to the general public.
In the last six months, there has been a great deal of advertising about full-body CAT scans. In the past, marketing was to doctors because only they could appreciate new drugs or X-ray equipment. But much of the new technology is more understandable."
Officials of Long Island hospitals eagerly tout their newest services. St. Charles Hospital and Rehabilitation Center in Port Jefferson last month introduced a new type of computer-navigated surgery for joint replacements. 
"We compare it to a global positioning guidance system," said Janet R. Heller, the hospital's director of public relations. "You may know how to get to Peoria, but not to the exact house on Elm Street. This guides the surgeon's hands."
The Nassau University Medical Center in East Meadow recently completed an expansion and renovation of its emergency department's waiting room and is about to add another CAT scanning device in the emergency department. The emergency room treated 82,111 patients last year, the most of any hospital on Long Island.
Not to be outdone, the Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center in Patchogue is expanding its emergency room from 27,000 square feet to 35,000 square feet. Richard T. Margulis, the hospital's vice president for operations, said it would be the biggest on the Island.
"It will allow patients to be triaged upon entering the hospital and then go to an exam room," he said. "In most every other hospital, you have to sit and wait to be seen. We saw 52,000 patients last year and expect to see 60,000 this year."
Mr. Margulis said the emergency room would use computerized radiography equipment that shows an X-ray on a screen instantly, avoiding the need to develop film. 
Stony Brook University Hospital held the ribbon-cutting last month for a new 30,000-square-foot ambulatory surgery center, but Mr. Rosett, its spokesman, said the best was yet to come: the hospital expects to break ground in coming weeks on a new heart center, the first phase of a $250 million project "to rebuild and reinvent the hospital."
The improvements are not coming because Long Island is some kind of hospital backwater. In May, Modern Maturity, the AARP magazine, called North Shore University Hospital the best in the country. St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn was ranked third.
Some argue that the consolidations of the 1990's paved the way for today's projects.
"The reorganization is still in its infancy," said Mr. Dahill of the Nassau-Suffolk Hospital Council, "but many feel they have accomplished a great deal already in terms of cost reduction and improving medical care."
But Pearl Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, said she believed hospital consolidation on Long Island has been "too recent for us to come to any definitive conclusion concerning changes in patient outcome."
"I think we can conclude that the ability to buy in bulk and consolidate administrative functions will lead to economies of scale and cost reduction over the long run," she said, "but if you are talking of patient outcome, it takes several years and quite a bit of statistical data before you can conclude that patient care has improved, stayed the same or worsened."
Whether new buildings improve patient care is certainly subject to dispute. Pouring cold water on the new Sloan-Kettering clinic, Long Island hospital officials are quick to note that all surgical procedures requiring anesthesia must still be performed at Sloan-Kettering's main building in Manhattan.
Dr. Gabig of North Shore-L.I.J. contends that his institution does more than treat cancer after diagnosis. "Because we are a health care network comprised of 18 hospitals, we are in a position to emphasize research and the delivery of services for cancer prevention and early detection," he said. "One of the reasons why you would want to go to a hospital affiliated with the North Shore-L.I.J. system is because we provide a full continuum of care in the sense that we provide care that is local, in your neighborhood. And most importantly, we are there and available around the clock."
"If you go to Manhattan for surgery and Commack for chemotherapy or radiation therapy, what happens if complications occur in the middle of the night or on a holiday?" he added. "The Commack center says wait until the morning. But a local hospital provides care for complications. And our hospitals have access to your records and have better access to your physician or someone who is covering."
Dr. Harvey Finkelstein, an anesthesiologist and pain management specialist, said he believed Sloan-Kettering's Commack clinic would have little impact. "People will still go to their local oncologists, who provide a very high level of care," he said. "There is no impetus for them to go" to Sloan-Kettering.
Dr. Finkelstein said the true test would be whether Sloan-Kettering was able to recruit enough local doctors willing to send their patients to Sloan-Kettering for treatment.
"But what's the incentive for them to do that?" he said. "Many oncologists administer chemotherapy in their office."
Dr. Finkelstein said patients who may especially benefit from having Sloan-Kettering in Commack are those with rare cancers or those in advanced stages of the disease that require experimental treatments. And, he said, it would be a good place to go for a second opinion.
"The question is," Dr. Finkelstein added, "will they be able to steal patients who go there for a second opinion?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING Cancer Center has opened a facility, top, in Commack so that Island patients can receive treatment closer to home. Lascelles Case, left, of Jamaica, Queens, receives chemotherapy at Long Island Jewish Medical Center's Finkelstein Foundation of Radiation Oncology, closer to Mr. Case's home. (Photographs by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center is expanding its emergency room to 35,000 square feet. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); CANCER HOSPITALS (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); ONCOLOGY (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); RADIOLOGY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); HEART DISEASE (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (91%) MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: HARDEN, JAMES; AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY); COMMACK (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



89 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Business Is Better; the Bartender's Drinking 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Some New York bar and restaurant owners say they knew the economic climate was getting dire when their waiters, waitresses and bartenders vanished during their off hours. For a time after Sept. 11, tips fell so sharply that employees could not afford to spend their time on the drinking side of the bar, where half their drinks were often free. 
 Things are not yet so good, owners say, that employees are spending their off-hours at other bars, where they get no special consideration. But across Manhattan, bar and restaurant owners report more of their employees hanging out after work. 
 "They have more money to spend because tips are real good," said Kevin O'Lunney, the owner of Kevin St. James, a quirky Irish pub on Eighth Avenue at 47th Street. "I only worry about whether they will be at work on time the next day." 
It may be too early to tell whether restaurants, bars and other tourism-related businesses are in full recovery. But, according to employment figures, tourism is one of the few segments of the New York City job market that has shown growth since Sept. 11. And within that sector, bars and restaurants -- among the hardest-hit by the terrorist attack -- are the subsection hiring most quickly.
Restaurants in the city have experienced three back-to-back months of job growth from April to June, according to seasonally adjusted employment data analyzed by The New York Stat, a newsletter on the local economy. In total, the bar and restaurant industry lost about 11,900 of its 161,800 jobs after the attack and since bottoming out has brought back 5,500 workers, even though many of the jobs pay less. 
"No one thought tourism would be back this quickly," said Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist at The New York Stat, who says she believes that tourism is driving the restaurant and bar rebound.
That has been good news for people like Lorraine Dowd, who came to New York last August to live with her aunt in Maspeth, Queens, and quickly found a job as a waitress in a Midtown restaurant. 
Ms. Dowd, 22, was supposed to start on Sept. 12. Instead, she began working a week later. The job paid $40, plus tips, for an eight-hour shift. "It was really slow," she said recently. "There was barely anyone on the street. I liked to remind customers that we did not make a lot of money -- wink, wink; I hoped they would leave a good tip." 
After several months, Ms. Dowd, who grew up in County Kilkenny, Ireland, quit her job, in part because she was unhappy with the money, and considered leaving the country. But in April, she was able to find a job at Kevin St. James. "It was a miracle, but it worked out perfectly," she said.
The signs of improvements in the job market for waiters, waitresses, cooks and other bar and restaurant workers can be seen everywhere tourists roam, from B. B. King's club on 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, to the Harp, a bar on 32nd Street and Seventh Avenue that attracts a mix of people coming out of Madison Square Garden and tourists leaving Macy's.
At some bars and restaurants, the rebound is being driven by a mix of tourists as well as New Yorkers and suburbanites who rediscovered Manhattan after Sept. 11. B. B. King's, a blues and jazz club, is one of those places. Employees there said they bonded when times got tough after the attacks, helping provide one another with everything from a place to live to extra cash when tips were bad. As business began improving, workers say, they started hanging out more at the bar.
"It's definitely gotten a lot better since 9/11," said Rachel Bialkowski, 27, an off-duty waitress at B. B. King's who was drinking Scotch at the bar. "We are getting out and spending more money because we can afford to."
At the Harp, sports fans and businesspeople at lunch are returning. The sour economy changed the way the Harp's employees spent their off hours. "We went out anyway," Karolyne Sweeney, a waitress, said of the weeks and months of bad tips at the beginning of the year, while drinking at another bar owned by her bosses. "Now, more money means more beer." 
Ms. Denham, the economist, said that April is a month in which bars and restaurants in New York traditionally begin gearing up for summer crowds. But Ms. Denham said that this year's increases in jobs were much higher than normal, driven in part by an attempt to compensate for deep staff cuts right after the attack.
Ms. Denham added, "The weak dollar has made coming here more attractive for a lot of visitors, and Middle America has picked up some of the slack where international tourists left off."
At Kevin St. James, shiny cutouts of shamrocks dangle from the ceiling, but this is not the average Irish bar. More Williamsburg, Brooklyn, than Old Country, the bar attracts a healthy number of tourists with its digital jukebox that spews a mix of 30,000 pop, rock, jazz and R & B songs, a menu that includes Mediterranean cuisine, and a staff that hails from places like India, Mexico, Ecuador and Bosnia (it did not hurt that the bar gained a bit of a global following through beer.com, which installed a live Webcam above the bar for a while).
Mr. O'Lunney, 26, who opened Kevin St. James three years ago, believes his bar has weathered the worst of this downturn.
"I like to say, 'My family has been serving Guinness for over 100 years,' " said Mr. O'Lunney, a fourth-generation bar owner who remembers serving his first drink at age 6 in a family bar in County Cavan, Ireland. "We have now seen and been through it all." 
The rebound has allowed Mr. O'Lunney to hire people like Ms. Dowd, a short woman with hair the color of obsidian, whose uniform includes sandals with two-inch heels. She arrived at about 9:30 one recent morning. By lunchtime, the bar and a couple of tables were packed with businesspeople and the ironworkers from a construction site nearby. By the late evening, the bar was packed with tourists and others.
Soon, Ms. Dowd was done with work and settling down with a few Heineken beers and a couple of friends, including a waitress from Brooklyn. As she relaxed, Ms. Dowd began pointing to the upsides and downsides of the job: the men who think they are Don Juan (bad); the friendships a bartender can develop with customers (good); and the tips (good right now, and now is what matters).
She considers herself fortunate to have a job. "It was an accident. I was lucky, but it's great craic," she said, using the Irish word for fun that is often reserved for having a good laugh at the most absurd of circumstances.
At 12:59 a.m., with the music blaring but the crowd dwindling, a waitress nearing the end of her shift put the check on the table. As if to make a point about the importance of tipping and their ability to leave a good one, Ms. Dowd and her co-workers at the table laid down $100 on a bill of $48.12.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lorraine Dowd works at Kevin St. James, a pub on Eighth Avenue, then moves to the other side of the bar when her shift ends. Business is good, she says, which allows her to be a patron as well as an employee. (Lauren Fleishman for The New York Times); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); DRINKING PLACES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%) RESTAURANTS; LABOR; WAITERS AND WAITRESSES; TIPS AND TIPPING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; BARS; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



90 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 2; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3554 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of the Perma-Temp 

BYLINE:  By Leslie Berger; Leslie Berger wrote about student mental health for the Jan. 13 issue of Education Life.

 BODY:
In a beige classroom so spare that there isn't a poster or a bookcase to warm it, Elaine Bobrove passes out her last reading assignment of the semester -- Langston Hughes's "Theme for English B." It's a clear enough poem, about a black student trying to relate to his white instructor, a perfect assignment for a rainy spring day when Ms. Bobrove's Camden County College students are through with finals and ready to put her remedial reading course behind them.
The impatience for this last class to end is palpable, but the sanguine Ms. Bobrove forges ahead with one final discussion. 
 "So," she starts, "what did you learn from each other and what did you learn from me?" She is echoing the poem's penultimate sentence: "As I learn from you,/ I guess you learn from me -/ although you're older -- and white -/ and somewhat more free." 
 Spinning gold out of air has become instinctive for Ms. Bobrove, an adjunct professor who was paid $1,300 a course last academic year. She has no office (the windshield of her station wagon sports a sun reflector that reads "Adjunct Office") and receives no benefits, though she has taught at Camden County for 20 years. The room where she alternately coaxes and goads literary insights, a sagging ceiling tile its only remarkable feature, is an apt metaphor for a low-overhead, no-frills academic career.
The students shift in their chairs and stare out the windows toward the full parking lots and freshly mown
lawns of their campus in suburban Blackwood, N.J., about 15 miles from Philadelphia. This is one of New Jersey's biggest community colleges, where SAT's are not required, tuition costs $1,860 a year and, as Ms. Bobrove puts it, "We give people second chances." 
"What did you like best, of all the things we read here?" she presses. 
Finally, a young woman breaks the silence by singling out the essay "Arranging a Marriage in India," by the cultural anthropologist Serena Nanda. That fires up her classmate, John Hoffman, who straightens his slouch to defend a man's right to pick his own bride. "You spend your whole lifetime looking at women," he argues passionately. "I don't want to marry that chick. I want to marry this chick I met on the street!" 
"Did it make you think about different cultures?" Ms. Bobrove persists, once the laughter dies down.
"Yeah."
"Good. That's what reading's all about."
Community colleges have always made generous use of part-time teachers; at Camden County, they outnumber full-timers about 3 to 1. Their mission -- to make higher education more accessible -- depends on low tuition. Staffing fluctuates with enrollment. Community colleges are also big providers of vocational training, whose instructors are expected to bring real-life experience into the classroom.
But perma-temps like Ms. Bobrove are becoming more common, not only in cash-poor two-year colleges but also in well-endowed four-year institutions. Forty-three percent of the faculty members at all institutions are part time. Moreover, from 1993 to 1998, the last period for which the Department of Education has compiled data, 40 percent of all institutions took some action to reduce full-time faculty; of those, 22 percent replaced them with part-time instructors.
The cost-efficient, highly flexible system of perma-temps, used for years by community colleges, is serving as a template for the rest of academe, including some of the country's most prestigious universities. At New York University, where part-time teachers voted this summer to join a union, the number of adjuncts (2,700, not including summer instructors) nearly equals the number of full-timers (3,100).
There are several theories about the prevalence of contingent faculty, the most popular and cynical being money. 
"It's just a reality that part-time, adjunct faculty substantially reduce institutional payrolls," said Richard Chait, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and an expert in how colleges and universities are managed. 
Though their increasing presence has prompted widespread concern -- among parents who want full professors for their tuition dollars and among parity-seeking part-timers who have initiated union drives across the country -- little research has been done on the effects of part-time teachers on education. In the classroom, experts say, the difference in teaching quality between tenured and contingent instructors seems to be indiscernible, especially among students who themselves are increasingly part time. Only a handful of very limited studies have been done on adjunct teaching, and they have found (in some cases, to the benefit of the institutions conducting the studies) that most students are only vaguely aware of their teachers' employment status. 
There are consequences, but they are subtle, experts say -- in the lack of adjuncts' participation in campus life, their absence as student advisers and curriculum planners and in the ultimate vulnerability of a faculty fractured into tiers of privilege, including many without the protection of tenure.
"It consolidates greater authority and power into the hands of the president and provosts, and makes for a more malleable academic labor market," said John Thelin, a historian of higher education who teaches at the University of Kentucky. "I feel that institutional control is more of an issue than money."
The idea of full-time career professors is actually relatively new in America. "Usually what you found from Colonial times until well into the 20th century was a strong reliance on lecturers, tutors, instructors -- a dozen different names -- and these would be a kind of floating pool of talent," Dr. Thelin said. "They were pretty expendable from year to year. It's really only with the exception of a very few institutions that you even find the term 'professor' being used very much until the late 19th century."
That's when the notion of tenure took hold. Intended to safeguard intellectual freedom, it was a direct response to efforts by wealthy industrialists who were underwriting elite universities to suppress their professors' populist ideas. Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University, likes to cite the case of a Stanford University professor, a radical sociologist named Edward A. Ross, who called for railroad systems to be owned by governments instead of private interests. The trouble was, Leland Stanford's widow headed the university's trustees and Stanford himself, a former California governor, had amassed great wealth as a railroad builder. "The obvious remedy was to have Professor Ross fired," Dr. Levine said.
After similar arbitrary dismissals, American academe eventually adopted the German university model, with its research-oriented faculty of experts and the protection of lehrfreiheit, or freedom to teach, without political restraints. Today, Dr. Thelin said, the pendulum seems to be swinging back to the more fluid system -- partly because of cost, partly because of control and partly in response to changing attendance patterns, including the advent of online courses. 
"The new student is no longer 18 to 22 and full time, living on campus," Dr. Levine said. "That's only about 16 percent. The new majority is older, part-time working women who want to take an occasional course when they're free. The economy is changing, so people need more and more education, but they don't all need degrees. Universities are trying to adapt to a new era."
Tenure is unlikely to become extinct, he said. For one, competitive institutions will always offer such perks to top names in their field. But there is little doubt that tenure is more and more a luxury. Although 64 percent of the faculty members who retired from fall 1997 to fall 1998 had left tenured positions, only 45 percent of those who were hired were given immediate tenure or tenure-track jobs. 
"The full-time, tenured faculty member is about as representative of higher education today as Ozzie and Harriet are of American society," Dr. Chait of Harvard said.
Some experts suggest that, with the growing distinction between those who teach knowledge and those who create it, not all college instructors should strive for tenure, which is a system designed for scholars engaged in advanced research. A realignment of thinking may be in order.
"The tenure-track model alone is not meeting all the educational needs of a society in which a larger and larger percentage of the population is participating in higher education," said Roger G. Baldwin, a professor at Michigan State University and co-author of "Teaching Without Tenure: Policies and Practices for a New Era." "I'm not advocating the abolition of tenure," he added, "but I do believe there are other educational needs to be filled by other types of faculty."
A self-deprecating woman whose outlook is as practical as her short, silvery shag, Ms. Bobrove would be the first to acknowledge she is far from the cusp of intellectual innovation. She is the face of meat-and-potatoes academia, an unglamorous but essential part of postsecondary education. In many ways, Ms. Bobrove is a typical adjunct professor: she is dedicated but bristles at her perceived second-class status; she works in the humanities, relegated to teaching the basics; though she is completing her doctorate in education, at Widener University outside Philadelphia, she unabashedly prefers the classroom to the library. "I always wanted to work with students; I was less interested in research," she says. 
It is a brilliant, thoroughly unrepentant day in this bucolic part of New Jersey, with azaleas and dogwood blooming outside Victorian mansions. As Ms. Bobrove tools around in her Yankee-blue station wagon, its headrests covered in white doilies, she describes her work and how she came to it without regret.
She left an N.Y.U. doctorate program decades ago to raise a family. She has another life as an educational consultant in Haddonfield Township, where her clients range from children with learning problems to teenagers preparing for the SAT's. Her skill may be decoding literature rather than literary deconstruction, but in her view, teaching others to read well is every bit as important in a democracy as lehrfreiheit. 
"I once ran into a former student in a store who'd come out of the service barely able to read, barely decoding even," she recalls as she circles the campus and finally finds a parking space. "He was working as an accountant in New York City and getting his master's degree. Now, you tell me, in what other country could that happen, where you really can come and make something of your life?" 
Despite her status as a contingent faculty member, Ms. Bobrove is also a mainstay of her department. She typically teaches four courses a semester, for $10,400 a year. (A full-time instructor, for an entry-level salary of $38,000, plus benefits, would most likely teach five courses.) In fact, she helped train her supervisor, Elisabeth Bass. Adjuncts, Dr. Bass said, "are the front lines and are doing the majority of the teaching."
No one could prove it, but the consensus is that Ms. Bobrove's age (which she refuses to make public) and outspokenness, as well as diversity hiring efforts, worked against her when she came up for full-time appointments. With her bachelor's degree from Rochester University and a master's in education from Rutgers, she easily meets the qualifications to teach in a community college. Ms. Bobrove appears to be widely respected. This month, she won a $1,000 academic excellence award, one of three given each year to Camden County College adjuncts. There was a time when she wanted to be a full-fledged professor, Ms. Bobrove admits. But that's no longer the case. "I'm doing this because I truly enjoy the learning and knowing what's going on," she says. "I believe in lifelong learning and feel I'm an example of lifelong learning." 
Still, the inequities between her and her full-time colleagues clearly stick in her craw. Even though adjuncts at Camden have been unionized for several years, they think they are still being exploited. Ms. Bobrove is a co-president of Local 4965 for the American Federation of Teachers. This fall, with their contract expiring in December, she will help negotiate for higher wages, for the ability to buy into the state's health plan and for a seniority system to protect adjuncts from arbitrary replacement. 
Part of a work force in transition, adjuncts are a highly varied group whose plights depend on the glut of degrees and pay scales in their fields. Those in business, law, medicine or the sciences can be handsomely paid in return for their time, while those in the humanities are competing for fewer jobs to begin with and have fewer marketable skills. 
Mark Colby is a classic example of a so-called roads scholar, someone who teaches at more than one campus. It's not that he lacks the right academic degrees or did not study at prestigious institutions: Dr. Colby, 47, has four master's degrees and two doctorates in philosophy -- one from Columbia University and another from Oxford. Despite his blue-chip credentials, he has had to cobble together an academic career because full-time philosophy professors are in such low demand. One college told him it had received 800 applications for a single opening; he's had only about 10 job interviews in a decade. Last spring, he commuted twice a week by train from his home in Queens to his semester-long appointments in New Jersey. Between the nine undergraduate discussion sections he helped operate at Princeton and the two courses he led at Rutgers, he earned a respectable $28,000 for the five-month term. 
"I had expected more with my credentials, to be honest with you," he said. "My letters of recommendation are exemplary. There is nothing wrong with my dossier. But there are so many applicants chasing only so many full-time positions."
Roads scholars represent only a fifth of all adjuncts, according to David W. Leslie, a professor of education at the College of William and Mary and co-author of "The Invisible Faculty: Improving the Status of Part-Timers in Higher Education." Most part-time instructors, Dr. Leslie said, have other occupations and teach part time for pleasure, prestige, family-friendly schedules or extra income.
In a 1998 study for the Department of Education, nearly 60 percent of adjuncts surveyed said they were working part time because full-time jobs were unavailable, but nearly 75 percent also said they preferred a part-time position. Even among part-time humanities teachers at four-year institutions, those who preferred part-time jobs were virtually equal to those who said they were working part time because full-time jobs were unavailable. 
"The good news is that part-time faculty provide an extraordinarily rich source of expertise that institutions might not otherwise find," Dr. Leslie said. "The bad news is that in some fields, there is such an oversupply of qualified people that institutions may be tempted to exploit them. This is a problem mainly in the humanities and the arts. It doesn't seem to be a problem across the board."
Endowed by the lore of Greenwich Village, a renowned film school and celebrity alumni, N.Y.U. has a cachet that Camden County College simply cannot match. Yet the two institutions' adjuncts have similar complaints -- that they are part of a disproportionately large contingent labor pool without job security or comparable pay. With N.Y.U.'s undergraduate tuition at $26,646 a year (with an additional $10,430 for room and board), the expectation may be that the university is full of tenured professors. But its use of adjuncts is slightly higher than the national average.
Last month, N.Y.U. adjuncts decided in a runoff election to join the United Auto Workers. The U.A.W. and the American Federation of Teachers have been courting adjuncts nationwide as the disparities between full-time and part-time faculty have increased. 
Part-time faculties are already widely organized at state institutions. Trustees of the vast City University of New York, which has 7,250 part-time instructors and 5,640 full-timers, recently agreed to pay adjuncts for the extra time they spend working with students -- an unusual, although not unique, perk. The new contract also provides a paid semester off for research for full-time instructors without tenure and creates a new class of faculty member, distinguished lecturer, for artists or professionals who are not seeking tenure.
The successful union drive at N.Y.U. -- creating the largest adjuncts-only union and the first at a private university -- was also a milestone: it is expected to lead to more adjuncts' unions at other private institutions, including the Ivy League.
A spokesman for N.Y.U., John Beckman, said that only a small percentage of teaching was done by adjuncts within the arts and sciences. Most adjuncts -- about 1,900 -- are in specialized schools like the Tisch School of the Arts, the Steinhardt School of Education and the School of Continuing and Professional Studies.
Many programs benefit from working professionals, Mr. Beckman said. "Indeed," he continued, "our estimate is that some 80 percent of adjuncts have a full-time job, and they come to N.Y.U. to teach in their field of expertise and share their experience." 
"The unions," he said, "have sought to obscure the distinctions between, say, a tenured professor of biology, who is conducting research on cancer and teaching freshman biology in the College of Arts and Science, and a professional musician who, as an adjunct, comes to give music lessons at N.Y.U. in our Steinhardt School of Education."
Unions and adjuncts say that such an argument is beside the point, that contingent faculty members are often reappointed year after year, making them virtual staff members with lower pay and no job security and without a hand in curriculum planning. 
Gerald S. Pallor, a 54-year-old freelance television producer who has taught video technology at N.Y.U. for 12 years, said the last course he taught for the Tisch School was restructured in a way that made it confusing for his undergraduates. But he did not complain because he did not want to risk his reappointment. He was also thrown off by a schedule that interfered with the pacing of his courses for the School of Continuing and Professional Studies.
Mr. Pallor, who was dropped as a Tisch adjunct two years ago but continues to teach in the other program, says that after repeated semesters of work for his alma mater he feels entitled to a measure of job security. Administrators declined to comment on personnel matters, but Mr. Pallor said he was not reappointed just as he reached his 10th year and was eligible for a significant raise, from about $3,000 to $5,000 a course. He acknowledged garnering mediocre ratings from his students but said that was not unusual among the faculty. "At Tisch, my last semester was just awful because I didn't know what I was supposed to be teaching because the schedule was so confusing," Mr. Pallor said. "Undoubtedly, students suffer." 
In N.Y.U.'s German department, Michael Schultz described a tortuous caste system in which layers of instructors, all with different titles and pay levels, are increasingly resentful of one another and protective of their privileges. Although a full-time instructor with a fixed contract, Dr. Schultz says he identifies with adjuncts because he feels underpaid for doing work that his tenured colleagues shun. He was hired 10 years ago to coordinate and teach basic language instruction to undergraduates and supervise six to eight graduate students. With a title of senior language lecturer and a salary of $54,000 a year, Dr. Schultz said he felt he was viewed as a technician because he taught reading and writing instead of literary criticism. 
"I am acutely aware on a daily basis that the work I do is considered less valuable," Dr. Schultz said. "I'm bothered by the imbalance of lots of people doing huge amounts of work to educate the undergraduates with little voice and little pay."
On her last day of class, Ms. Bobrove draws hard upon her metacognitive skills to keep the discussion rolling. She turns to Jerry Bailey, a softspoken aspiring veterinarian who graduated from high school six years ago and has been working his way through Camden County College a course or two at a time. Mr. Bailey knows that Ms. Bobrove is part time, but he says he does not feel cheated, recalling that he was so discouraged at the beginning of the spring semester that he almost dropped out. Ms. Bobrove urged him to stay in school.
"Jerry, what did you like?" she asks. 
Mr. Bailey cites the searing essay "The Bill of Rights for Black Men: Walking While Black," which describes Bryonn Bain's unjust arrest in New York City while on break from Harvard Law School in 1999. 
"He thought he couldn't be victimized, and he had failed to recognize there's still prejudice in the world, and here he was a law student," Mr. Bailey says.
Then, in a moment so perfect it would seem scripted if not for Ms. Bobrove's unimpressed expression, Mr. Bailey suddenly thanks her for her dedication. He leaves the anger of Bryonn Bain and seamlessly circles back to Langston Hughes.
"By making me feel successful," he tells her, "it should make you feel successful as a teacher."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some 43 percent of the nation's faculty members are part time. Elaine Bobrove, above, an adjunct for 20 years, mines her class for literary insights.; They call them roads scholars, professors who teach at more than one campus. Mark Colby logs heavy commuting time to his jobs in New Jersey. (Photographs by Michael Branscom for The New York Times); New York University adjuncts voted in June to join a union, which would be the largest of its kind. (Photographs by William C. Lopez for The New York Times)muting time to his jobs in New Jersey. (Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); TUITION FEES (72%); WOMEN (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; CAMDEN COUNTY COLLEGE; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: BOBROVE, ELAINE; COLBY, MARK; BERGER, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



91 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2749 words

HEADLINE: The Baby Bias 

BYLINE:  By Hal Cohen; Hal Cohen is a freelance writer in madison, Wis., and a former contributing writer at Lingua Franca.

 BODY:
When Marcia Inhorn had her first child, she took a paid leave from the anthropology department at Emory University and, on return, took on extra classes to make up the teaching she had missed. But as her hours as a mom started to compete with her hours as a professor, her relations with the department soured. 
 "Some of the senior men saw my reproduction as interfering with my citizenship in the department," says Dr. Inhorn, who has since joined the University of Michigan. "They didn't let children impede at all on their total, engulfing commitment to their careers, and although I did everything I was asked to do quite well, I was giving to my family as well." 
 When she came up for tenure in 1997, there was no mistaking she was a rising star: she had published three books and numerous articles, won a major award and fulfilled her teaching and service requirements. "They couldn't deny me tenure," she says, "but it was written into my documentation, time and again, that I was a mom. That would never happen to a man." 
In a written review, the committee noted that her dedication had faltered -- "due perhaps to the fact that she has recently had her first child and has had to juggle teaching obligations with those of new motherhood." While she always does an excellent job, the committee added, "her own agendas and needs will at times win out over those of the department."
The department chairman at the time, Bradd Shore, wonders what the problem is. "If the expectations for her were somehow unreasonable because she was a mother," he says, "you would see that at the point where she was going to get tenure. The proof is in the pudding, and in the end she got promoted." The department also made "extraordinary allowances," he says, allowing her to take her children to work when necessary. "The university," he says, "does not make special provisions for working mothers by changing the standards for performance." 
Dr. Inhorn throws up her hands. "You simply can't give 100 percent to the academy when you have children," she says.
CREATING a Life: Professional Women and the Quest for Children," the recent study by the economist Sylvia Ann Hewlett, has rekindled a decades-old lament about the painful choices between childbearing and professional work. But perhaps nowhere has the debate been more heated than in the academy.
It would seem that a university -- with its ability to allow teachers to work from home, its paid sabbatical semester and its famously liberal thinking -- would be an ideal place to balance career and family. But by all accounts, the intense competition, the long hours and the unspoken expectations of the academy's traditionally male culture conspire to make it really, really hard to have a baby and be a professor.
Many women simply put off having children. But the juncture of the biological clock with the tenure clock -- the probationary period, typically seven years, during which an assistant professor must prove herself to her department before receiving a permanent appointment -- couldn't be more inopportune. The median age for receiving a Ph.D. is 34, so by the time a woman is up for tenure, she is 40 and confronting higher infertility rates.
"Creating a Life" caused a stir by reporting that only 67 percent of "high-achieving" women -- lawyers, doctors and executives -- have children by age 40. A forthcoming study by the University of California at Berkeley found that among tenured humanities and social science professors in their 40's, only 38 percent of the women have children, compared with 61 percent of men; in the sciences, it was 50 percent compared with 70 percent of the men. 
The statistics are no surprise to Martha West, a law professor at the University of California at Davis who works with the American Association of University Professors. "Parenting," she says, "is not a welcome event in the academy." 
To help ease women's Hobson's choice, the Association of University Professors approved a model policy last November drafted by Dr. West. In addition to calling for reductions or reorganizations of new-parent workloads, it recommends stopping the tenure clock for up to two years, whether or not a new parent takes a leave, to give new moms or dads more time to fulfill their tenure requirements. 
The tenure system presents parents with several layers of challenges. Three criteria are reasonably objective: scholarship (measured by number of publications) and teaching and service (measured in hours). Children can easily soak up enough time to put any of these in jeopardy. But tenure decisions also rely on a fourth criterion, collegiality -- "a concept that is, almost by design, impossible to define," says Pamela Haig, a researcher with the legal advocacy fund of the American Association of University Women. What with the secrecy of tenure committees, collegiality is sufficiently pliant as a pretext for tenure denial that in 1999 the Association of University Professors flatly recommended that it not be weighed in tenure decisions at all. 
In practice, collegiality means adhering to a mostly unspoken assortment of expected behaviors, and having babies is not on that list. 
Sharon Block, an assistant professor of history at the University of California at Irvine, remembers a comment made last fall by a senior faculty member in her department about what he called the two misfortunes that had caused her to take off much of the previous year: spine surgery and childbirth. "I think that demonstrates what babies are from the academic perspective," she says. "A pain."
In timing and effect on family life, the tenure-track system mirrors partner track at a law firm. But in academia, the personal stakes are higher: after six or more years of preparatory graduate work, tenure-track professors start in the relatively meager $40,000's. They will not earn much more without tenure. They work like dogs. They have virtually zero job mobility. And if rejected for tenure, they're basically fired. In short, dropping off the tenure track means life as a low-paid, low-prestige adjunct or instructor. The majority of these are women -- academia's mommy track. 
Of course, there are academics who are content to be child-free. The Harvard sociologist Barbara Reskin started teaching in the early 70's, when, she says, academic women almost invariably chose their careers over children. "The women who were successful in my field worked all the time -- evenings, weekends, Christmas," so Dr. Reskin opted against children. "It hasn't felt like such a sacrifice," she says, "because the only alternative was not being a sociologist.
THE week after delivering her first child, in 1990, Katherine Bowie went back to teaching anthropology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. "I felt I had to be Superman," says Dr. Bowie, who was then a 40-year-old tenure-track striver in a very small club: junior faculty mothers. "I was hemorrhaging, as it turned out, but who could I talk to? There weren't any moms around to tell me I was bleeding too much."
The next term, Dr. Bowie took a leave and stopped the tenure clock, but during her absence the department decided not to renew her appointment. "You have to crank as much out as you can on the ten-
ure clock," she says, quoting conventional wisdom, "so you must be some kind of idiot if you decide to try and start a family. Anyone creating distractions for themselves must not be aiming for the top." 
Dr. Bowie appealed successfully -- the administration was pushing women's issues and immediately understood that the dismissal was based on maternity, according to Janet Hyde, the campus's newly appointed vice chancellor overseeing gender equity, who spoke on Dr. Bowie's behalf at the department's appeal proceedings. "I suggested some better ways to think about the issues," Dr. Hyde recalls. "They saw the light." 
Dr. Bowie was reinstated and eventually received tenure. "I worked my butt off researching and writing, to be sure that when I came up for tenure, I would be in unassailable shape," she says. 
Most of her female colleagues waited for tenure to start a family. But by then it was too late, and they were unable. "That's a heavy price," she says.
Dr. Bowie was a pioneer at Madison, which had adopted its tenure-clock policy just two years earlier. She testified before a state senate committee when a systemwide policy was adopted in 1994. "This wouldn't happen again in my department," she says. "People thought about things." 
With young professors increasingly having children, other selective research universities, including the University of California system, have responded with more family-friendly policies. Last year, the faculty union at the University of Massachusetts negotiated a package using elements of the model prepared by the American Association of University Professors. Basically, the more elite the institution, the greater the competition for faculty and the better the policies. 
But most campuses, private and public, make no allowances beyond what is guaranteed by the 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act: 12 weeks off, unpaid, with benefits.
The association's model policy was a flash point for the State University of New York's faculty union, which expects to bargain for a better family leave policy when contract negotiations are held in January. 
For a normal birth, SUNY professors get only the 12 unpaid weeks mandated by law, though any banked sick days can be used to draw salary for half that time; an additional four-month leave can be taken but without pay or benefits. 
In academia, the 12-week leave is awkward, as it usually requires canceling classes for the entire semester, saddling a professor with as much as half a year away from work, unpaid.
"Which is fine if you have a lot of money," says William Scheuerman, the union president. "But most state workers don't." There's always that paid sabbatical semester, but scholars are loath to use it for maternity because they would fall behind nonparents on their research. 
Administrators have concerns about longer family leaves. A professor on leave "requires the chair to assess: do we cancel the classes? Do we go out and hire an adjunct, or do I have someone here who can teach this?" says Stephen Beditz, assistant vice president for human resources management at SUNY at Albany. Relying on colleagues to pick up the load would be unfair, Mr. Beditz adds, but if the department has to hire outside help "then you're looking at some serious resource issues -- there's not a whole lot of slack resources for that kind of thing." 
Mr. Beditz says he worries that formalizing clock stoppage and other accommodations -- currently an individual arrangement between department head and employee -- "would take the prerogative away from the departmental chair, and that would have a deleterious and limiting effect on faculty governance."
The idea of giving new parents more time to fulfill tenure requirements has proved controversial among the rank and file, too. Last winter, when The Chronicle of Higher Education held an online discussion about the new model policy, many respondents were ferociously against special rights for moms (one labeled them prima donnas). And some of these respondents were women. One professor who teaches philosophy at Rice University declared herself "tired of children and breeders getting all the consideration all the time." An assistant dean at Ferris State University in Big Rapids, Mich., complained of "maternity leaves, restricted scheduling and all sorts of 'emergencies"' that put childless people "in a position of assuming tasks from those who do have children." Realize, she wrote, that with childbearing "comes sacrifice and additional responsibilities." 
Whatever a policy allows, the high-pressure culture of tenure-track life often discourages professors from taking advantage of it. For instance, at the University of Michigan, considered a model for family-friendly campuses (M.I.T. has copied its policy), only 14 percent of assistant professors take modified duties and 12 percent stop their tenure clock.
Dr. Block at Irvine, for one, says she dares not extend her tenure clock, a decision that is made at the end of the probationary period in the University of California system. "Everyone said it's career suicide -- senior faculty, chairs, administrators," says Dr. Block, who is entering the fourth year of her tenure clock and is expecting her second child. "From what I've seen, everyone who's taken it is expected to do more." After giving birth the first time, Dr. Block took paid parental leave and medical leave, missing two quarters and then "working ridiculously hard," she says. "I felt I had to prove that having a child didn't negatively impact on my academic work."
Belinda Davis, a history professor at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., extended her tenure clock by a year to get her monograph on World War I Berlin into proofs in time for her 1999 tenure review. But according to two professors on her tenure committee, a senior colleague wondered aloud why she had produced only a single book and a handful of articles -- what would have been expected of an assistant professor on a normal tenure clock -- when she had had an additional year to do more because of her maternity. The committee recommended against tenure. 
While the confidentiality of the proceedings and the murky dynamics of personnel decisions preclude knowing exactly why someone is denied tenure, Dr. Davis is convinced it was the lengthened clock.
"There seems to have been an assumption," she says, "that because I had this so-called extra time I was supposed to have produced more research than what was expected for a normal tenure case." 
Even when denied tenure, making a case for discrimination is difficult. And though amendments to the Civil Rights Act preclude discrimination based on pregnancy, a 1995 ruling established a precedent for considering absence in the tenure decision. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, covering New York, Connecticut and Vermont, ruled against a biology professor who had been denied tenure because, she contended, she had put her academic career on hold to raise a family. Although the case turned on a technical question, the court also commented on family leave. "A policy may discriminate," the decision reads, "between those employees who take off long periods of time in order to raise children and those who either do not have children or are able to raise them without an appreciable career interruption. That is not inherently sex specific." 
Like Dr. Bowie, Dr. Davis appealed on procedural grounds. The department reviewed her case, including the consideration of her extra year. Dr. Davis was awarded tenure the following year. 
The flexibility of the academic schedule can itself be a double bind for new parents. The hours may be flexible, but there are only 24 of them in a day, and the work has no limits for someone trying to earn tenure. A 1999 faculty survey at the University of Michigan found that the average academic worked more than 57 hours a week, tenure-track professors work longer and women work even more hours, devoting additional time to committees and meeting with students. 
"To get half as far, a woman will work twice as long," says Joan Williams, a legal scholar at American University. Which is fine as long as a woman's time is unconstrained, she says, but throw a baby into the mix "and that strategy stops working." Ms. Williams waited until she was assured tenure to start a family. She spent most of two years trying to get pregnant, including a course of fertility treatments, before resigning herself to the lengthening odds and placing her name on adoption lists. Finally, she conceived.
"It's set up as a zero-sum game," she says. "Some women get to have children, but they pay the price of career marginalization, others get to have a career, but they sacrifice motherhood. Men don't pay either price." 
Rather than thinking in terms of choices, Ms. Williams suggests that universities ask themselves, "How might we set up an academic workplace around the heroic assumption that the worker will have kids and raise them, and not farm out the care to someone else?" 
"Young women feel entitled to be here," she says. "They look at what's going on and say, 'This is outrageous."' Until parenting becomes part of work culture, she says, "women are not going to achieve anything approaching equality."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section on Sunday about the difficulty of seeking tenure while rearing children misspelled the surname of a researcher with the American Association of University Women who cited the notion of collegiality as a criterion for tenure decisions. She is Pamela Haag, not Haig.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Justine, 4, with her mother, Marcia Inhorn, whose dedication to academics was questioned at her Emory tenure review. (Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times); Can tenure-track women have it all? Sharon Block, a history professor at the University of California at Irvine, worked "ridiculously hard" after having her son, Casey, now 2. (Jill Connelly for The New York Times); Katherine Bowie was dropped from Wisconsin's tenure track while on leave caring for her firstborn son. She was reinstated with help from a vice chancellor. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)er 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TENURE; FAMILY LEAVES; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

PERSON: COHEN, HAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



92 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 4115 words

HEADLINE: Tests Are Not Just for Kids 

BYLINE:  By Kate Zernike; Kate Zernike is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
One side delivers its demands like a ruler rapping the knuckles: Standards! Accountability! Results! The other fears teaching to the test. Students are not widgets, the argument goes; the artistry of teaching cannot be summed up by a score. States mandate, teachers revolt. Eager competitors stand ready to prove they can do things better.
 Sound familiar? To a nation torn by debates about testing, it might. This time, however, the battleground is not elementary and secondary schools but colleges and universities. 
 For years, higher education was considered immune from the problems plaguing the lower levels of American education. It was a given good, worth every tax dollar, student loan and second mortgage it took to pay for it. Yet with the federal government now mandating a ladder of tests from elementary through high school, the question in K-12 is no longer whether to test but how to test. The shift in that debate has produced a new question: why not higher education, too? 
The nation's colleges and universities, beset by concerns about inflating costs and inflating grades, find themselves hard pressed to resist.
Democratic legislators and the Bush administration alike have publicly proposed that next year's reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, which governs how colleges and universities get federal money, be modeled on the recent legislation requiring elementary and secondary schools to test students and prove their progress. 
Some public universities, including those in Virginia and Utah, are starting to phase in assessments required by the state; this fall, the State University of New York is beginning a major initiative at each of its 64 campuses. States like Missouri and Tennessee dangle financial incentives at campuses where students score well. And some states have added teeth: in South Dakota, for example, students must pass exams to progress to junior year.
Proponents of the liberal arts -- its popularity waning, its English and semiotics majors the butt of light-bulb jokes -- want to prove that their brand of education produces students with marketable skills, too. This coming academic year, 40 to 50 colleges and universities will participate in a study to evaluate their liberal arts instruction, testing students over time to see how well they learn to write and think and analyze. 
Whether pushed by educators or legislators, the efforts are motivated by a sense that higher education has been gliding too much on reputation. Higher education now speaks of its own achievement gap -- not, as in lower education, a gap between scores of black and white children but between what colleges say students are learning and what they actually are. It is no longer enough for a university to say that it accepts only students with high SAT scores; those scores say nothing about what students learn once they're in.
"The real reason we don't test is, we would rather not know," said Frank Newman, a former president of the Education Commission of the States who, as head of the Futures Project at Brown University, promotes accountability in higher education.
"We have a rhetoric about what we do," he said. "That rhetoric is: when you come to our institution you get a great liberal education, you're going to learn to think, you're going to learn about the life of the mind, you're going to learn the great traditions of Western thought. If we start measuring, we will start finding out that you didn't learn how to think, you didn't learn about the great traditions of Western thought. Then we have a nasty little problem on our hands. If we find out that those students can't write well, who do we turn to?"
The focus on accountability reflects the many new demands on higher education -- from students, from legislators, from an increasingly competitive education market. But even more, it reflects a fundamental shift in answering the simple question: what is college for?
Traditionally, college was seen as an experience as much as anything, a chance for self-discovery, broadening the mind, socialization -- at best, an encounter with different kinds of people and ideas, at worst a kind of day care for big kids. But as the college population has shifted -- 18- to 24-year-olds now make up only a quarter of all degree-seeking undergraduates -- the typical college student is focused more on learning practical skills. With these students shaping the market, educators increasingly talk about college as a product -- like pimple cream or fertilizer, something to be judged effective or not.
Not everyone, of course, thinks this is a good thing. But having watched the debate over testing in elementary and secondary education, even critics agree that some form of assessment is on campus to stay. The trick, by all accounts, is to take what K-12 has done and improve on it.
As it was in lower education, the push is coming in part from business leaders, who have grown louder in their worries about how well college graduates are prepared for the world of work.
In 1999, a report by the Business-Higher Education Forum condemned graduates for lack of skills in problem solving, time management, analytical thinking and basic writing and speaking, calling for restructuring curriculum and teaching. The problems might not be as dire as those in lower education, but still, students were not prepared for the jobs employers needed to fill. Johnny could read, but analyze an annual report or write one? Like, no way. More and more companies are deciding that if they want skilled workers, they will have to train them themselves; the Department of Labor estimates that so-called corporate universities will outnumber traditional ones by 2010. 
Interest in assessing college performance actually began in the 1980's, around the time politicians and a raft of reports, including the damning "A Nation at Risk," were calling for more accountability in elementary and secondary schools. In 1990, when the National Educational Goals Panel set its agenda for the nation's students, it included objectives for higher education. The Department of Education began planning a college version of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, which tests a sampling of elementary and secondary school students across the country. It also called for state review boards to assess student progress at all colleges and universities, public and private, that received federal funds.
But higher education lobbying groups revolted, arguing that the federal intrusion was a violation of academic freedom, and both efforts faltered. New Jersey went so far as to get the faculty at its public colleges and universities to adopt a set of common standards and tests to measure them -- only to abandon the effort for lack of money and political will. A decade later, however, lower education is providing a powerful example, making it harder to object this time around.
"The same legislators who say, 'We fixed K-12 this way,' say, 'We can fix higher ed this way,"' said Peter Ewell, who has done perhaps the most extensive study of assessment efforts as a researcher at the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems. 
"Even the champions of higher education in the legislatures are very much in favor of some kind of testing," Mr. Ewell said. "They need some ammunition, because everybody else who wants money is coming in with data -- on roads, on hospitals, on criminal justice. It's in the air in a way that can't be ducked."
Since higher education is not a state requirement like elementary and secondary school, it's hard to make the case for a state obligation to "leave no child behind." But a college education is increasingly seen as an essential credential for the workplace. And since 80 percent of the nation's undergraduates now attend public institutions, it is easier for legislators to argue that higher education is in the public good, and therefore something to be regulated.
Changing demographics, too, have increased pressure for accountability. Older students tend to be more discriminating customers and to want courses tailored to their field. "When I was 18 years old and going to college, I was concerned about where the next beer party was, not what I was learning," said Laura Palmer Noone, president of the University of Phoenix, which accepts students only 23 years old and up. "I would not have called the dean and complained if a faculty member let me out of class early. Our students are doing that. They view this as their time, their money, their experience."
Phoenix, which has taken advantage of the aging college population to become the nation's largest private university, with 125,000 students at locations across the country, spells out a set of "core competencies" for students in each major. At the end of the program, they are given standardized tests to evaluate whether they learned what was advertised. The university compares its results to nationally normed tests -- for example, the Graduate Management Admission Test -- and asks students at other universities to take both sets of tests to judge their reliability. "Obviously, we want to make sure we are teaching students and that they're learning the right things," Ms. Noone said. But the tests also quiet the doubters who say that Phoenix, a profit-making institution, is simply looking to make a buck. "If we can demonstrate that students are learning the equivalent, or in most cases, more than students at other institutions, that answers our critics."
Liberal arts colleges, meanwhile, are competing for the shrinking pool of traditional college students that has been their primary market. With higher education seen more as a job credential, pure liberal arts has become something of a dying breed: only about 3 percent of all undergraduates are enrolled in liberal arts colleges. Testing offers a new way to compete.
"We talk about the virtues and values of a higher education, but we don't have much data to show for it," said Richard H. Hersh, president of Trinity College in Hartford. "We're not going to change perceptions by more rhetoric." Dr. Hersh, a former president of Hobart and William Smith Colleges, has been one of the country's biggest champions of liberal arts and is now one of its biggest champions of assessment. He is a chief proponent of the Value Added Assessment Initiative, a project that aims to evaluate how much students learn in the liberal arts over the course of their college education.
A value-added test looks at the difference between what students know when they arrive and what they know when they leave, providing a measure of what the school did or did not teach. 
As part of the initiative, 15 colleges and universities across the country participated in a trial round of tests this spring. A four-year study will begin this coming school year at more than 40 institutions, testing students freshman through senior year. The tests are the same across the campuses, making them technically standardized, but they are not multiple choice. Rather, students are presented with a package of information -- data tables, newspaper articles, reports -- on different subjects and asked to write essays, answer questions and plot information on graphs. The goal is to evaluate the kinds of analytical skills that liberal arts programs claim to teach and that employers say they are seeking. 
"If you put tests in play, then people are going to teach to the test," said Roger Benjamin, who developed the project with Dr. Hersh as head of the RAND Corporation's Council for Aid to Education. "But if you have the appropriate kind of tests, we think that's not a problem."
Dr. Hersh points out that outsiders already try to quantify the quality of a college education -- in particular, the U.S. News & World Report's "Best Colleges" rankings. But the magazine looks at factors like how much money the schools spend per student and what percentage is accepted -- factors that are easy to manipulate in the hopes of getting a better score. Though intended to help improve instruction, Dr. Hersh said, value-added results could also be used to create a new set of rankings based on teaching and learning. "Better that we do it, instead of some silly magazine," he said.
Assessment in higher education is still a developing concept, and the word means different things to different people, which makes it hard to compare results. Nowhere is this more evident than in the range of policies from state to state. 
According to "Measuring Up 2000," a survey by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, eight public university systems are in the process of developing some kind of assessment. Most leave it to each campus to choose its own assessment tool. Some use student surveys, some count the number of books in the library and some give tests. This summer, proposals are being approved from each SUNY campus on how it will evaluate learning in 10 subjects -- from a standardized math test at the Oswego campus to a special essay question on the final exam in western civilization, at Geneseo. 
Only six states -- Arkansas, Florida, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Georgia -- have the kinds of tests that allow cross-campus comparisons. But even then variations prevent a national perspective: Texas and Florida test basic skills, the kind most people would expect of high school graduates. South Dakota, on the other hand, measures freshmen, sophomores and seniors to evaluate what they learn over time.
The variations reflect the immense variety in the institutions involved. It is easier to settle on one test for all elementary and secondary schools, because they generally share a uniform mission and serve a uniform population. But there are different expectations for a community college than for the state's flagship university.
"Each of our institutions serves different missions, and naturally different levels of students," said Phyllis Palmiero, executive director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, which is phasing in a requirement that all public institutions assess students in six competencies, beginning this past academic year with technological literacy and writing. "What is competent is defined by each institution, so that now you have publicly articulated what it means to be a graduate of this institution," Ms. Palmiero said. "Then each institution devises a way to assess those competencies."
George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., used a standardized commercial exam to measure technological proficiency while the University of Virginia devised its own test on skills like Internet research and Palm Pilot use. "This test represents what a computer-literate person who is a college graduate ought to know to be able to function in today's society," said W. Edmund Moomaw, executive director of institutional assessment at the University of Virginia. "It's important for universities today to be more clear about what they want their students to be able to do. 
"At U.V.A.," he added, "they're smart when they enter and smart when they graduate. But there was anecdotal evidence that some graduates at some universities were not as competent as they should be. Also, education is No. 1 in most state budgets in expenditure, so the government wants to know what's happening with the money as we spend more and more of it."
The state council has posted results on its Web site in the kind of report card that K-12 schools use. "Yes, a degree is a statement of achievement, but what does it really stand for?" said G. Paul Nardo, a council spokesman. "We're trying to give meaning to that degree. We're hoping that by defining it, it will get better."
Whatever the approach, a consensus exists on one point: assessment in higher education will never look the way it does in K-12, with its emphasis on high-stakes tests required for graduation or grade promotion. Value-added tests, for one, are intended to judge how well the colleges are teaching, not to pass or fail students.
In lower education, assessment starts by establishing standards for what students must know to graduate -- literary works or terms, historical events, basic math, grammar and composition -- and then tests to see whether they have learned them. Colleges are much more diverse and more specialized, so it is far more difficult to agree on what the standards should be.
"There is no department of critical thinking," said Mr. Ewell of the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems. "Getting a social scientist and a historian and a physicist to agree on what critical thinking means for a sophomore is tougher than it looks. It's much tougher than getting a bunch of high school English teachers to say what good writing should look like."
There are other hurdles. Proponents fear that because value-added tests don't produce individual grades, students will not take them seriously, making the results invalid or even useless. 
Others worry about the misuse of tests. "Accountability is usually a code word for blame," said Jane V. Wellman, senior associate at the Institute for Higher Education Policy in Washington. "These tests can be pretty blunt instruments." It is too tempting, she said, for states that want to link results to state money to use test results as the only measure of quality, ignoring the complexities of the different institutions. That could punish community colleges, which generally accept any student who applies, and reward big research institutions, whose students arrive at a higher level. "The poorly financed public institution may be doing a better job than Harvard," Ms. Wellman said. 
Michael S. McPherson, president of Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn., fears that the tests promise too much. They might offer some hint as to which professor or school does better, but it is hard to say why, and the danger is in grasping at easy answers. "If the measures become important guides, they will lead schools to overemphasize the measured at the expense of the immeasurable," he wrote in a special issue of Peer Review, the journal of the Association of American Colleges and Universities, devoted to the debate over value-added testing. "If it turns out that improvement in the speed with which one can assemble a Lego robot is a reliable indicator of value added, and if that measure becomes a significant factor in college choice, you can expect the sales of Lego kits to universities to skyrocket." Still, Dr. McPherson supports the idea of measuring the quality of learning. And most everyone points out that the arguments against assessment in higher education are the same arguments that were initially made against assessment in lower education -- and that now schools test students in almost every grade above the third. 
"If higher education doesn't do this itself, someone from the outside will," Dr. Hersh said. "I'm not saying we can measure everything we'd like to. I'm not sure everything worth teaching is measurable. But if we're going to take seriously the language in our catalogs about higher learning, why don't we at least try to see if that's what we're doing?"

What Should You Get Out of College?

Interviews by Julie Flaherty

Richard C. Levin
President, Yale University
"We hope our students emerge with, obviously, the capacity to read and think about the world, to do that with clarity, to express themselves with clarity. But most of all to have acute critical intelligence, to be able to think critically about issues, to analyze them, to come up with their own conclusions under any circumstances."

Nancy Cantor
Chancellor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
"For students to be leaders in this complex world they need to be able to work with a diverse group of people. They have to be able to handle challenges and novelties that come up. They need to understand the context in which they live and the differences around the world. There isn't a pat answer anymore to this world, so the best we can do for students is have them ask the right questions."

Lee C. Bollinger
President, Columbia University
"An undergraduate education is a time to explore the great thinking that has occurred over time about subjects that endure. The university is about being able to move intellectually within a whole array of views. It is enormously
difficult and requires moving outside your own little way of seeing the world. It's actually a quite frightening experience. The world will always be for you a more difficult and complicated place than perhaps you would like it to be." 

Leon Botstein
President, Bard College
"The primary skills should be analytical skills of interpretation and inquiry. In other words, know how to frame a question. How do you evaluate the safety record of an airline? How do you evaluate the risk when you smoke? The ability to understand the debate about economics, about Social Security or prescription drugs -- any issues you like. How does one distinguish truth from fiction, demagoguery from serious argument? In this is also the capacity for intelligent empathy, the ability to understand the other side even when you may not share it. You should not be dependent on the sources of information, either provided by the government or by the media, but have an independent capacity to ask questions and evaluate answers.
"A college education has to engender a lifelong habit of curiosity, as opposed to becoming more convinced that you are an authority. It has to provide the capacity to take deep enjoyment in aspects of human expression that are not commercial -- literature that is not blockbuster, theater that is not moneymaking. 
"Finally, and terribly important, is that students develop a sense of value that is beyond material gain, beyond wealth and fame and power. It is about the way you conduct your life both as a private individual and as a citizen."

What Do Employers Want?

Mimi Collins
Spokeswoman, National Association of Colleges and Employers
"Employers very consistently cite good communication skills as important, both verbal and written. Honesty and integrity are second, teamwork skills are third, interpersonal skills fourth and strong work ethic fifth. Employers are looking for people who can work together, which is one reason communication is the top skill, year in and year out. They look for all the getting-along skills.
"One of the things that colleges do emphasize is helping students get internships where they can get some going-to-work skills, and that plays into what employers value."

Thomas M. Thivierge
Director of talent acquisition, General Motors
"We do look for ability to learn, because most students don't leave college with the ability to do the jobs initially. They need to show initiative, decision making, even though they may have not made a lot of decisions in their lives. Then we try to measure their results orientation. We want to get a sense of, if given a project, how do you get it done. Teamwork is very influential. This one is really abstract: we call it motivational fit. Are you tenacious? Can you overcome barriers? In large companies, that's important. Diversity comes into that: are you able to work in a diverse environment?
There are some hard skills we look for, too. We're making CAD/CAM donations at the universities to make sure students use that technology. We found that students weren't using it enough. 
"A lot of students go to college and don't know what they want to be when they grow up. What we're asking is for them to make a choice. Do I want to build products? Do I want to be in information technology? If you want to work in finance, you better be getting a degree in accounting. We don't hire generalists right at the start. Once you've developed that core functional expertise, we'll pay for you to get broadening education. But at first you've got to know what your focus area is."

Sharman Mailloux Sosa
Senior technical recruiter, Microsoft
"We look for students who are strategic thinkers, who can think about the bigger picture, think about long-term challenges. We want people who can jump into ambiguous problem spaces and still be very successful, who don't necessarily need to have a manual to assess a situation, people who can address a problem even when there is not a lot of clarity in it."

Phyllis PalMiero
Executive director, State Council of Higher Education for Virginia
"You have to be pretty portable now. The interest has been basic skills. Every graduate should have these basic competencies: be able to write well, have some level of technologic literacy, have the ability to perform qualitative analysis, be scientifically literate, have strong oral communication, as well as strong critical thinking skills."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The state of Virginia is requiring assessment of student learning. Brian Smith crams at University of Virginia. (Photographs by Stephanie Klein-Davis for The New York Times); George Mason University tested students on their technological know-how this spring. A systemwide report card is posted online. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)t University of Virginia. (Photographs by Stephanie Klein-Davis for The New York Times); George Mason University tested students on their technological know-how this spring. A systemwide

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TESTS AND TESTING 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%)

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



93 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Is the Chief Ready For His Close-Up?

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
THE television cameras had barely started rolling when Sally Lee got that sinking feeling -- literally.
 Ms. Lee, the editor in chief of Parents magazine, was standing atop a sand dune that had been trucked in to the outdoor lot of NBC's "Today" program in May for a live interview about children's swimsuits. But as Katie Couric pelted her with questions, Ms. Lee felt her feet sinking. First, her heels disappeared as she smiled weakly at Ms. Couric, who stood next to her on solid ground. Then her ankles were gone. Finally, she said, "I was up to my knees and still trying gamely to continue the conversation." 
 Fortunately, the five-minute segment ended before the dune could swallow her, but Ms. Lee vowed to be better prepared for future television interviews, right down to planning what shoes to wear.
Hers was a minor embarrassment compared with the bloopers involving some executives as television appearances become a bigger part of their job descriptions.
"Blame it on the 24/7 news environment," said Lee Duffey, president of Duffey Communications, a public relations firm in Atlanta that provides media training to executives. "Technology has made around-the-clock news a reality, and most executives, especially C.E.O.'s, can't escape the spotlight."
Nor should they want to. In the post-Enron world, public relations experts say, TV appearances are crucial for bolstering consumer and shareholder confidence. "Corporate stakeholders need to be reassured, and television can deliver mass exposure," said Sheri Baer, the broadcast director at the Hoffman Agency in San Jose, Calif., which provides media training to top executives.
But television can be a scary prospect -- terrifying, even -- for some executives, who fear that they will look ridiculous or, worse, say something that could get their companies in trouble. As a result, some go to great lengths to prepare, sometimes by taking public speaking courses or hiring media trainers.
At Mr. Duffey's firm, requests for such coaching have increased sharply. "Media training used to be a specialty service that only a few of our really high-level C.E.O. clients were interested in," he said. "But in the past year or so, every single one of our clients has asked for it."
Janette Mandell, a group manager for Greenough Communications, a public relations agency in Boston that represents technology clients, estimated that 40 percent of its new business in the last year had come from business leaders seeking media coaching. Many have made mistakes in front of the camera, she says, and want to avoid repeating them.
Consider Neal Creighton, the chief executive of GeoTrust, an information security company in Wellesley Hills, Mass., that has been bombarded with calls from journalists since Sept. 11. In late September, he was interviewed for an ABC news program and, wanting to appear solemn, refrained from smiling or gesturing. Alas, he lamented, "I looked like a corpse; I was Dead Man Talking."
Mr. Creighton signed up for a media training course with a firm that put him through a battery of mock interviews. His coach helped him become more animated by instructing him to nod his head and make eye contact with viewers. As a result, he said, he looked much more lively on a spot shown recently on a Delta Air Lines in-flight program.
Michael Linton, the former chief executive of the American operations of Adecco of Switzerland, a temporary staffing agency, needed guidance when CNBC asked him to appear on a program last month to talk about unemployment. Mr. Linton doesn't own a television set and knew about CNBC only vaguely. As panic set in, he hired media coaches to pose likely questions.
"The coaches actually asked harder questions than the real interviewer did," Mr. Linton said. He learned not to agree with everything the interviewers said. "When I'm under pressure, my tendency is to just smile and go along with the party line," he said. But his coaches made him stop and think about the questions first. In the CNBC interview, he said, he was able to question some of the reporter's assumptions about unemployment statistics.
Such practice sessions can also keep executives from putting their feet in their mouths. Ms. Mandell recalls a mock session in which a software chief executive lost control after she said her "sources" had told her he was planning to sell the company. "His eyes grew wide and he leapt out of his seat and barked, 'Who told you that!' " she said. "When the whole room erupted in laughter, he knew he'd made a big mistake." The lesson, of course, is to keep calm.
She advises clients to develop 30-second sound bites detailing the information they want to get across, to help them refrain from babbling or divulging information they shouldn't.
Sometimes, trainers tag along on real interviews to make sure that nothing goes wrong. Mr. Duffey recalls one occasion when the chief of a health care company began sweating profusely under the lights.
"The interviewer was with a news magazine," Mr. Duffey said, "and his favorite tactic was to wait until his subject got really sweaty and then move in with a really tough question, so that the subject would look really panicked." But Mr. Duffey saved the day by interrupting the interview to request a break for his client to change into a fresh shirt.
NOT everyone is a fan of executive coaches. "Media coaches teach you to watch every word you say," said Vivek Wadhwa, chief of Relativity Technologies, a software company in Cary, N.C., who previously took a small army of public relations consultants on TV interviews. No more. "Everything I said was scripted and few people ended up quoting me," he recalled.
Now, Mr. Wadhwa says, he blurts out the first thing that comes into his mind -- a risky strategy, perhaps, but one that he says has paid off with positive coverage. Although he has occasionally angered viewers, he says he doesn't care. "I'm more interested in being myself and communicating a message about my company," he said. "If I tick off some people along the way, so be it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neal Creighton, chief of GeoTrust, took a media training course after a television appearance that he characterized as "Dead Man Talking." (Michael Dwyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (67%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TELEVISION; PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); HOFFMAN AGENCY (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (73%) LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



94 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
The Fed'sEvolving Comfort Zone

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DURING the last two decades, the Federal Reserve often seemed to adopt a policy known as "opportunistic disinflation," a fancy way of saying the central bank should not necessarily attack inflation during periods of economic expansion.
 Instead, the Fed would permit the inflation rate to remain more or less steady while the economy was growing briskly, and wait for a recession or slowdown to bring inflation down. Then, when the economy started to recover, the Fed would raise interest rates to cap inflation at a lower level than in the previous business cycle, thereby ratcheting down inflation step by step, as the economy went through its inevitable ups and downs. 
 The approach was not always followed, and under Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman since 1987, the central bank has looked with disdain on rules and academic theories and favored pragmatic, even seat-of-the-pants policy making. 
Still, opportunistic disinflation was seen by some Fed economists and many outside analysts as the best way to describe the central bank's basic operating philosophy in an era when achieving price stability was a primary goal in monetary policy.
But the Fed has pretty much achieved price stability. And in this time of post-bubble jitters, excess capacity and falling asset prices, inflation suddenly seems less of a threat, or at least a more easily managed one, than deflation.
"It's the end of an era," said Jim Glassman, an economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "The long-run goal is no longer to push inflation lower."
As a result, opportunistic disinflation has become outmoded, if not irrelevant. So economists inside and outside the Fed are trying to develop new policy models that would help guide the central bank as it confronts a faltering recovery, little upward pressure on prices and concern about the kind of deflationary spiral that has afflicted Japan.
"We've never had to worry about this before," said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor. "But now that we're at price stability, we're going to face it routinely. We're going to have to decide whether or not to behave in some especially vigorous way to insure against deflation."
The broad outlines of the Fed's evolving new approach are already emerging. For one thing, Mr. Greenspan appears willing to be extraordinarily patient about raising official interest rates from their current, extremely low levels. The Fed's benchmark federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks stands at 1.75 percent, where it has been since December.
Economists do not expect the Fed to raise rates before year-end; if the stock market continues to tumble, the Fed's next move may even be to cut rates.
If inflation begins to show signs of revival, Mr. Greenspan knows from long experience that he can act quickly to snuff it out by raising rates. But because there are virtually no signs of inflation, he has signaled that he will not raise rates simply because they are low, but will wait for evidence that the economy has recovered fully from the recession last year.
Another characteristic of the post-inflation Fed is likely to be a willingness to act decisively to head off deflation.
The Fed has made extensive studies of Japan's mistakes in getting into its recessionary, deflationary swamp and has drawn one major conclusion: that it is best to cut interest rates quickly and aggressively if deflation looms, even if rates are already at very low levels, as they are now. 
OBVIOUSLY, it would be best if the Fed could avoid any situation in which it must shoot its remaining monetary ammunition to avert a crisis. On that score, there is a school of thought that the Fed needs to try to hold inflation at a level above what it might otherwise consider price stability, which in recent years has been around 2 percent, as measured by the Consumer Price Index.
Mr. Meyer said the Fed is on a "maintenance diet," trying to stay in a comfort zone between inflation and deflation. But, he said, it will be all but impossible to stay in that zone all the time, at least as it is currently defined, given the economy's vicissitudes.
The solution, Mr. Meyer said, is to set an inflation target that is high enough to build in a buffer, so that if the economy is suddenly hit by deflationary forces it will not sink into deflation. Better that, he said, than temporarily pushing inflation above a target that is set too low when a deflation threat comes along and then reining it back in again when the threat has passed.
"That would put you through a roller coaster," he said. "You want to save pre-emptive action for a truly compelling situation."

GRAPHIC: GraphChange in consumer prices from same quarter a year earlier. Graph shows the change in consumer prices from same quarter a year earlier since 2000. (Source: Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); DEFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



95 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2420 words

HEADLINE: A Tortoise, Many Hares And a Web of Convergence 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER and GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
MEL KARMAZIN says Thomas Middelhoff is an extraordinarily talented chief executive, as talented as any in the United States.
 But Mr. Karmazin, the no-frills New Yorker who is president of the media conglomerate Viacom, cultivates a very different style from Mr. Middelhoff, the big-thinking German who until last week ran the media conglomerate Bertelsmann. 
 In a commercial he commissioned for German television, Mr. Middelhoff appeared wearing a "Star Trek" uniform under the slogan, "We pursue big ideas -- no matter where they lead us." Mr. Karmazin showed up for a recent conference call with institutional investors in a T-shirt that said, "We will not do anything stupid." He says investors are clamoring for copies of it. 
The differences between Viacom and Bertelsmann run far deeper than slogans on T-shirts, of course, and they say a lot about why Viacom today is the world's most valuable media empire, while Bertelsmann jettisoned Mr. Middelhoff last week and is likely to ditch many of his imperial ambitions.
Viacom is the only global media conglomerate that never succumbed to the allure of the Internet. It has steadfastly resisted the defining "big idea" of the 21st-century media business: that the Internet will profoundly transform the way people consume information and entertainment, necessitating radical changes in the way companies distribute their movies, television shows, music and magazines.
It is not that Viacom rejects the importance of the Internet -- or even the notion that it is changing the habits of consumers, particularly young ones, in ways that will generate exciting new businesses.
But unlike Bertelsmann under Mr. Middelhoff, Vivendi Universal under Jean-Marie Messier or AOL Time Warner under Gerald M. Levin and Robert W. Pittman, Viacom did not bet its corporate ranch on convergence -- the marriage of old-line media assets with Internet-age technology.
At Viacom, the Internet functions largely as a brand extension -- a vehicle to enhance the company's existing properties, from Paramount Pictures and MTV to CBS and Blockbuster. 
Mr. Middelhoff, Mr. Messier and Mr. Pittman, the chief operating officer at AOL Time Warner, were all shown the door within three weeks of one another. So if career survival is any guide, Viacom's pragmatic approach appears to have been the right bet.
"Convergence may be the most expensive word in history, said David Geffen, the prolific entrepreneur who is co-founder of DreamWorks, the movie studio, with Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg. "It has cost people billions."
Like most media moguls, Mr. Geffen does not dispute the contention that digital technology is blurring the boundaries between the television, the PC and the telephone. But a huge number of multimillion-dollar investments has shown that extracting a profit from this convergence is extraordinarily difficult, particularly when companies try to meld assets from disparate industries -- say, cellular phones with Hollywood entertainment.
THE upheavals at AOL Time Warner, Bertelsmann and Vivendi stemmed in part from the inability of their top executives to cope with the unwieldy goliaths they had created. "Nobody has an expertise that runs across every single medium," Mr. Geffen said. 
But, he added: "It is still early. Maybe a generation from now, it will be a different story."
Viacom is not the only company that has steered a conservative course. Neither the Walt Disney Company nor Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation made bets on cyberspace that altered the direction of their companies. But of all the global players, Viacom has an Internet strategy most firmly rooted in the here and now.
MTV.com, the Web site for Viacom's ubiquitous music video channel, offers surfers the chance to listen to music, watch streaming video or buy tickets for concerts by bands like the Red Hot Chili Peppers. Yet the site, among the most heavily visited on the Web, is at heart an electronic billboard for MTV.
"Our strategy is tied into these strong brands, and in having a platform to cross-promote them," Mr. Karmazin said.
That is the vocabulary of an advertising salesman, which Mr. Karmazin is, and it is worlds away from the high-flown phrases of Internet evangelists. Mr. Levin, the former chief executive of AOL Time Warner and architect of the 2001 merger that created it, once likened the Net to the ancient library at Alexandria -- enormous, democratic and free.
Over the last three years, Mr. Karmazin said, he has read more than 100 business plans for Internet start-ups seeking to be acquired by Viacom. Some were more than start-ups: Sumner M. Redstone, Viacom's chairman, turned away Mr. Pittman when he proposed in mid-1999 that Viacom buy America Online.
In almost all cases, neither Mr. Karmazin nor Mr. Redstone was able to justify the high price of the start-ups, based on their projected long-term contribution to Viacom's sales and profits.
"These things are de minimus to a company of our size," Mr. Karmazin said. "They are not transforming. So you sit there and you say to yourself, 'Why in the world would I pay an exorbitant price when the thing is only going to be a small part of my company in five years?' "
In Mr. Middelhoff's four years atop Bertelsmann, his forays into the Internet were all about transformation. He fervently believed that the Web was reinventing the way people buy books and CD's, two of Bertelsmann's core products. After trying to buy Amazon.com, Mr. Middelhoff poured hundreds of millions of dollars into online stores like BOL.com and CDNow.com.
The losses piled up, and the ventures were eventually folded into Bertelsmann's traditional book and music clubs.
Mr. Middelhoff's most prominent Internet crusade -- if not the most costly -- was Napster, the online file-sharing service that vowed to revolutionize the distribution of recorded music. Napster was vilified by the major music companies as a pirate in pioneer's clothes, but he lent it $85 million and tried to turn it into a subscriber-based service.
Trouble is, Mr. Middelhoff could not persuade the other major music companies to withdraw their lawsuits against the service. Even as they were quietly putting together their own online ventures, AOL Time Warner, Vivendi and others effectively drove Napster into bankruptcy. Under Bertelsmann's cautious new bosses, its future looks dim.
Pioneers, the cliche goes, end up with arrows in their backs. Mr. Middelhoff's defenders said Napster could have leapfrogged ahead of an Internet wave that threatens to engulf the music business.
"Middelhoff was breathtaking in the leadership roles he took," said Porter Bibb, the managing director of Technology Partners, an investment advisory firm in New York. "If he had brought the other music executives with him, he might have been able to turn the Internet into a viable distribution medium."
But current and former Bertelsmann executives said that in his fervor, Mr. Middelhoff misjudged the mood of the music industry, as well as the perceived threat that Napster posed to its business.
Even at Bertelsmann's music division, BMG, executives debated often and stridently the wisdom of the Napster investment. Most of the unit's top executives left soon after the investment was announced, though some say the exodus was initiated by Mr. Middelhoff as part of an overdue house-cleaning.
"Music is an ideal business to attack through the Internet," one former senior executive said. "But Napster implants the idea that content doesn't cost anything, and that is extremely dangerous."
Mr. Middelhoff did not respond to requests for an interview.
If he was a mogul ahead of his time, Mr. Messier and Vivendi, a French water company founded during the reign of Napoleon III, seemed even more divorced from reality. 
Mr. Middelhoff's Internet ventures, though risky, were driven by the desire to expand Bertelsmann's existing businesses. Mr. Messier, an investment banker with no experience in media, used convergence as a rationale to cobble together businesses with little obvious connection.
"Some of these deals were marriages of convenience, which were justified as marriages of convergence," said Michael J. Wolf, the head of the media practice at McKinsey & Company.
Beaming music and video, through a wireless Internet connection, to a customer's cellular phone was a pet project of Mr. Messier's. He made it the cornerstone of his pitch for Vivendi's $34 billion acquisition of Seagram Ltd., which owned the Universal film studio and music company.
THE project seemed far-fetched from the start. Vivendi owns 44 percent of Cegetel, a long-distance provider that, in turn, owns a majority of France's No. 2 cellular company, SFR. Before Vivendi acquired Seagram, it teamed up with Vodafone, the British cellular giant, to create an Internet service, known as Vizzavi, which claimed a potential market of 80 million people.
Mr. Messier's idea -- which in these sober times seems almost quaint in its Dick Tracy futurism -- was to transmit clips of Universal's movies and songs to the cellular phones of these customers.
"The overall vision is really to be the media group and the content group which gets the best usage of direct customer relationships on a global and multiplatform basis," Mr. Messier said in an interview last year, during the brief heyday of his empire-building.
Unfortunately for Mr. Messier, two of his platforms -- telecommunications and the Internet -- collapsed as industries. And the Seagram purchase left Vivendi staggering under $18 billion in debt.
Last month, with Vivendi's stock price cratering and its loan covenants near default, Vivendi's board replaced Mr. Messier with a retired pharmaceutical executive, Jean-Rene Fourtou. He is expected to disassemble much of what his predecessor built, starting with Vizzavi.
Mr. Messier's defenders say he was on the right track in seeing the potential for wireless Internet access. But even the Japanese cellular provider NTT DoCoMo, which pioneered multipurpose pocket phones with its I-mode service, has had trouble selling the third generation of these gadgets.
Mr. Redstone of Viacom said the mistake that some media companies made was to overestimate how quickly new technologies -- even one as potent as the Internet -- would alter people's habits.
"Behavioral patterns don't change that easily," he said. "Americans are passive. They will continue to write checks and shop at stores," he added, referring to the plans of AOL Time Warner for electronic shopping.
Mr. Redstone built one of the country's greatest fortunes on the unchanging habits of consumers. He continued to own movie theaters long after experts predicted that they would be put out of business by rented videocassettes. He bought control of Blockbuster Entertainment at a time when industry forecasters said the home video market would be wiped out by interactive television.
Viacom's stock has been hurt by the downturn in advertising revenue, on which MTV, Nickelodeon, CBS and its other businesses are heavily dependent. But it has not suffered nearly as much as its rivals.
With a market capitalization of $67.2 billion, Viacom is worth four times as much as Vivendi, three times as much as the News Corporation and nearly twice as much as the Walt Disney Company. It is worth one-third more than AOL Time Warner, though it is more than half the size in revenue.
Analysts attribute much of Viacom's current favor on Wall Street to the fact that it avoided the costly Internet missteps of other media companies. As important, it has so far avoided the management upheaval that often accompanies mergers of old- and new-media companies.
"Viacom does a great job of cross-promotion," Mr. Bibb said. "Karmazin has got Dan Rather doing spots for '60 Minutes II' on 1010 WINS," one of two news radio stations in New York owned by Viacom.
Contrast that to AOL Time Warner, where Mr. Pittman was unable to persuade the company's divisions to cooperate in selling basic advertising packages to clients. Time Warner always had a tendency toward warring fiefs, but that tendency was aggravated by resentment on the part of Time Warner executives toward their new AOL colleagues, whom they viewed as arrogant.
"The fiefdoms at Time Warner are here to stay," said John Tinker, the head of research at Blaylock & Partners in New York. "That dreaded word 'synergy' is dead for at least a couple of years."
INTERNECINE rivalries also hurt Mr. Middelhoff at Bertelsmann. Founded in 1835 as a publisher of Lutheran hymnals, Bertelsmann, which is privately owned and based in Gutersloh, Germany, is so decentralized that the pay of senior executives is tied to the performance of their units, not the overall company.
Executives at the company said that in tandem with his push into the Internet, Mr. Middelhoff was trying to centralize control of Bertelsmann in his hands. When he announced the investment in Napster, for example, he did it without BMG's management.
Mr. Middelhoff also vowed to take Bertelsmann public by 2005. In the end, his ambitions collided with Bertelsmann's controlling shareholders, the family of Reinhard Mohn, who feared that their power would be eroded.
The ouster of Mr. Middelhoff and his counterparts has prompted much talk that the company will return to an old-media industry. That is misplaced, however, and some experts say, even a little dangerous.
Convergence -- whether defined as the melding of content and distribution or the fusing of traditional media properties with the Internet -- is already well under way.
Unless companies learn to harness digital technology and the Internet, experts say, they risk having the underlying economics of their businesses sabotaged by it. Viacom's go-slow approach might make sense for a film and TV company that is lubricated by advertising. It makes less sense for Vivendi and Bertelsmann, with vulnerable music companies.
Barry Diller has stood at the treacherous intersection of old and new media for a decade. Perhaps that is why he seems unruffled by the latest turmoil in the boardrooms of big media conglomerates.
"The underlying issue, of course, is executing what you have converged," said Mr. Diller, who runs USA Interactive and oversees Universal Pictures and the other American properties of Vivendi. Doing so "takes time and patience, and it takes not having the rug pulled out from under you prematurely," he added.
That is cold comfort for Messrs. Middelhoff, Messier and Pittman, three prophets of convergence whose words, for now at least, have fallen on deaf ears.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sumner M. Redstone, top left, and Mel Karmazin of Viacom have been cautious with the Internet. The company uses Web functions mostly as a brand extension for properties like MTV and shows like "The Osbournes," right. (James Estrin/The New York Times); (MTV)(pg. 11); (pg. 1) Chart: "Prudence Prevails at Viacom"Shares of Viacom have held their value far better than those of its peers, in part because its more cautious approach toward the Internet has not wasted resources. ViacomMARKET VALUE ON FRIDAY: $61.6 billion2001 REVENUE: $23.2 billionCHANGE IN STOCK PRICE SINCE ITS PEAK: - 53.2% AOL Time WarnerMARKET VALUE ON FRIDAY: 45.92001 REVENUE: 38.2CHANGE IN STOCK PRICE SINCE ITS PEAK: - 87.6 Walt Disney CompanyMARKET VALUE ON FRIDAY: 31.22001 REVENUE: 25.3CHANGE IN STOCK PRICE SINCE ITS PEAK: - 64.9 The News CorporationMARKET VALUE ON FRIDAY: 22.82001 REVENUE: 13.8CHANGE IN STOCK PRICE SINCE ITS PEAK: - 71.3 Vivendi UniversalMARKET VALUE ON FRIDAY: 15.72001 REVENUE: 51.4CHANGE IN STOCK PRICE SINCE ITS PEAK: - 89.5 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); BRANDING (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); MUSIC (64%) MEDIA; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (91%); BERTELSMANN AG (85%); VIVENDI (81%); AOL INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: VIACOM INC 

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (91%); VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%); AOL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

PERSON: THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (90%); SUMNER REDSTONE (59%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (57%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (56%) LANDLER, MARK; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



96 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Shame 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 

 BODY:
Watching the pathetic, mealy-mouthed response of President Bush and his State Department to Egypt's decision to sentence the leading Egyptian democracy advocate to seven years in prison leaves one wondering whether the whole Bush foreign policy team isn't just a big bunch of phonies. Shame on all of them.
 Since Sept. 11 all we've heard out of this Bush team is how illegitimate violence is as a tool of diplomacy or politics, and how critical it is to oust Saddam Hussein in order to bring democracy to the Arab world. Yet last week, when a kangaroo court in Egypt, apparently acting on orders from President Hosni Mubarak, sentenced an ill, 63-year-old Saad Eddin Ibrahim to seven years at "hard labor" for promoting democracy -- for promoting the peaceful alternative to fundamentalist violence -- the Bush-Cheney team sat on its hands. 
 The State Department, in a real profile in courage, said it was "deeply disappointed" by the conviction of Mr. Ibrahim, who holds a U.S. passport. "Disappointed"? I'm disappointed when the Baltimore Orioles lose. When an Egyptian president we give $2 billion a year to jails a pro-American democracy advocate, I'm "outraged" and expect America to do something about it.
I'm also frightened, because if there is no space in Egypt for democratic voices for change, then Egyptians will only be left with the mosque. If there is no room in Egypt for Saad Ibrahims, then we will only get more Mohamed Attas -- coming again to a theater near you.
Mr. Ibrahim's "crime" was that his institute at the American University in Cairo was helping to teach Egyptians how to register to vote, how to fill out a ballot and how to monitor elections. The Egyptian court accused him of embezzling funds from the European Union, which supported his efforts. The outraged E.U. said no such thing ever happened.
This monkey trial was really about an insecure, isolated Mr. Mubarak quashing any dissenters, and it is much more important than it looks -- because so many more people are watching than we think. The other day, I interviewed a leading Sri Lankan human rights activist, Radhika Coomaraswamy, director of the International Center for Ethnic Studies. We started out talking about Sri Lanka but ended up talking about Mr. Ibrahim, whom she knew, and America.
"What is the nonviolent alternative for expressing discontent and promoting change ?" she asked me. "It's democracy. When you remove any democratic alternative, the only route left in many countries for expressing discontent is religious fundamentalism. Saad is the alternative democratic voice, and if we don't protect it we're just inviting more violence."
This ties in with a larger concern that human rights activists share toward America today -- a concern that post-9/11 America is not interested anymore in law and order, just order, and it's not interested in peace and quiet, but just quiet. I am struck by how many Sri Lankans, who are as pro-American as they come, have made some version of this observation to me: America as an idea, as a source of optimism and as a beacon of liberty is critical to the world -- but you Americans seem to have forgotten that since 9/11. You've stopped talking about who you are, and are only talking now about who you're going to invade, oust or sanction.
These days, said Mrs. Coomaraswamy, "none of us in the human rights community would think of appealing to the U.S. for support for upholding a human rights case -- maybe to Canada, to Norway or to Sweden -- but not to the U.S. Before there were always three faces of America out in the world -- the face of the Peace Corps, the America that helps others, the face of multinationals and the face of American military power.
"My sense is that the balance has gone wrong lately and that the only face of America we see now is the one of military power, and it really frightens the world. . . . I understand that there is always a tension between security concerns and holding governments accountable for human rights. But if you focus on security alone and allow basic human rights violations in the name of security, then, well, as someone who grew up in America and went to law school there, I find that heartbreaking."
So do I. How about before we go trying to liberate a whole country -- Iraq -- we first liberate just one man, one good man, who is now sitting in an Egyptian jail for pursuing the very democratic ideals that we profess to stand for. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BASEBALL (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); RELIGION (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); ELECTION MONITORING (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (58%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SRI LANKA (93%); EUROPE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



97 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Real Politics; 
When Energy Comes From Russia, It's Also Power

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
BEHIND the decision facing President Bush on whether to make war on Iraq is a set of calculations that ought to be called the realpolitik of oil -- and Russia is at the center.
 Since Sept. 11, oil experts and politicians, including President Vladimir V. Putin, have been promoting Russia and its burgeoning energy sector as the strategic antidote to the threat of another oil shock. The big fears are of war in the Middle East or a move orchestrated against Western interests by Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf heavyweights in OPEC, as unlikely as that has seemed for a long time. Many oil traders say there is a $3 to $5 premium on Middle Eastern oil already, because of war jitters. 
 But Moscow has been engaged in a strategic migration to the West since Sept. 11 that buttresses the view of Russia as a critical partner to the West. And this is changing the psychology of both the marketplace and geopolitics. 
Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Putin would be impolitic enough to say he has been drawing up an insurance policy against allies -- the stable oil-producing kingdoms and sheikdoms that have abandoned the notion that oil is a weapon in global politics. 
But even if loyalty and alliance hold between Washington and its Persian Gulf friends, who can say what the effect would be if Saddam Hussein fired Scud missiles loaded with anthrax, mustard gas or some ghastly radiological substance onto the main Saudi oil loading terminal at Ras Tanura, causing panic and shutdown?
And since Sept. 11, there has been an additional, intangible element corroding Saudi-American relations -- something between uncertainty and mistrust over the heavy Saudi representation among Osama bin Laden's martyrs and the Saudi tolerance for the culture of jihad. The Saudis, for their part, resent the loss of American initiative to secure a Palestinian homeland, so evident under the first President Bush and during most of the Clinton years. Today, America and Saudi Arabia drink tea laced with the hemlock of unstated recriminations. "The psychological factor is there," an adviser to the royal family conceded.
In the world of realpolitik, public reassurances about stable oil supplies count only up to a point. Capabilities matter, just as they will in any war with Iraq, where President Bush will have to weigh the risks of going it alone, or nearly so.
Last fall, President Bush told his energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, to add 108 million barrels of oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. But that offers the American market just one layer of shock absorption.
"The first principle of energy security is diversification," said Daniel Yergin, the oil markets analyst and historian, and by that measure Russia suddenly figures in international energy markets. The post-Soviet sag in gross oil production is steadily being reversed; indeed, Russia overtook Saudi Arabia this spring by pumping 7.28 million barrels a day in March. In annual figures, Russian oil exports, which bottomed at 3.16 million barrels a day in 1994, are expected to reach 5 million a day this year or next.
"The Russian oil industry is growing at an amazing rate, and it is bringing in Western talent, technology and investment, but most of all it needs markets," said Sarah C. Carey, a Washington lawyer who is on the board of Russia's second-largest oil giant, Yukos, which wants to supply American refineries. By playing on the West's fear of disruption, Russia has found greater tolerance for its bully-boy tactics in the oil markets since Sept. 11; the only sound from the Saudis has been the gnashing of teeth. 
But here is the rub of the debate: Russia cannot supplant Saudi Arabia as the world's guarantor of stable oil supplies in a clutch. "They are at full production," the adviser to the Saudi royal family said, referring to Russia. "Everybody is at full production except Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi and Venezuela." And the lion's share of spare production remains a Saudi franchise.
"The Russians know that, everybody knows that, and what we say is, just don't push us into a corner," he said, referring to fear that Russia might try to seize Saudi markets with overzealous production. The implied threat is that Saudi Arabia would flood the market to drive prices down, as it has before. Since Saudi oil is the cheapest to produce (about $2 a barrel, compared with $12 to $15 a barrel for new production oil), the House of Saud can best ride out low prices. "We have the elasticity to go down and still make money," the official said. 
But Saudi Arabia's pre-eminence almost doesn't matter. Russia's surging oil industry and the growing exports from it and from the Caspian Sea region will add to the pool of non-OPEC production over the next decade. This, as Mr. Yergin points out, will make the global market more resistant to shock, particularly with Russia's new attitude toward the West in mind.
"A lot of things have come together now," Mr. Yergin said, not least that under Mr. Putin, Russia is firmly back on a pragmatic reform path. And while Saudi Arabia raised its oil output after Sept. 11 to insure calm markets, Russia has been changing policy in a larger way. It is merging Russian interests with European and Western security interests in the battle against terrorism, a strategic realignment that is deflating its old fears of NATO expansion and Western encirclement. Russian oil and gas giants are cleaning up their act, making them safer for Western investment, Mr. Yergin says.
And the latter-day version of the Great Game in Central Asia that so recently pitted Russia against Western encroachment suddenly looks more like a joint venture of shared interests. Russian oil companies are joining major Western ones in bringing Central Asia on line as a major oil producer. Russia wants to insure that a healthy portion of any new pipelines cross its land, but that is now less important because both Russia and the West are beginning to see the virtue of variety and collaboration in a world where demand will only go up with the growth of new economies. 
In Mr. Putin, Russia's new oil barons have a leader willing to press their interests. "Putin is a master of making more out of what he actually has," said James Richard, a co-author of an essay this spring in the journal Foreign Affairs that asserted that "the contest for energy dominance between the world's two largest oil exporters, Saudi Arabia and Russia," will have "fundamental consequences for the world's economy."
Those consequences don't have to hurt the competitors, other analysts point out. If war in Iraq disrupts world markets, Russia and Saudi Arabia will both mobilize their production to fill in -- even though Russia doesn't have Saudi Arabia's vast reserves or the built-in spare capacity.
Still, Russia wants new markets and will likely use its elbows to get them, so some testing of its strength against the Persian Gulf giants may be inevitable.
ONE advantage for Russia is that what it lacks in oil reserves it makes up for in natural gas; it already provides a quarter of Europe's gas. In oil, Russia doesn't like the Saudi argument that it should wait its turn and take new market share from the rising demand for oil coming out of Asia. That argument might have more success if the pragmatic Mr. Putin were in full control of Russia's oil giants and their aggressive marketing strategies. On most days, instead, he happily rides the tiger of Russian oil expansion, hoping among other things that growth in energy will spur the rest of the economy.
The Sept. 11 attacks brought Russia into the Western camp with a seat, though not membership, in NATO for debates on Western security. So Mr. Putin's stature for playing Russia's version of realpolitik has only been enhanced. The question is, How will he play it? The answer almost certainly is that he will play for national interest, whatever is best to rebuild Russia's economy and a strong Russian state anchored in both Europe and Asia.
This strategic partnership is based on mutual interest, the two-way street of any relationship. And just as the United States and Europe welcome the freedom of action they get from Russia's more muscular presence in the oil market, Mr. Putin welcomes new opportunities for Russia, above all that Russian interests should be taken into account on the big issues of war and commerce. 
SO it is more than interesting that Mr. Putin has positioned himself between America and each of the states Mr. Bush counts as the "axis of evil." He has parlayed with North Korea's Kim Jong-il to press the Western agenda of arms control, while selling to both Koreas the concept of a common market that would connect them with Europe via Russia's rails.
In Iran, he has pursued the Russian power industry's interests, negotiating deals to sell nuclear power stations after Russian engineers complete their long delayed unit at Bushehr. As a partner with the West, he gets the right to argue Russian commercial interests in Iran, even as the Bush administration denounces Iran's support for terrorism and its quest for nuclear weapons.
And in the confrontation with Iraq, Mr. Putin has adopted the American position that Saddam Hussein must open his borders to United Nations inspectors or face the consequences. Still, he has kept the lines open to Baghdad to hold onto multibillion-dollar contracts to develop new Iraqi oil fields. And Russia, whose equipment built Iraq's army, is likely to supply Saddam's successor, perhaps in competition with the West. 
In other words, the concept of a resurgent Russian state providing energy security for the West is beginning to work to Russia's benefit, and the gains for Russia are palpable. In part because of President Putin's relationship with President Bush, the concept seems less threatening than most forecasts for Russia did a few years ago, even if Russia's new vibrance does not quite radiate to the grumpy shores of the Persian Gulf.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); TRENDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORY (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



98 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Some Woods Supporters Are Aware Of His Flaws

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
Golf pros are the corporate world's geishas. They are sweet-talking stroker-jokers. They ease the lives of stock rockers who need to network outdoors where it's hard to wiretap their insider-trade conversations. Teaching pros hustle the hustlers ("Just a few hundred more lessons, C.E.O. Billy, and you'll be ready for the Sing Sing Open, heh-heh."), make them feel manly and give them socially acceptable reasons to be out of the office and away from their families on those lush lawns where you can mix with your own kind.
 This is why the PGA touring pros, the divas of this world, are so important. They exist to give golf the patina of a real sport with popular appeal. It's on TV! The touring pros also reaffirm the natural orders of the country club and the corporation. No wonder that the reigning deities of golf, Bobby Jones, the Confederate prince; Arnold Palmer, the people's choice; and Tiger Woods, the world's highest-paid supermodel, are also conservative role models. 
 Last week, even as Tiger Woods was paired with Jack Nicklaus, his rival for greatest of all time, in a made-for-TV match, I was treading water on a tidal wave of e-mail messages responding to my chronic problem with the elevation of Woods to Jock Culture hero.
But there has been a shift in the response since the Tiger tweak last year, when the overwhelming response to the great Caucasian-black-American Indian-Asian, or in his words Cablinasian (so who was that masked man?), was that he bore the glorious face of the future and anyone who couldn't see it was covetous, racist, old. This time, perhaps because of events beyond the greens, certainly the loss of confidence in corporations, there was a kind of weary acceptance of Tiger's flaws.
A Manhattan woman, Annie V. Davis, wrote: "Who cares when the silly ole men at Augusta National (who refused Bill Gates, too) will invite silly ole women to join them. Pumping up this issue is also a form of harlotry, only of the journalistic variety. Get real! No woman, or man, that I know will ever be invited. And I don't care, as long as they continue to produce the best golf tournament in the world. That is the only real thing about them."
This was after Tiger, asked about the policy of discriminating against women at the Masters in Augusta (and by extension at Muirfield, in Scotland, the host of the recent British Open), carved this on the locker-room wall: "They're entitled to set up their own rules the way they want them. It would be nice to see everyone have an equal chance to participate if they wanted to, but there is nothing you can do about it."
Even the excuses for him were mild and sports-related. Ward Jones of Houston wrote: "I still take exception to your criticism of him for not speaking out against Muirfield's exclusionary policy against women. It may have been that he simply didn't want to get embroiled in a controversy that would take his mind off his golf game, rather than his allegiance to any corporate sponsor."
Phoebe Howard of Fresno, Calif., while affirming Woods's legitimate superstardom, wrote: "But his profound lack of regard for the world around him is distressing and disappointing. I mean, 26 years old? He's not 18. (Mr. Woods's dismissal of the comments was even weirder than his son making them.) Forget activism. It's too bad that Tiger Woods declines even to inspire constructive dialogue."
Of course, I had my supporters. The retired sports columnist and political activist Lester Rodney thought that Woods "sounds exactly like a lot of apologists for baseball's apartheid ban back in the 30's."
Calling Woods a corporado whose ultimate allegiance is to the conglomerates whose products he endorses brought several interesting responses. Art Lowrie of Tampa, Fla., asked: "Would you call Arnold Palmer a 'corporado' for endorsing the Callaway ERC driver against the rules of the U.S.G.A. after he had signed a lucrative endorsement contract with Callaway? I would."
But Brent T. Davis, a Mercer Island, Wash., educator, did not construe it as criticism. "Capitalism is the key to the salvation of the human race, physical and not spiritual, of course," he wrote. "We simply cannot sustain the world's population without free markets, increased capitalization and their corresponding technological and intellectual innovation.
"Tiger Woods seems to have a very adult grip on these concepts and realizes that barriers fall as conditions become economically rational for them to fall. There is certainly room at the moment, and probably will be for all time, for single-sex institutions."
All this sociology may be so much baggage that it will crush Tiger. My main source of wisdom on sports matters psychological -- the former Canadian national heavyweight lifting champion Dr. Michael Miletic -- wonders if Tiger self-destructed at Muirfield to avoid becoming the designated greatest golfer of all time. As a mixed-race man in an overwhelmingly white sport, Tiger might not have been ready for that added pressure. Miletic, a psychiatrist who treats many pro athletes, noted that Tiger tended to make his putts in the later rounds when he was too far behind to win. So, when Tiger reappears this week at the Buick Open, you can watch him being a patient as well as a performer and corporado.
Don't bother responding to this because I'm out of here for a month. When I come back it's going to be college football, this year's one true sport. And I don't want to hear that Bobby Jones, Arnold Palmer and Tiger Woods were all once college boys.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (87%); CELEBRITIES (79%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); WIRETAPPING (72%); WOMEN (69%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); GENDER EQUALITY (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%) GOLF; WOMEN; MASTERS GOLF TOURNAMENT 

ORGANIZATION: AUGUSTA NATIONAL GOLF CLUB 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%) LIPSYTE, ROBERT; WOODS, TIGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



99 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Deal Is Reached That Would End 7-Week Bus Strike in Queens 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The union representing 1,500 striking workers at three private bus lines in Queens reached a tentative contract agreement yesterday with the city and the bus companies that would end a seven-week walkout, union and company officials said.
 Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, said a ratification vote would be held on Tuesday at a meeting of drivers, mechanics and cleaners, making it possible for buses to begin rolling again on Wednesday morning. "It looks as if midnight Tuesday night, we could get the buses rolling," he said. 
 The city's labor commissioner, James F. Hanley, became involved in intense negotiations over the last week after many Queens residents complained that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was doing too little to settle the strike. The tentative accord was reached at 3 a.m. yesterday, after a 17-hour bargaining session. 
The city had a major role in the negotiations because the three bus companies -- the Queens Surface Corporation, Jamaica Buses Inc. and Triboro Coach Corporation -- receive large operating subsidies from the city and said they needed additional aid to reach a deal with the union. 
To many Queens residents, the strike was a serious hardship because it came during unusually hot weather and halted services normally used by more than 110,000 people a day.
"The companies have signed onto the tentative agreement," said Mark Brossman, the chief negotiator for the three companies. "The companies are happy that the workers are coming back and service will be restored."
City Hall officials were cautious about trumpeting a deal, noting that there appeared to be an agreement three weeks ago, but it fell apart when a feud between union factions prevented it from being put to a rank-and-file vote.
"We're cautiously optimistic, but we've been down this road before," said Edward Skyler, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg. 
The main issues in the dispute were health benefits and the union's demand for job security. To help finance the settlement, the city agreed to provide the bus companies with $3.75 million to help pay for the workers' health coverage.
The workers had insisted on guarantees to protect their jobs and pensions because city officials have proposed letting other companies bid for the Queens bus franchises, which expire on Dec. 31, 2003. The bus companies said they could not promise job security past the expiration of the franchises. For his part, Mr. Bloomberg refused to promise job security beyond the life of the workers' contract.
It appeared as if the strike would end three weeks ago when the Queens borough president, Helen M. Marshall, persuaded the city to lend the bus lines $2 million to finance health benefits. The strike continued, though, after several union leaders blocked a vote because there were no promises of job security. But over the last two weeks, a majority of City Council members have lined up behind job security provisions, pushed by the union, that would protect jobs even if other companies won or obtained the franchises.
Mr. Toussaint said the 27-month contract, which is to expire next March 31, calls for raises of 4 percent in the first year and the second year, and 1 percent on the contract's last day. The workers, who walked out on June 17, are to receive most of the wage increase retroactively, because their old contract expired on Dec. 31, 2000. The workers now earn an average of $20.35 an hour.
Ms. Marshall said she was delighted by the deal. "It's critical and important," she said. "This strike hurt the economy of Queens drastically. Businesses didn't have nearly all the local trade they used to get."
In May, the bus companies and the union signed a memorandum of agreement on several major issues, but they said signing a formal contract was contingent upon receiving more financial help from the city. When the city balked at providing aid, the union went on strike. Mr. Bloomberg had insisted that it was a private dispute that should be settled by the companies and the union and not by City Hall.
Mr. Toussaint said the city seized on the strike to weaken the union and put it on the defensive before it begins its most important negotiations later this year. Local 100 represents more than 30,000 New York City Transit workers, whose contract expires on December 15.
One of the last issues to be resolved was whether the city's $3.75 million contribution would be considered a loan. City officials wanted the money to be a loan, Mr. Toussaint said, but the companies considered it an advance. The tentative agreement calls the $3.75 million an advance that the three companies are to repay by making productivity improvements. 
Negotiators said that more than the original $2 million loan was needed because the city did not provide the companies with more than $1 million to finance the companies' health insurance premiums that came due during the strike. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (93%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MAYORS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JAMAICA BUSES INC (69%); TRIBORO COACH CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



100 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-15

New Laws for Turkey In Move Toward Europe
Turkey's Parliament approved a reform package aimed at improving its chances of joining the European Union by abolishing the death penalty and granting greater rights to the nation's Kurds. 12

Pakistan Wavers in Showdown
The government of Gen. Pervez Musharraf appears to be backing down on the Islamic schools, or madrasas, in Pakistan often accused of spreading religious extremism. Caught between Western worry and the home-grown strength of the clerics, government ministers said they would consider watering down their proposals. 10

Bhutto Plans Candidacy
Benazir Bhutto, one of two former prime ministers of Pakistan who are living in exile, said she would return to her homeland to run for office in the elections scheduled for October and that she would face being jailed by the country's military dictator. 10

Taiwan Risks Beijing's Anger
Taiwan's president said separate countries exist on each side of the Taiwan Strait and backed legislation that would authorize a referendum on Taiwan independence. 4

Zimbabwe's Land Transfer
The government of President Robert Mugabe has ordered thousands of the country's most productive farmers -- the white commercial farmers -- to leave their farms for good by Thursday, even though the United Nations says that half the population is threatened by famine. 1

Korea Talks to Be Held
North and South Korea agreed to hold the first inter-Korean cabinet-level talks in nearly a year on a wide range of critical issues including a skirmish in the Yellow Sea in June in which five South Koreans were killed. 15

NATIONAL 16-24

Terror Detentions Prompt Sprawling Legal Battle
The government's detention of more than 1,200 people in the search for terrorists after Sept. 11 has provoked a sprawling legal battle, now being waged in federal courthouses around the country, that experts say is redefining the balance between individual liberties and national security. 1

Foreign Investors Cautious
Foreign investors, who once joined with confident Americans in a wave of spectacular acquisitions and business spending that helped power the 1990's economic boom, are turning cautious about the United States economy. 1

Family Ties in Washington
Numerous kin of Congressional and administration officials are employed in lobbying shops around Washington, including relatives of three of the four top members of Congress. 1

Worries Over Nile Fever
People are anxious in Louisiana, where Gov. Mike Foster has declared a statewide health emergency in the face of what could be the worst-ever outbreak in the United States of the mosquito-borne West Nile virus. 16

Relics With a History
Civil war buffs are flocking to the year-old National Civil War Museum in Harrisburg, Pa., but former owners of some of the relics there are crying foul. 16

Battle of the Casparados
The 500 or so residents of Caspar, Calif., are waging a sophisticated, impassioned campaign to preserve their town. 17

Coal Miners Sell Story
Nine Pennsylvania coal miners who were trapped underground for more than three days have sold the television and book rights to their tale to the Walt Disney Company. 16

NEW YORK/REGION 27-35

Lost Voices of Sept. 11 Reveal Firefighters' Courage
A tape of lost voices, ignored until recently by investigators studying the emergency response on Sept. 11, shows that firefighters climbed far higher into the ruined south tower than anyone had realized. At least two men reached the crash zone on the 78th floor. 1

Post 9/11 Broadway
Since Sept. 11, theatergoers have been buying tickets more on the spur of the moment than far in advance. Anxious producers say this change promises to have long-term effects on what shows come to Broadway. 1

Fresh Air Fund 35

EDUCATION

School Changes Could Be Slow
Aides to Mayor Bloomberg describe the changes in the school system as evolution, rather than revolution, and urge patience with things that matter most to parents, like test scores and classroom overcrowding. 27

OBITUARIES 36

Frank Inn
One of television's greatest animal star makers, he was 86. 36

Kohei Matsuda
The former president of Mazda who helped introduce the rotary engine in Japan and who turned around a professional baseball team, he was 80. 36

Chess 35
Weather 37
Cong. Vote 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL WAR (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FAMINE (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); WEST NILE VIRUS (63%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (60%); VIRUSES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (71%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (70%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (94%); TAIWAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002 



101 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 3627 words

HEADLINE: PROFILES; 
The Super Bowl

BYLINE:  By Sol Hurwitz; Sol Hurwitz, a freelance writer, is a former president of the Committee for Economic Development, an organization of business leaders and educators. As a school board member in Rye, N.Y., he headed a search committee for a superintendent.

 BODY:
Imagine a job that requires an Army officer's leadership skills, a C.E.O.'s management expertise, a lawyer's negotiating talents and an educator's understanding of how to teach children. That's what it takes to be a school superintendent in the 21st century. 
 It may be the toughest job in America. Superintendents are hard pressed to recruit and retain competent teachers and produce high-scoring students while balancing budgets and making the yellow buses run on time. They must maneuver a maze of government regulations and mollify a swarm of constituents: parents, teachers and community advocates, not to mention their bosses on the board of education or, increasingly, in city hall. 
 In fact, a superintendent's average tenure is only five years, half that in large, urban districts, even though experts say it takes 5 to 10 years for reforms to take hold. Los Angeles, the nation's second largest school district, has had six leaders in a decade. New York City, the nation's largest, has had 10 in 20 years. In another turn of the revolving door, its chancellor of just two and a half years is soon to step down, now that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has won control of the schools and is about to put his own choice in place. 
"The job consumes all of you, your personal life and your professional life," says Gerry House, who held the post in Chapel Hill, N.C., and Memphis and is now president of the Institute for Student Achievement in Lake Success, N.Y. "I made the decision I didn't want to be a superintendent again. I was actually exhausted." Superintendents also complain of isolation: their work allows little time for exchanging ideas with colleagues. To encourage off-the-record dialogue, the Aspen Institute has set up a superintendents' support group that meets annually to trade information and air anxieties. "There was a lot of complaining about school boards," one participant says. 
The job was not always so stressful. In the mid-1800's, school districts in large cities appointed the first superintendents to oversee several schoolhouses, assuring that the classrooms were orderly and the stoves had enough coal to last the winter. Today there are 13,500 districts, including some of the nation's largest institutions. If the New York City school system were a corporation, it would rank in the top third of the Fortune 500. 
What makes a good superintendent? Researchers are spending millions of dollars to discover the precise blend of leadership skills and local circumstances that spell success. But there are no easy answers. "There are some individuals whose talents run more to building programs, and others to maintaining them, and others to demolishing them and making hard decisions about what to put in their place," says Susan Moore Johnson, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who studies educational leadership. "While an effective superintendent should be strong in all those areas, it's not common to find someone who is." 
The typical superintendent -- a white, professionally trained male educator -- is now out of sync with the growing minority student population of America's school districts and their largely female work force. "When these superintendents call it quits," says Paul D. Houston, the executive director of the American Association of School Administrators, "we can expect to see more women, more minorities and noneducators take their place." 
While the most common career path is teacher to principal to administrator to superintendent, school boards are questioning whether conventional educators have what it takes to manage an enterprise that seems forever entangled in politics and bureaucracy and that requires skills far different from teaching children or running a school. Accordingly, some large cities are tapping business, government, law or the military as sources for nontraditional problem solvers. 
New York's departing schools leader, Harold O. Levy, is a Citigroup alumnus; to replace him, Mayor Bloomberg has searched primarily for a candidate with management credentials, who would be helped by a strong educator as deputy -- a model that can already be found in Chicago, San Diego, Los Angeles and Seattle.
But Mr. Levy's short tenure suggests that outsiders are no more secure in their jobs than traditional educators. In Baltimore and in Washington, the school board has replaced, respectively, a fiscal expert and a retired Army general with conventional educators who were experienced in the tricky business of managing teachers and administrators. For one thing, boards may bristle when a superintendent's thinking wanders too far outside the box. "Sometimes the district finds the approaches of that person too radical, too threatening, and so they go back to hiring an insider," says Professor Johnson of Harvard.
As Charles Taylor, an Atlanta job recruiter, said recently, "School boards are looking for God -- on a good day."

Four Who Are Reversing the Course of Failing Schools

Alan D. Bersin
Superintendent, San Diego
Unified School District
While discussing the business of running California's second largest school district (enrollment: 145,000), Mr. Bersin disarms visitors by sitting on top of a large inflatable exercise ball. The ball, for toning muscles, "keeps my back straight and my courage strong," he says. Last October, the ball got a workout when a storm erupted over an e-mail sent to colleagues by the school board president, a steadfast supporter of Mr. Bersin. It suggested that two rebellious board members should be shot. 
"Of course, the e-mail was inexcusable and unwarranted," Mr. Bersin, 55, says. "But it's a reflection of the tumult that accompanies large-scale reform." 
A troubling reality of Mr. Bersin's tenure is that he has functioned with a tenuous 3-to-2 majority on the board since he was hired four years ago. The two dissenting school board members have challenged his every move, despite his success in streamlining the bureaucracy and raising test scores.
Mr. Bersin says that his highest priority has been to reverse San Diego's slide in student achievement "by creating a system in which instruction drives all major decisions in the district." Evaluations of district personnel are based strictly on their contributions to teaching and learning, and schools at all levels have shown solid improvements in the percentages of students scoring above average on standardized tests. Moreover, the lowest-achieving students are making greater gains than the district as a whole. 
"San Diego invests heavily in mentoring and professional development for both teachers and principals rather than the blizzard of fads that have been the traditional response to low achievement," says Linda Darling-Hammond, a Stanford University professor of education who is studying San Diego's schools. "As a result, some of the best-trained teachers are choosing San Diego over nearby suburbs."
Mr. Bersin, a former varsity football player at Harvard and a Rhodes scholar, gained a reputation as a tough prosecutor in the office of the United States attorney for the Southern District of California before joining the Clinton administration as its border czar on drug and immigration issues, a job he now considers easier than his current post. 
Lacking an educator's credentials, he recruited a chief academic officer with a national reputation, Anthony J. Alvarado, who had resigned as New York City chancellor amid questions of financial misconduct but later earned distinction for improving academic performance as head of District 2 in Manhattan. Mr. Bersin gave Mr. Alvarado the title of chancellor of instruction, avoiding the label deputy. "It's not the traditional hierarchy," he says. "We're partners." 
Mr. Bersin and Mr. Alvarado are frequent targets of the San Diego teachers' union, whose leaders have lined up behind the two dissident board members. Union officials fault the administrators for their top-down management style, citing the layoff of 600 teacher's aides and the appointment of peer coaches to train teachers without consulting the union. An independent study in February found that while teachers were now better trained, their low morale risked undermining the administration's efforts. 
"The superintendent and the current school board majority have made it very clear that they have no intention of working collaboratively with educators and parents in repairing the damage that has been done this past four years," said Marc Knapp, the union president, in one of the monthly grenades he lobs at Mr. Bersin from the union's Web site. Mr. Bersin disputes the statement. "The issue is whether people come to the table for constructive dialogue, or whether, like Khrushchev at the U.N., they bang their shoe on the table with a blunt nyet."
"The fault lines here remain very sharply etched," he adds. In June, by a 3-to-2 vote, the board approved a four-year extension of his contract. But an election in November for two open school board seats will be viewed as a referendum on his tenure. He is confident of retaining a majority. 
"I'm committed to seeing it through," he says.

Carmen Varela Russo
Chief Executive, Baltimore
City Public School System
From her office in Mid-City, headquarters for Baltimore's 98,000-student school system, Ms. Russo looks out on a depressed urban landscape of abandoned buildings -- a sharp contrast with the city's quaint tourist seaport and historic homes. It is in such impoverished neighborhoods that she has singled out nine failing high schools for wholesale restructuring.
"This job is not for the young or the faint of heart," says Ms. Russo, 66, a Bronx native whose no-nonsense tactics have led some people to cast her as an in-your-face New Yorker. Defying fierce opposition, she has rammed through a redistricting and school-closing plan -- a strategy, she says, that is rooted in concern for the students. "Everyone knows where the troubled schools are," she says. "I'm willing to say it's intolerable to teach children under those conditions."
Ms. Russo passed a crucial hurdle in February when the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and nine local foundations invested $20.7 million in her high school rescue effort. The initiative calls for creating rigorous academic programs and small supportive learning communities, as well as making teachers and principals accountable for results. A revitalized Southern High School, the first of the nine to be overhauled, will open next month. In addition, the plan -- affecting half the city's high school population -- envisions eight small "innovation schools," most established in unconventional settings like office buildings, shopping malls or colleges. 
A former teacher, principal and deputy superintendent in Broward County, Fla., and chief executive of the division of high schools in New York City, Ms. Russo grew up in a Spanish-speaking household. Her father and grandparents emigrated from Spain; her mother was reared in Tampa, where her mother worked rolling cigars. "My family had a strong work ethic and a belief in the importance of education," she says. 
Ms. Russo was chosen chief executive in Baltimore in 2000 for her experience managing large districts with poor minority populations. Her predecessor, a noneducator, was a fiscal expert who resigned after two years because of budget problems. On her arrival, Ms. Russo was saddled with a $20 million budget deficit, which she has since reduced by $11 million. 
Colleagues call Ms. Russo "a high-energy type" and "politically savvy" -- traits that may help when she tries to persuade the State Assembly to increase its five-year, $250 million investment in reforms. "She knows how to play the characters around her," an associate says. 
An independent study ordered by the Maryland Legislature and released in December found that Baltimore's schools were "tremendously improved" since 1997, when a city-state partnership began running the district. In June, school officials reported that first graders tested above the national median in reading and math for the second straight year, while middle schoolers showed improvements in both subjects. 
A hands-on administrator who reads books by the management guru Peter F. Drucker, Ms. Russo says she believes in "engaging the whole community in a dialogue." One group that feels excluded, however, is the district's 7,400 teachers. The independent study found that teachers were suspicious of the administration and felt disenfranchised. A third are new to the district or to teaching, and 27 percent are uncertified. Consequently, they are demanding more support -- mentors and master teachers in the classroom -- and professional development. 
"The teachers have had everything happening to them at once -- new books and a new curriculum aligned with state standards," Ms. Russo says. "Teachers need and deserve this support, absolutely."
Ms. Russo talks openly about her struggle to succeed in a field dominated by men. "There's a perception that women can handle the younger children, but when you get to high school and management positions, it's a different story," she says. "I had someone tell me that a woman would never be chancellor in New York City." Why? "Because the job was too hard."

Joseph Olchefske
Superintendent, Seattle
Public Schools
Adorning the credenza in Mr. Olchefske's office is a daruma, a bright red Japanese doll symbolizing perseverance and success. According to custom, the owner paints the left eye black when making a wish and the right eye when the wish is granted. Mr. Olchefske points proudly to the doll's two black eyes, a sign that he has fulfilled his wish for high academic standards.
For nearly a year Mr. Olchefske worked in the shadow of the charismatic John Henry Stanford, a retired Army general and a mythic figure among superintendents. Mr. Olchefske, 44, filled in while Mr. Stanford fought leukemia. He was named superintendent in 1999 after Mr. Stanford's death. 
Since then, the affable but tough-minded Minnesota native has put his own stamp on the district. Over the last three years the percentage of Seattle students meeting state standards has risen, attendance is up and dropout rates are down. Last October the Seattle school board extended his contract and handed him a hefty raise -- more than $12,000, lifting his salary to $175,000. 
Soon after taking charge, Mr. Olchefske began a corporate-style marketing campaign, complete with an inspirational slogan ("Delivering on the Dream") and a shooting-star logo, to sell an innovative program that revamps teaching to meet the state's new learning standards. With a new evaluation system in place, the district thinks it can determine how much a teacher and a school have contributed to a student's performance. 
The youngest of seven children in a close-knit family, Mr. Olchefske received degrees from the University of Chicago and the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, where, thanks to a photographic memory, he rarely took notes. After graduating, he went home to help support his mother and care for his father, a plant foreman who was dying of cancer.
He joined the Seattle Public Schools in 1995 as chief financial officer after a 12-year career with an investment bank -- a nontraditional background that has served him well with corporate leaders. "He speaks their language," says Robin K. Pasquarella, the president of the Alliance for Education, an organization of 55 business and civic leaders in Seattle. Mr. Olchefske has a gift for explaining complicated subjects in simple terms -- speaking, of course, without notes.
Though corporate and private support for Seattle schools has increased, with dwindling state funds the district faces a projected $16 million shortfall next year. The superintendent intends to offset this mainly through an infusion of $6 million in new federal funds and cuts in administrative and support services. To help place the district on a sound financial footing, Mr. Olchefske developed a formula that measures the cost of educating each of the district's 47,600 students, according to their needs. "A student with a hearing problem or a low performer who needs extra help will cost more than a high achiever," he explains. Parents may choose any of Seattle's public schools, and money follows the students. 
Academically, his strategy is to give schools freedom to create their own programs, while enforcing accountability for what students should learn and when they should learn it. He replaced 60 of 100 principals because of poor performance and negotiated a teachers' contract that allows schools to choose their own teachers, regardless of seniority. 
While Mr. Olchefske retains broad backing, his critics say the district needs an educator at the helm, not a manager. Teachers have faulted his corporate mind-set and what they see as his failure to grasp how much his demands distract them from teaching. Minority groups have blamed him for disparities in the academic performance of different races. 
But as an unflagging optimist, Mr. Olchefske is mindful of the daruma's chief feature: it bounces back after being knocked over.

Barbara Byrd-Bennett
Chief Executive, Cleveland
Municipal School District
Ms. BYRD-BENNETT is not a typical bureaucrat. She punctuates conversations about proficiency standards with "Cool!" Her signature is a pair of dangly earrings -- usually American Indian designs in silver and malachite. She calls Cleveland's 76,000 schoolchildren "my kids" and visits them unannounced, not just when news cameras are on the premises. "I want to know and be connected to the kids," she says. "I need to tie the data on academic achievement to the faces, blood and skin of real children." 
For her attempts to revitalize the decaying schools of Cleveland, she was named top urban school leader last year by the Council of the Great City Schools, an organization of about 60 large school systems. "She has been able to turn a critical corner in Cleveland that has not been turned before," says Michael Casserly, the council's executive director.
Before she arrived as chief executive in 1998, the school district was under state control with an operating debt of $185 million. Substitute teachers taught hundreds of classes, and the district had not met any of the state's 27 proficiency standards. Today the system is solvent, posting gains in reading and math and meeting four standards. But that leaves 23 more to go, and most students perform well below the norms. Improvement, she admits, is incremental in a school district where 80 percent of the students are from low-income homes. 
A former teacher, Ms. Byrd-Bennett, 52, has courted Cleveland's teachers with higher salaries and improved working conditions. Her supporters point to an intuitive ability to connect with people -- from kindergartners to C.E.O.'s -- and a laserlike focus on literacy. But her crowning achievement has been voter approval of a construction bond issue that will generate $1 billion to overhaul crumbling schools. Her goal, she says, is "to repair, renovate or rebuild" all of Cleveland's 120 school buildings, making them "warm, safe and dry."
From an early age, her father, a postal worker, and her mother, a sales clerk, instilled the lessons of study and hard work. Raised on 125th Street in Harlem, she graduated from high school at 16 and at 19 from Long Island University, with a degree in English literature. "The course load was 18 credits," she says. "I got the dean's approval to take 21. I could take courses in Latin, philosophy, foreign languages -- things I had a passion for." After college she took up painting, mainly landscapes, which she pursued seriously until arriving in Cleveland. She has restored arts to the district's curriculum. Signaling its importance, student artwork is the dominant motif in her office. 
Before migrating to the Midwest, Ms. Byrd-Bennett supervised New York City's Chancellor's District, a designation for its poorest performing schools, and a concept she imported to Cleveland by establishing C.E.O. Schools with increased academic and staff support. In fact, Ms. Byrd-Bennett's name emerged early on as a contender for the New York City chancellor position, or the deputy spot.
Cleveland is among a growing number of cities, including Chicago, Boston and Detroit, where mayors have taken over the public schools, arguing that centralization provides better integration of services and a single point of electoral accountability. In 1998, the Ohio Legislature removed responsibility for Cleveland's schools from an elected school board mired in charges of incompetence and corruption and gave it to the mayor, who appointed Ms. Byrd-Bennett. A voter referendum in November will determine whether the system will revert to control by an elected board, a move that Ms. Byrd-Bennett says would lead to her resignation. "Given the history in this town and what I have seen happen, most elected boards believe they are responsible to their constituencies, not to the children." 
Ms. Byrd-Bennett's district has also been at the heart of the voucher battle, and she remains opposed to the use of government funds for private-school tuition on the grounds that it siphons resources from public schools. About 4,000 Cleveland children receive up to $2,250 each, most to attend Catholic schools, as part of Ohio's seven-year-old voucher program. This summer, the United States Supreme Court declared the program constitutional. 
Ms. Byrd-Bennett thinks the Court was influenced by the financial and academic condition of Cleveland schools in the early 1990's, when the system was in state receivership. The ruling, she says, was made "in the context of the failures of the Cleveland schools that no longer exist."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Bersin takes a rest from San Diego's contentious school board politics to read to second graders. (Dave Gatley for The New York Times); Carmen Varela Russo tours Southern High School, which reopens next month as the first of nine revitalized Baltimore high schools. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); Joseph Olchefske worked with banks before leading schools. (Karie Hamilton for The New York Times); Barbara Byrd-Bennett with "my kids," the children of Cleveland. (Barney Taxel for The New York Times)igh schools. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); Joseph Olchefske worked with banks before leading schools. (Karie Hamilton for The New York Times); Barbara Byrd-Bennett with "my kids," the children of Clev 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); MAYORS (76%); CITIES (74%); ARMIES (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); BUDGETS (71%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE 

PERSON: ALAN BERSIN (71%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%) HURWITZ, SOL; BYRD-BENNETT, BARBARA; OLCHEFSKE, JOSEPH; RUSSO, CARMEN VARELA; BERSIN, ALAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) SAN DIEGO (CALIF); BALTIMORE (MD); SEATTLE (WASH); CLEVELAND (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2002



102 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Aforecaster predicts a recovery in the media sector, but not of the vigor seen in the past.

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the United States communications industry is expected to rebound in the second half of this year, it will no longer be one of the nation's top-three fastest growing industries, according to the widely followed annual forecast by the merchant bank Veronis Suhler Stevenson.
 And the bank, which plans to release its report today, does not expect the industry to recover from the current recession as robustly as it did from the last one 11 years ago. 
 In its 16th annual communications industry forecast, the bank, which specializes in the media, communications and information industries, said the last recovery had been fueled by the growth of the high-technology category, when the Internet was still in its infancy as a consumer medium.
"Tech spending has since cooled dramatically, and there is no equivalent new generator of advertising spending either developing or looming on the horizon," the report says. 
The bank also says the media industry's comparative growth rate is slowing. The bank said the communications industry will be the nation's fifth-fastest-growing segment of the economy from 2001 to 2006, at a 5.5 percent annual rate, on average. But it was the third fastest-growing from 1996 to 2001, when it grew 6.5 percent a year. And it was the second-fastest growing in 2000.
On a more positive note, Veronis Suhler Stevenson predicted that advertising spending would rise 2.9 percent this year, compared with a 6.2 percent drop in 2001, and that all communications spending -- including advertising and promotional expenditures, and spending by consumers and businesses on all media -- will increase 4.8 percent, to nearly $610 billion, after falling 0.3 percent last year.
Media categories expected to post the healthiest spending growth rates between 2001 and 2006 are consumer Internet, cable and satellite television, and radio, Veronis Suhler Stevenson said. Not coincidentally, all but radio are what the bank considers nonadvertising-supported media, whose usage by consumers is expected to continue rising, while that of advertising-supported media, like broadcast TV, will decline.
Veronis Suhler Stevenson's projections for advertising gains this year are somewhat more bullish than those by other industry analysts. Last month, Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann, estimated that ad spending would grow 2.1 percent this year, while David Peeler, chief executive of advertising research firm CMR, earlier forecast a 2.5 percent gain.
Positive indicators have begun to emerge recently to set the stage for the industry's recovery, according to James P. Rutherfurd, executive vice president at Veronis Suhler Stevenson. He cited an increase in radio ad spending in the first quarter and an unexpectedly strong upfront buying season in the spring for broadcast television ads.
As the report predicts, "several other favorable economic indicators will prove positive for the communications industry by year's end, including increased business spending, low inventory levels, sustained low interest rates and the restoration of investor confidence."
Mr. Rutherfurd noted, "We then see a return to healthy growth, steady growth, non-Internet-inflated -- similar to the early to mid-1990's."
In preparing the forecast, Mr. Rutherfurd said Veronis Suhler Stevenson compared the communications industry's recent slowdown to its downturn during the 1991 recession, which was made worse by the Gulf War. He said recovery from the current recession would probably take longer than the last time and not be as vigorous.
"Advertising accounts for 30 percent of all communications spending and has a cyclical relationship with the economy," he said. "So as the economy improves, we expect advertising and therefore communications spending to grow in a parallel path."
One major bright spot in the forecast, is consumer spending on communications, which the report expects to rise 6.5 percent a year through 2006, mostly because of continued growth in spending on cable and satellite TV, consumer Internet, video games and box-office films.
Leo Kivijarv, director of research and publications at Veronis Suhler Stevenson, said that, compared with media consumers after the last recession, today's most influential consumers are "a younger audience, more technologically savvy, who spend on video games, DVD's, Internet access."
By 2006, he said, the average consumer will spend more than $100 annually on each of several media: cable or satellite television, home video and the Internet.
Consumers will continue to spend more time on nonadvertising supported media to the detriment of advertising-supported media, Veronis Suhler Stevenson predicts. In 1996, consumers spent slightly more than 68 percent of their media time on advertising-supported media, like broadcast television, magazines and newspapers, and nearly 32 percent on nonadvertising supported media, like recorded music and video games. But by last year, the report says, time spent on advertising-supported media had declined to 58.6 percent and is expected to drop further, to 56.3 percent, by 2006. 
The annual growth rate of spending on newspapers is forecast to rise 5.1 percent, from 2001 to 2006, while that of broadcast television is projected to increase 3.8 percent. Growth rates for spending are expected to be somewhat slower in consumer magazine publishing (3.2 percent), business-to-business media (3.1 percent) and consumer book publishing (2.8 percent).
And spending for recorded music is actually expected to decline 1.6 percent a year, on average, through 2006.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Media Outlook"The merchant bank Veronis Suhler Stevenson predicts that overall media revenue will grow at a 5.5 percent annual rate from 2001 to 2006. Here is how the bank sees specific media categories as changing over the next five years. Cable and satellite TVGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: $ 70.2'06 projected: 106.3'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 8.7% NewspapersGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 61.9'06 projected: 79.4'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 5.1 Filmed entertainmentGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 53.6'06 projected: 74.6'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 6.8 Broadcast TVGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 38.7'06 projected: 46.7'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 3.8 Consumer InternetGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 21.5'06 projected: 39.1'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 12.7 Business-to business mediaGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 21.0'06 projected: 24.4'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 3.1 Consumer magazinesGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 20.9'06 projected: 24.5'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 3.2 Radio broadcastingGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 17.9'06 projected: 24.1'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 6.2 Consumer booksGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 17.8'06 projected: 20.5'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 2.8 Recorded musicGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 13.9'06 projected: 12.8'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: - 1.6 Interactive entertainmentGROSS REVENUE, BILLIONS'01 actual: 6.4'06 projected: 10.0'01 to 06 PROJECTED COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: + 9.2 (Source: Veronis Suhler Stevenson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); EXECUTIVES (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (76%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); SATELLITE RADIO (62%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%) MEDIA; ADVERTISING; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: VERONIS SUHLER STEVENSON LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VERONIS SUHLER STEVENSON 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



103 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: What Voters Want 

BYLINE:  By Stanley B. Greenberg; Stanley B. Greenberg is chief executive of Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and conducts national surveys with Public Opinion Strategies for National Public Radio.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Members of Congress are home for the annual August recess. No more all-night debates on the new Department of Homeland Security. No more failed compromises on a prescription drug benefit for seniors. No more lobbyists and Washington fund-raisers. It's back to family, friends and constituents for barbecues, visits to senior centers and trips to shopping malls.
 For members of Congress -- 98 percent of whom have been re-elected in recent years -- the August recess usually confirms that all politics is local. 
 But things are different this August. The country and all its people have lived through an extraordinary year, defined by searing events and inescapable symbols. People are haunted by the deaths of Sept. 11, the destruction of the World Trade Center and the still unsolved anthrax attack through the mail. This was followed by war in Afghanistan, and now the possibility of war with Iraq looms. 
Enron came to represent a new kind of villainy, as corporate executives cashed out and employees lost their jobs and pensions. Arthur Andersen did more shredding than accounting. Ken Lay and a parade of other chief executives who had run their companies into the ground slunk across the news. The WorldCom scam was followed by a stock market crash and the shrinking of once-flush 401(k) plans.
Meanwhile, revered public institutions, previously above criticism, came under intense public scrutiny. The scandal of pedophile priests forced the leaders of the American Catholic Church to struggle with the idea of accountability. And the top administrators of the Federal Bureau of Investigation faced public scorn when it became known that they ignored the warnings of F.B.I. field agents about terrorist attacks.
This unrelenting stream of bad news and broken faith has reshaped the public consciousness just as members of Congress head home. Nearly 75 percent of their constituents and likely voters say they are very angry about the Enron executives and their misdeeds, according to bipartisan national surveys conducted for National Public Radio. Nearly an identical percentage are very angry about chief executives taking lavish bonuses and perks as their companies fail and pensions lose value. 
With 74 percent of likely voters in next year's election owning stocks or having retirement accounts, the financial scandals hit close to home: Three in five of these voters report suffering losses this year. These voters are looking at substantially diminished college funds and retirement savings. 
A public consensus is emerging that the behavior evident in the Enron and other scandals reflects a bigger problem: people in powerful positions now feel free to act irresponsibly and hurt ordinary people, without fear of being held accountable.
It is not surprising that trauma from these scandals has in recent days overtaken the sense of national unity that existed in the months immediately after Sept. 11. Voters are moving toward a different set of conclusions about the country. In March, according to N.P.R. surveys, 60 percent of voters thought the country was headed in the right direction, and only 28 percent thought things were headed seriously off track. But in the last month, voters' moods have turned very dark. Just 36 percent still think things are going well, while 56 percent think things are headed in the wrong direction.
In the aftermath of Sept. 11, the public rallied around America's institutions, including Congress, but that feeling is gone. As recently as April, 52 percent of voters surveyed said they wanted to re-elect their member of Congress, but in the last month, many voters have moved to a different judgment: just 41 percent said they were likely to vote for the incumbent, while 42 percent said they now want somebody new.
President Bush is still a popular leader who gets high marks for managing the war on terrorism. And according to a recent poll by Public Opinion Strategies, terrorism is still the public's top concern. But that is not true when people focus on how they will vote for members of Congress. In that context, the war on terrorism slips to fifth place. According to N.P.R. surveys, the top issues for Congressional races are the economy and jobs (mentioned by 35 percent of respondents), Social Security and Medicare (24 percent), education (23 percent) and affordable health care (21 percent).
At senior centers, voters will be eager to talk about low interest on their savings accounts and the collapsed value of their investments, if they had any. They will almost certainly ask whether federal policymakers will make Social Security benefits dependent on the stock market. And of course, they will ask their representatives in Congress why they aren't doing anything about the cost of prescription drugs.
As members of Congress greet people back home, they will still have to deal with lingering fears of unknown terror, unrelieved by Congressional consideration of a new Department of Homeland Security. The country cannot easily take a break from the issues and remembrances that weigh it down. After this year's events, voters are worried about America's security, economy, retirement and corporations. During the summer recess, members of Congress will still take up issues like getting more money for schools, roads or county hospitals. But this year, not all politics will be local. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCANDALS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); POLITICS (77%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ANTHRAX (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); PUBLIC RADIO (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); RELIGION (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); RETAILERS (56%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



104 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's New Role Model: Its Old Rival, Brazil 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Argentina and Brazil have always been South America's odd couple, as different from and as suspicious of each other as the French and the Germans once were. 
 Brazilians have traditionally regarded Argentines as arrogant and excessively formal, while Argentines have tended to look down on Brazilians as darker happy-go-lucky inferiors wallowing in tropical indolence. 
 But no longer, at least on the Argentine side.
With their economy in ruins and their sixth president in less than a year begging to leave office, humbled Argentines are increasingly comparing themselves to Brazil and Brazilians and concluding that despite Brazil's own recent difficulties, there is much to admire and emulate, from governance to lifestyle.
Argentines today "are like new converts to a religion who feel they have to prove their faith is more intense than that of old believers" said Oscar Raul Cardoso, a foreign affairs columnist for Clarin, a leading daily here. "There definitely has been a change of attitude and perception regarding Brazil, and I don't see any going back." 
Evidence of what is called "the Brazilian wave" here is everywhere. Bars and nightclubs with Brazilian names are considered the height of fashion, and while Argentines have been interested in Brazilian music since the days of Carmen Miranda, there is a new fascination with Brazilian dances and learning capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art.
Enrollment in Portuguese language classes has surged, in part driven by the hope of finding work in Brazil, and Brazilian television programs are carried on cable. In this most Europeanized of Latin American countries, even Afro-Brazilian religions like candomble are making inroads, with several terreiros, or temples, now operating here and frequented by white Argentines.
"Brazilians are warmer, happier and more amusing and open than Argentines, more comfortable in their own skins, I guess I would say," explained Gustavo Tedesco, 38, a veterinarian who has visited Brazil six times. "We need to learn from them how to be more cordial and less pedantic."
As he and his girlfriend, Luciana Casanova, 22, relaxed at a Brazilian nightclub here called Maluco Beleza, or Crazy Beauty, she added: "Brazilians just know how to enjoy life more and aren't obsessed with the dollar. They have their problems there too, but they don't let themselves get bogged down in melancholy the way we do."
The fascination with things Brazilian precedes the current crisis, the worst in modern Argentine history. But it has accelerated and broadened as a result of the collapse of the economy, during which the United States and Europe have largely stood by refusing to help while Brazil has emerged as Argentina's leading advocate and model.
Since taking office in January, President Eduardo Duhalde has repeatedly pointed to Brazil as a successful developing economy, particularly since its decision in 1999 to allow the value of its currency to decrease instead of keeping it pegged to the dollar.
Mr. Duhalde's economic ministers have consulted regularly with their Brazilian counterparts, especially Arminio Fraga, his country central bank president, who has visited here.
"Brazil has done a lot of things right and we have made a lot of mistakes," said Marcos Aguinis, a former Argentine culture minister and author of "The Intolerable Charm of Being Argentine." 
"They have become a formidable industrial power with an imaginative business class, which we don't have," Mr. Aguinis said. "And while we are still struggling to overcome the legacy of Juan Peron, they seem to have been able to erase the populism of Getulio Vargas," the Brazilian dictator of the 1930's and early 40's.
Most analysts agree that the main factor in demolishing stereotypes of Brazil here was rise of Argentine tourism during the 1990's, thanks to an artificially strong Argentine peso that was worth the same as a United States dollar and allowed even lower-class Argentines to travel abroad. 
As a result, the number of Argentines visiting Brazil rose from about 250,000 in 1990 to 1.75 million in 2000, according to Brazilian government statistics.
"Before mass tourism began, Brazil was like a dark spot on the map to most Argentines," said Alejandro Frigerio, an anthropologist and sociologist here, "and going there was like going to Timbuktu. But when you land in Sao Paulo you see right away that Brazil is a serious, developed, functioning country. And since our country is not, the old stereotype of the Brazilians as inferiors, as monkeys, has given way to a new, highly idealized image."
More often than not, the Argentines who have returned from their vacations in Brazil bedazzled by what they have seen "want to understand and know more, about literature and fashion and the language," said Monica Hirst, director of the Brazilian Studies Center and Foundation here. "Brazil is now perceived as a more sophisticated and interesting place. Even racism against Brazilians has decreased enormously."
Since 1991, Argentina and Brazil have also the leaders of Mercosur, the South American Common Market, now the third-largest trading bloc in the world. That association has not only "inculcated an ideology of brotherhood and cooperation," as Dr. Frigerio puts it, it has also required Argentina to shelve its own aspirations as a regional power and recognize Brazil as "the senior partner in Mercosur," the phrase most often used by newspapers here.
As early as the 1940's, Peron's grandiose geopolitical reveries envisioned what he called "the ABC alliance," composed of Argentina, Brazil and Chile. He assumed that Argentina would emerge as the natural leader of that group, with Brazil playing a secondary role. But Argentine strategists now recognize that since Brazil's population and economy are five times as large as their own, it is pointless to resist Brazilian hegemony.
"Argentina is becoming a sort of extension of Rio Grande do Sul, part of a larger polity, and maybe that's not so bad," said Carlos Escude, an author of several books on Argentine foreign policy, referring to Brazil's southernmost state, which borders Argentina. "We would rather not be anyone's satellite, but there is far less opposition to our being a star in the Brazilian flag than a star in the American flag."
Though trade within the bloc has been hurt by the collapse of the Argentine economy and the current market turbulance in Brazil, the two countries nonetheless continue to talk of adopting a single currency. 
The two governments have also agreed to undertake joint trade missions abroad and are even discussing putting Argentine diplomats into Brazilian embassies in places like Africa, where Argentina has had to close many of its own embassies as an economy measure.
A few members of the military, mostly retirees trained since their days as cadets to think of Brazil as the enemy, continue to resist the reconciliation, as have some business groups that have lost their markets to Brazilian companies. Though theirs is clearly a minority view, Ms. Hirst argues that Brazilians cannot afford to take Argentina's new empathy for granted.
"It is one thing to perceive the other as a partner and a strategic option when you're feeling good about yourself," she said. "It's an altogether different situation when you feel that you have no other choices, so even as this crisis breaks down barriers and prejudices, we need to remember that there are also risks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Argentines taking part in an Afro-Brazilian religious ceremony at a candomble temple near Buenos Aires. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times) ChartArgentinaPOPULATION: 37.4 millionLITERACY RATE: 96.2%RACE/ETHNICITY97%: White (includes Spanish and Italian)3%: OthersLIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH: 75.3 years2000 PER CAPITA G.D.P.: $12,900 BrazilPOPULATION: 174.5 millionLITERACY RATE: 83.3%RACE/ETHNICITY55%: White (includes Portuguese, German, Italian, Spanish and Polish)38%: Mixed black and white6%: Black1%: OthersLIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH: 63.2 years2000 PER CAPITA G.D.P.: $6,500 (Source: C.I.A. World Factbook) Map of South America highlighting Brazil and Argentina

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RELIGION (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); POLITICS (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-BRAZIL; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (99%); BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) ARGENTINA; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



105 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Bolivia Congress Picks Ex-Leader Over Coca Advocate 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Bolivia's Congress ended a presidential tie today, picking an American-educated millionaire, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, to lead the country as it confronts economic malaise and growing social unrest.
 Mr. Sanchez de Lozada, a mining executive and a political centrist who was president from 1993 to 1997, won by a congressional vote of 84-43 over Evo Morales, a radical Indian leader of Bolivia's coca growers. 
 The men were the top two vote-getters in a national election in June, but neither won an outright majority, forcing a vote in Congress.
Two congressman left their votes blank today, while 26 voted for Manfred Reyes Villa. 
The Legislature convened Saturday and debated for more than 24 hours. Each of the 157 members gave a speech, with some wearing multicolored Indian clothing and speaking in indigenous languages. Others chewed coca leaf, the base material of cocaine but also a part of centuries-old Indian culture in the Andes.
Mr. Sanchez de Lozada assured his victory in the vote more than a week ago by securing an alliance with his rival, Jaime Paz Zamora, a leftist former president. 
Known by the nickname "Goni," Mr. Sanchez de Lozada spent most of his youth in the United States and still speaks Spanish with an American accent that is often the brunt of jokes among Bolivians. He grew up in Washington, where his father was a diplomat, and later studied philosophy and English literature at the University of Chicago.
Mr. Sanchez de Lozada will face an opposition galvanized by the blunt-talking Mr. Morales, whose Movement to Socialism party has given Bolivia's downtrodden Indian majority a strong political voice.
Mr. Morales fiercely opposes a program backed by the United States that has wiped out most coca plantations, while Mr. Sanchez de Lozada has vowed to continue the eradication effort. Washington heralds the program as a shining success in its war on cocaine, but eradication has led to deadly clashes between farmers and security forces. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COCAINE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

PERSON: SANCHEZ DE LOZADA, GONZALO 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ANDES (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) BOLIVIA

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



106 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS; 
A Trout-Centric History Of Montana, With Latte

BYLINE:  By James Gorman 

DATELINE: BIG SKY, Mont. 

 BODY:
I caught an alien the other day, a fish from one of those aggressive, invasive species that can take over an ecosystem in the time it takes to tie an improved clinch knot.
 It was not the northern snakehead, the fish that walks on land and breathes air. Nor was it a lionfish, with poisonous spines and a greedy eye on the niches now occupied by East Coast grouper and snappers, or an Asian swamp eel, another opportunistic air breather now wriggling around the boundaries of the Everglades, plotting a hostile takeover. 
 The creature I caught was a Montana rainbow trout, as bright as the light on the stream it came from, as treasured, by fishermen, as clean water, but an invader nonetheless. 
Rainbows, as most anglers know, are interlopers in Montana. They are native to river systems farther west. And brown trout, of course, are native to Europe.
These invaders are celebrated rather than feared -- at least by humans -- but they showed no mercy to native cutthroats and grayling as they pushed them aside. And like other invaders, they had an economic and cultural impact far beyond the river ecosystems they changed. 
I was thinking about these effects when I took a break from fishing to pick up an iced latte at a drive-through espresso bar, and later when I tasted the bison and chevre empanadas at the Big Sky food festival. I also thought about it when I talked to people here and in the nearby town of Bozeman who were from New York and Minnesota and other parts east, and when I chatted with a recent emigrant from Los Angeles at the Salt Lake City airport. 
What I thought was: Look what fishing can do to a place.
There are still a few people left in Montana who were born here. I even know one or two. Eastern Montana, far from the Rockies and deep in drought, is full of them. But in cities like Bozeman, rimmed by mountains and graced with magnificent rivers, my unscientific survey suggests that the alien invaders, with their salsa and their fine cabernets, are spreading like rainbow trout.
My theory is that the alien fish species caused the human invasion. I know there are other factors contributing to Montana's popularity, like the Rocky Mountains, Glacier National Park, Yellowstone National Park, grizzly bears and wolves, pure mountain lakes, evergreen forests, skiing, hiking, kayaking and a night sky that makes you want to break up into your component atoms and float into the Milky Way. Still, I think it's mostly about the trout.
Here's my capsule trout-centric version of Montana history. In 1889, rainbows and brown trout were introduced to Montana. They loved it and just took over. It was, "Me first, and the devil take the cutthroats." 
In short order, fly-fishing for the new trout began drawing well-paying sports from the East and enchanting the young Norman Maclean, who eventually wrote "A River Runs Through It." Then Robert Redford made the movie, and the whole world bought rods and vests and came to Montana. Now, as long as you stay near mountains and trout streams, a fine wine and chai tea are right around the corner.
The good thing about trout as invaders is that they don't wreck the neighborhood, from a human point of view. The Gallatin River, as it winds through canyon walls and evergreen-lined banks, or flat meadow sections, is as lovely as a river can be. One evening, I fished in a stretch that runs through meadows, just above Yellowstone Park, and in a windy, darkening sky, two bald eagles flew close overhead, tussling in the air.
And if the hatch of rental S.U.V.'s along the Gallatin's many turnouts feels oppressive, you can seek a bit of room up Taylor Creek, past the warning signs for grizzlies. It all feels wild, even if the management of trout rivers is intensive. 
I suppose every invasive species has its good and bad points. Snakeheads might serve as a common enemy, thus uniting people from different backgrounds and restoring a sense of community. 
The trout and the trout anglers they attract may cause a troubling amount of residential construction and high real estate prices, but then, they also brought fine cuisine. I'm not going to come down too hard on big-city ways, since I also traveled this summer in northeast Montana, red-meat rangeland, where chicken is considered a vegetable.
If you want to be a true Pollyanna, you might hope that since many human immigrants to the state are entranced by fishing, they want to protect the health of forests and rivers.
I spent a fair amount of time visiting fly shops along the Gallatin, and received a wide range of advice on what to use -- big attractor flies with bead-head nymph droppers, small caddis dries and emergers, and baetis emergers. That last bit of advice turned out to be quite good. On Taylor Creek, I drifted a CDC baetis emerger with a microshot through the fast runs, using a small, foam strike indicator. 
I was prepared for a subtle hesitation, or the line stopping for a moment. But instead the strike indicator suddenly dashed across the stream, and the rainbow danced on the water as I brought it in. 
That was a lovely moment, and I really should have thanked the trout, the way American Indians thanked the animals they hunted, for letting me catch it and savor its beauty. I also should have thanked it for the bison empanada, although the crab cake with remoulade and spiced apple chutney was even better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); FISHES (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); RIVERS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); LAKES (78%); HIKING (77%); TAKEOVERS (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); SKIING (66%); AIRPORTS (50%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT; TROUT 

PERSON: GORMAN, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) MONTANA

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



107 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: EASING ITS STANCE, U.S. OFFERS LOANS TO NATION IN CRISIS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, softening its stance against financial help for struggling countries, said today that it would grant up to $1.5 billion in short-term loans to Uruguay, an infusion that should allow its banks to reopen Monday morning.
 The loan, announced after emergency legislation was passed in Uruguay to help quell the nation's economic crisis, would be the first of its sort by the Bush administration to assist another country directly in a financial crisis. It is the latest sign that a worsening economic picture in Latin America is forcing the administration to reconsider such aid. 
 Bush officials had long asserted that such assistance -- which was common during the Clinton administration -- is often wasted or unfair to American taxpayers, and that it makes little sense to lend money to countries already facing unsustainable debt loads until they take steps to restructure their finances. 
But they said today that they expect that the loan will be repaid within days, once Uruguay receives a longer-term package of loans from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank that will bring total assistance to Uruguay to $3.8 billion.
The announcement in Washington came as Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill landed in Brazil on the first leg of a trip aimed at helping to reassure Latin American officials about the United States' attention to the troubled regional economy. The financial crisis that enveloped Argentina early this year -- leading the nation to default on $141 billion in debt -- has spread turmoil to Uruguay, Brazil and other Latin American nations, causing their currencies to fall in value and raising fears of major defaults on debt payments, including money owed to United States banks and investors.
Mr. O'Neill said tonight that the loan would "help Uruguay address the intense external pressures it has faced in recent months" and that it was made in recognition of "the extraordinary actions and commitments by the Uruguayan authorities to address these pressures."
Mr. O'Neill continued to backtrack from off-the-cuff comments he made a week ago in which he suggested that financial assistance to emerging-markets countries carries the risk that funds would be diverted by corrupt officials. 
"A government that puts in place and follows through on such strong economic policies merits the consistent support of the international financial institutions and the United States," Mr. O'Neill said tonight.
Administration officials asserted that the package for Uruguay, because of its size and duration, is nothing like the much bigger bailouts during the Clinton administration, including aid to Asian nations in 1997 and 1998 and to Mexico in 1995. A Treasury spokesman added that officials saw "no risk" to the Exchange Stabilization Fund, the account that will provide the money.
John B. Taylor, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, said tonight that the I.M.F. and the other banks continued to be the "instruments of choice" for this sort of aid. He said the Treasury Department only intervened because "the Uruguayans want to open their banking system" on Monday -- before the funds from the I.M.F. and other banks arrive. Tonight, the I.M.F., World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank confirmed that they had asked their boards to approve the financing this week.
In 1995, the Clinton administration was attacked by some Congressional Republicans over its decision to use the Exchange Stabilization Fund for the bailout of Mexico. Tonight, Mr. Taylor said Congressional leaders had been informed about the Uruguayan financing, though he did not say who was contacted or whether the plan was endorsed. The $1.5 billion figure, he added, represents the amount needed to back 100 percent of the Uruguayan deposits that would be available for immediate withdrawal once the banks reopen.
While this is the first intervention of this sort by the Bush administration, Mr. Taylor said "bridge loans" like this one were common "all through the 80's into the 90's."
Still, the loan helps to illustrate how the Bush administration has moved in a short time to soften its criticism of financial assistance to struggling economies, as it reacts to the threat of economic contagion and political instability in Latin America.
Just last week, Mr. O'Neill roiled financial markets and created a diplomatic flap when he suggested on the television program "Fox News Sunday" that to obtain additional aid, Latin American nations needed policies to "assure that, as assistance money comes, that it does some good and it doesn't just go out of the country to Swiss bank accounts."
The comments contributed to driving down the value of the Brazilian currency, the real, by about 14 percent in the next three days, and helped lead to a sharp sell-off in Brazilian debt. 
But the panic selling abruptly reversed course on Thursday, when Mr. O'Neill publicly retreated from his earlier comments, saying that Brazilian economic leaders had "done a remarkable job of maintaining sound fiscal and monetary policies." Explicitly signaling support for additional aid from the I.M.F. to Brazil -- which are in talks now for a multibillion-dollar package -- he added, "I continue to favor support for Brazil and other nations that take appropriate steps to build sound, sustainable and growing economies."
After Mr. O'Neill's about-face, the Brazilian real soared by nearly 10 percent, its largest one-day gain. A sliding currency makes it more difficult for Brazil to make payments on its more than $250 billion in debt, much of which is owed to American financial institutions or denominated in United States dollars.
Mr. O'Neill arrived today in Rio de Janeiro, and he is scheduled to meet with Brazilian officials and then travel to Uruguay and Argentina to meet with officials there.
The financing package came after Uruguayan lawmakers approved legislation that would prevent certain long-term deposits from being withdrawn for three years. Uruguay, a country of 3.4 million people tucked between Argentina and Brazil, has been likened to Switzerland for its relatively stable financial institutions. But in the growing crisis, most of the nation's banking reserves -- more than $2 billion -- had been depleted by nervous depositors before the banks were closed Tuesday.
Gene Sperling, who coordinated economic policy in Clinton administration's second term, praised the move to aid Uruguay but said it represented a clear policy shift for the Bush administration as it faces the threat of economic contagion in Latin America.
"This is an appropriate policy shift brought about by economic reality," Mr. Sperling said. "It's one thing to make a categorical statement during a campaign denying the existence of contagion," he said. "It's another thing to confront contagion like in Uruguay." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (60%); CORRUPTION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-URUGUAY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BRAZIL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); URUGUAY (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%) URUGUAY; BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



108 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Violent Day in Mideast Begins With Bus Bombing
A powerful bomb ripped apart an Israeli commuter bus in northern Galilee, igniting a fireball that killed 9 people and wounded 45, beginning a burst of Palestinian violence that defied Israel's tough crackdown. A shootout near the Damascus Gate in Jerusalem's Old City left three people dead; two ambushes wounded seven Israelis; and a fifth attack in the West Bank killed a married couple. The Islamic group Hamas claimed responsibility for the bus bombing. A1

U.S. Grants Uruguay a Loan
The Bush administration said it would grant up to $1.5 billion in short-term loans to Uruguay, an infusion that should allow its banks to reopen this morning. The loan, announced after emergency legislation was passed in Uruguay to help quell the nation's economic crisis, would be the first of its sort by the Bush administration to assist another country directly in a financial crisis. A1

China Condemns Speech
The Chinese government angrily condemned a speech on Saturday by President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan, who said that Taiwan and China were two separate countries and endorsed legislation to allow a referendum on Taiwanese independence. The Chinese reacted even as Taiwanese officials sought to play down some of President Chen's stronger remarks. A5

More North Koreans Fleeing
Beijing has been trying to stanch the flow of North Korean refugees, after a string of high-profile defections into the safety of foreign embassies in China this year. But accounts from refugees who have made their way into China show that this large-scale migration is likely to continue, in what is both a crucial safety valve for the crumbling North Korean economy and a threat to the country's stability. A5

Dangerous Trek in Kashmir
More than 100,000 Hindu pilgrims over the course of a month will hike at least 19 miles, sleep in freezing temperatures above 10,000 feet and brave attacks from Muslim militants all for a glimpse of a nine-foot-tall ice stalagmite. Shaped like a phallus, it is considered the symbol of Lord Shiva, one of Hinduism's three most revered gods. A6

Bolivian President Chosen
Bolivia's Congress ended a presidential tie, voting 84-43 for an American-educated millionaire, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, to lead the country as it confronts economic malaise and growing social unrest. A4

Car Bomb in Spain Kills 2
Two people, including a 6-year-old girl, were killed when a powerful car bomb exploded outside a police barracks in Santa Pola, a southern tourist town. Officials blamed the attack on the Basque separatist group E.T.A. About 25 people were injured, a local official said. (Reuters)

NATIONAL A8-11

Bilingual Teachers Lagging As Immigrants Increase
A wave of new immigrants has left school districts across the country facing a desperate shortage of bilingual teachers. There are 50,000 such teachers in the United States, or one for every 100 students with limited English skills. The number of students with limited English skills has doubled to five million in the last decade. A1

Return of the Mayfly (and How)
In an unheralded and sometimes annoying consequence of cleaner waterways, mayflies are swarming around the Mississippi in greater numbers than they have in half a century. They have to be shoveled from riverside streets and scraped from bridges with snowplows. A1

Teenage Work Rules
Safety advocates want the Bush administration to revise a 60-year-old list of jobs that are off limits to teenagers because of their danger. A8

A Well-Timed Memoir
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, a possible presidential candidate, has sold a memoir of the 107th Congress, raising the possibility of a publicity tour just in time for the 2004 primary season. A10

Threat to Vaccine Maker
The nation's sole producer of anthrax vaccine says it is in financial jeopardy because of an impasse over its contract to supply the drug to the federal government. A10

Panelist Condemns Abuse
Dr. Paul R. McHugh, newly named to the Roman Catholic Church panel looking into sexual abuse by priests, says he is surprised by objections raised to his appointment. A11

Union Leader Steps Down
Steve Rosenthal, the political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. for nearly seven years who helped rejuvenate the political operation of the union, has decided to resign to concentrate on increasing union membership. A11

Amtrak Faults Conductor
A commuter train conductor was wrong to continue making scheduled stops for 20 minutes while a passenger was suffering a heart attack, Amtrak said in a report late Saturday. (AP)

Service for Trapped Miners
Nine miners who spent more than three days in a flooded coal mine 240 feet underground joined hundreds of people at a church service to give thanks for their rescue a week ago. Family, friends and neighbors filled a small church about 100 yards from where the men were trapped for 77 hours at the Quecreek Mine in western Pennsylvania. The miners did not speak during the service, attended by religious leaders from different denominations, but they posed for photos outside with those in attendance. (AP)

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Co-op City Is Evolving Into a Retirement Center
Co-op City in the Bronx is home to nearly 8,000 people of retirement age, most of whom moved in as working people around the time the residential towers went up in 1968 and never moved out. By virtue of their advancing age and increasing numbers, they have managed to transform a dream home for bureaucrats and civil servants into the largest de facto retirement home in the nation. A1

Power Still Out in New Jersey
More than 86,000 residents of central New Jersey sweltered through another scorching day without power as utility crews struggled around the clock to restore lines downed by lightning-studded thunderstorms that had marched across the New York metropolitan area. The lightning strikes knocked out power to nearly 375,000 homes and businesses. B1

Cultural Diversity in Astoria
For half a century, Astoria has been the nucleus of New York City's Greek life. But the Greek hold on the Queens neighborhood has slowly been weakening as successful Greeks leave for other locales. As a result, Middle Easterners, North Africans, Indians, and yes, even Manhattan professionals have been taking their place. B1

Land Swap Uncertain
Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who holds the World Trade Center lease, has an open mind about the city's plan to take over ownership of the site, said his spokesman. The city's proposal calls for trading the land under La Guardia and Kennedy Airports to the Port Authority in exchange for the World Trade Center site. The deal would give the city more control over the redevelopment of lower Manhattan. B1

ARTS E1-8

Earlier Oscar Parties
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has decided to move its annual awards ceremony ahead a month, to late February from late March, beginning in 2004. Some executives say that the move will help big studios by trimming the movie awards season from four months to three, giving smaller films less time to develop a word-of-mouth following among Oscar voters. B1

SPORTS D1-8

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Former Executive Sues Dynegy
A former executive at Dynegy, Bradley P. Farnsworth, said in a lawsuit that Dynegy fired him after he refused to go along with a plan to manipulate profits and losses. Steven Stengel of Dynegy said the accusations were baseless. C1

Ailing ABC Turns to HBO
ABC, the network most in need of attention-getting programming, and HBO, the network that has been generating the most attention, are expected to announce a venture intended to bring HBO shows to ABC. C1

Shift in Priorities for AOL
America Online is preparing its annual release of new software, which one designer called an important step backward. The software will have a renewed focus on chat rooms and other forms of interaction. C1

Buyout Talk at Martha Stewart
Shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia increased Friday after a report of a possible management buyout. A spokesman had no comment, and some investors considered the report unrealistic. C2

Antitrust Steps by Microsoft
The Microsoft Corporation said that it plans to implement certain elements of its antitrust settlement with the Justice Department. A8

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A13

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Policing Wall Street; Brazil's eye on the Amazon; Brent Staples on school vouchers.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REFUGEES (87%); HAMAS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (72%); CITIES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WEATHER (68%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (67%); HIKING (67%); REFERENDUMS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) KASHMIR (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%) CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); TAIWAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); URUGUAY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SPAIN (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



109 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: The Americas Prepare for Trade On a Fast Track 

BYLINE:  By Walter Russell Mead; Walter Russell Mead, author of "Special Providence: American Foreign Policy and How It Changed the World," is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
In a big and badly needed win for the Bush administration, the House and Senate last week gave the president trade-promotion authority. Future trade agreements negotiated through 2007 can only be approved or rejected by Congress as they stand (no amendments allowed), vastly increasing the ability of the administration to negotiate trade deals with foreign nations.
 The bill gave the president virtually everything he wanted. Trade critics dropped amendments that would have given Congress a veto over agreements that might endanger American antidumping rules. Provisions offering greater protection for American workers adversely affected by free trade were curtailed to suit Republicans. 
 Passage of trade-promotion authority contributes to the recent upturn in relations with Europe. Robert Zoellick, the United States trade representative, and his European counterpart, Pascal Lamy, have struggled together to contain an increasingly contentious set of trade irritants -- most recently, European anger over steel-import restrictions imposed by President Bush on March 20. So far, the European Union has resisted pressure to impose draconian sanctions in retaliation; passage of trade-promotion authority makes a trans-Atlantic trade war even less likely.
It will also invigorate the Doha round of negotiations, which aim to liberalize trade among all 144 members of the World Trade Organization. The Doha agenda emphasizes integrating poorer countries into the international system; given that lower wages and other costs are usually critical to the global competitiveness of less developed nations, trade agreements under the Doha rubric may be particularly sensitive in Congress. Trade-promotion authority will make such agreements far more likely.
For now, the new politics of trade may count most in Latin America, now threatened by the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. With Argentina and Brazil engulfed in economic chaos, with continuing unrest in Venezuela, civil war in Colombia, and political instability in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru -- and with both Uruguay and Paraguay now embroiled in the aftereffects of the crises in Brazil and Argentina -- the Bush administration faces an extraordinary set of hemispheric challenges.
Trade-promotion authority is a vital tool for dealing with Latin America's economic problems. The one major Latin economy that has so far escaped a meltdown is Mexico -- which is also the one Latin American country that has a free-trade agreement with the United States. Despite initial complications, Mexican access to United States markets has served to keep foreign investors interested and to keep Mexican factories working even as the rest of the region melts down.
Trade-promotion authority is particularly welcome because the Bush administration has reached something of a deadlock with Argentina and Brazil over their requests for additional assistance from the International Monetary Fund. The political instability in both countries makes it virtually impossible for their governments to accept the tough conditions that the I.M.F. and its guiding force, the United States Treasury Department -- justifiably suspicious after so many failures in the past -- want to put on new money. While free trade won't provide a quick fix for these economies, conclusion of an agreement would offer hope in the long and medium terms.
Even trade-promotion authority may not be enough to get a hemispheric Free Trade Area of the Americas pact done by 2005, as the administration still hopes to do. Consider the orange. Currently, Brazilian orange juice exports to the United States must pay $418 a ton in tariffs, roughly equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the juice. With an estimated 90,000 Florida jobs dependent on citrus, a president who carried that state by 537 votes will not be eager to cut orange-juice tariffs.
However, lack of a full blown Free Trade Area of the Americas won't discourage smaller initiatives and may make them seem more urgent. Last week's legislation reauthorizes the Andean Trade Preference Act, which is intended to wean countries like Bolivia and Colombia off drug exports. A promising agreement with Chile should soon be concluded. Although labor rights issues could complicate matters, an agreement with the Central American republics is likely to move forward now.
There is even speculation that Argentina and Brazil will follow Chile and negotiate bilateral agreements with the United States. Their collapsing economies can no longer hope to build their common market, Mercosur, into a strong regional entity that could negotiate on a more equal basis with the United States. As a result, both countries might want to lock in limited, bilateral agreements with the United States now -- as Argentina and Chile already have with the European Union -- while trusting to the Doha negotiations to pressure the United States to open agricultural markets.
All this leaves the United States looking strong. If the European Union or Japan -- or the poorer countries that make up a large majority of the W.T.O.'s membership -- don't make enough concessions to the United States in the Doha talks, Washington can negotiate favorable bilateral deals with countries eager to gain access to its immense consumer market, which is almost 20 percent of world imports.
Last week's trade bill was also a signal victory for the Republican Party (Bill Clinton failed in three tries to get trade-promotion authority through Congress). Trade negotiations are about horse trading; now Republican officials have the chance to decide what products to push and where to make compromises on trade deals that will affect the future of key industries and states. These efforts will be remembered by corporations when it comes time for campaign contributions.
The bill is a major defeat for free-trade critics (or fair-trade advocates) even though its provisions would pay 65 percent of the health-insurance premiums of workers displaced by free trade. Business interests that lobbied for this law will lobby even harder for actual trade agreements that offer them specific benefits. Failure to block trade promotion authority makes it much harder to block future trade agreements.
With plunging stock markets, rising budget deficits, violence in the Middle East, corporate scandals at home and economic meltdowns in Latin America, the world remains a dark and stormy place for the Bush administration. Nevertheless, trade-promotion authority will give the administration some badly needed traction as it grapples with a global economy that is weakening.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); PERU (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); URUGUAY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



110 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Affleck and Damon Find Real-Life Obstacles to Their Media Venture 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
There is a moment in the movie "The Sum of All Fears," this summer's Tom Clancy spy thriller starring Ben Affleck, when Mr. Affleck's character, a naive agent, realizes that an unforeseen disaster has changed his world, altering his outlook and making him wary. 
 The same might be said of Mr. Affleck and his partners in LivePlanet, the fledgling film-television-Internet venture founded by Mr. Affleck, his best friend, the actor Matt Damon, and the producers Sean Bailey and Chris Moore. 
 LivePlanet, which seeks to integrate the Internet into mainstream entertainment programming, was one of the chosen few Internet-related start-ups to receive venture capital financing last year, in the aftermath of the dot-com disaster. The company also weathered the negative publicity of Mr. Affleck's drinking and gambling problems last year, which provided endless fodder for the tabloids. But last September, LivePlanet's luck seemed to have run out. 
After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, ABC decided to scrap plans to run LivePlanet's ambitious reality television series, "The Runner." The show was to have been a nationwide audience-participation manhunt, in which television viewers could phone in sightings and tips on the whereabouts of the program's contestant-on-the-run or track the target's movements online. If the runner was caught, the person who found him or her could have won up to $1 million. If the runner eluded detection, it was the runner who won the money. 
Since the cancellation of "The Runner," LivePlanet's staff has dwindled from a high of 63, which had included 19 software programmers in Silicon Valley, to 14 employees these days at the company's offices in Santa Monica, Calif. Mr. Affleck and his three partners have spent much of the $12 million investors gave them. And the four have explored splitting up or selling the company -- discussions that at times have tested their friendship. 
Fanning their hopes just now are a contract to produce a second season of the documentary series "Project Greenlight," for HBO; a drama series produced by LivePlanet, "Push, Nevada," that ABC has scheduled for this fall; and a film production deal with the Walt Disney Company that could be announced as soon as this week. But the firm's ups and downs have taught Mr. Affleck and his three partners that success is by no means certain.
"It's been a collectively humbling experience," Mr. Affleck said in an interview last week. 
LivePlanet's executives have come to the same realization that media giants like AOL Time Warner, Bertelsmann and Vivendi Universal have reached with greater financial consequence. While lip-service has been paid to combining film, television and the Internet into a one-stop media shop, compelling content is still difficult to produce and original ideas remain hard to come by. 
Many analysts agree that the long-predicted "convergence" of old and new media will flourish only if broadcast and cable networks are willing to risk ratings for innovation -- a gamble that may be unthinkable in the current economic climate for media companies. 
"The reality is that despite all the noise in the media, more people are online and interested in new forms of television," said Christopher Dixon, a media analyst at UBS Warburg. "The question is how do you create a cultural phenomenon that gets people talking around the water cooler?" 
Until an answer emerges, LivePlanet is relying on more traditional entertainment outlets. That includes the two-year movie deal with Disney that the two companies say is close to being signed. As part of the agreement, Disney gets a right of first refusal to finance or distribute movies that LivePlanet wants to make. 
If making movies for Disney sounds decidedly old-media, LivePlanet's partners explain that they simply do not have the heft to buck the current trend. 
"When you have the chief executive of AOL Time Warner saying on the front page of the newspaper, 'Convergence is dead,' then it makes it pretty tough for a little company like ours; that's why we had to diversify," said Mr. Moore, LivePlanet's chief executive, who previously was the producer of the "American Pie" movies as well as the 1997 film "Good Will Hunting," which starred and was written by Mr. Affleck and Mr. Damon. 
Certainly, Disney seems ready for new ideas, in light of its box-office disappointments. Jerry Bruckheimer, the producer known for his big summer blockbusters, bombed with "Bad Company," the action film starring Anthony Hopkins and Chris Rock. And "The Country Bears," Disney's attempt to capitalize on its theme park attractions, has brought in only an estimated $11.7 million during its first two weeks, through today, tying for last place among new releases.. 
"They look at the business differently, and we want that," Richard Cook, the chairman of Walt Disney Studios, said of LivePlanet. 
Thinking differently is what led to LivePlanet's HBO hit "Project Greenlight," the Emmy-nominated documentary series that follows the winner of an online screenwriting and directing contest as he or she makes a film. LivePlanet is expected to begin accepting contest submissions in September for the second season.
Meanwhile, the Disney deal buys time for LivePlanet to pursue more experimental projects. The company has been forced to curb its early ambitions -- which Mr. Bailey once described as a cross of Turner Broadcasting and Electronic Arts, referring to Ted Turner's television empire and the cultish following among players of Electronic Arts' computer and video game software. 
A case of curtailed fancy is "General Manager," the documentary LivePlanet plans to produce next year for HBO about a minor league baseball team. When Mr. Bailey conceived the idea, he hoped to invest in several teams, perhaps even start a new league, enabling viewers at home and online to run them by popular vote. The concept never took full flight, Mr. Bailey said, because "the big media companies couldn't get their hands around it." 
As now planned, "General Manager" will focus on an existing team -- not yet disclosed -- that has agreed to go along with the idea. The plan is to allow the audience to vote on such moves as naming the starting lineup, benching players and even picking cheerleaders.
Then there is "Push, Nevada." Recently, on a 90-degree afternoon on the set of the series, just north of Los Angeles, Mr. Moore was meeting with Mr. Bailey in his sweltering office, which did not have benefit of air-conditioning. 
The series, scheduled to run on ABC Thursday nights at 9, opposite the popular crime drama "CSI" on CBS, is a drama created by Mr. Bailey and Mr. Affleck. Its story line involves an I.R.S. agent searching for embezzled money in a small town 
Like the ill-fated "Runner," "Push, Nevada" will place a viewer-participation game within the frame of a television show. But unlike "Runner," "Push, Nevada" is not a live event, which proved to be a daunting production challenge, causing friction for LivePlanet and the show's backers at ABC. 
"We learned from that," Mr. Bailey said. 
"Push, Nevada" is more manageable than "The Runner" because it follows a script, he said, which among other benefits makes it easier to integrate clues into the storyline, like phone numbers viewers can call or Web sites they can visit. But the game is only secondary to the plot. The program is meant to fail or succeed on its own dramatic merits -- or lack of them. 
Before "The Runner" was canceled, LivePlanet in some months was spending a combined $750,000 on that series and "Project Greenlight" and their two related Web sites, Mr. Moore said. By contrast the company's monthly operating costs now average $125,000, he said. 
"There was this moment last year when we said to ourselves, 'Are we too early? Are people ready for this?' " Mr. Moore said. "You could like look at this and say, 'We are crazy, chasing after windmills.' " 
The notion set Mr. Bailey and Mr. Moore to laughing, as Mr. Bailey described a Don Quixote scene with the four friends astride donkeys, charging haplessly toward a hazy apparition at the top of a hill. 
"Picture the conversation," Mr. Bailey said, turning to Mr. Moore and pointing skyward. "That looks like a windmill, but maybe it's a bank full of money. Who knows? We're too far away. We can't see it."
After "Runner" was canceled, LivePlanet needed a new source of revenue. Earlier this year, Mr. Moore said, he and his partners approached several large media companies about buying LivePlanet to have a distributor for their programs. "People said it was a genius idea, but no one bit," Mr. Moore said.
So he sought outside financing, talking to investors in this country and abroad. Redpoint Ventures, the Silicon Valley venture capital firm that had originally invested $10 million, was willing to give LivePlanet more money. But Mr. Moore and his partners wanted to expand beyond LivePlanet's original business plan, bymaking traditional movies, for example, eventually leading to the Disney deal. 
But along the way, discouraged, Mr. Moore suggested to his partners, all of whom he has known nearly a decade, that maybe they should split up and each pursue their separate projects. Mr. Damon, in fact, had been spending less time than the other three on LivePlanet projects as he focus on his acting career. Mr. Affleck was also busy and, at times, hard to reach. (He has been spending much of his free time in New York lately, now that he is dating Jennifer Lopez.) And running the company was beginning to wear on Mr. Moore. 
But the partners' professional, as well as personal, lives have long intersected and invariably bring them together. When Mr. Affleck entered a Malibu rehabilitation clinic last summer, for instance, he said Mr. Damon stepped in to promote the beer brewer Samuel Adams, one of the main sponsors of "Project Greenlight." 
And when LivePlanet was in the midst of testy six-month negotiations earlier this year over the rights to future "Project Greenlight" endeavors with Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax, it was Mr. Affleck who defended LivePlanet.
Mr. Weinstein recalled that he had wanted to extend the "Project Greenlight" brand, perhaps into fashion, but that the LivePlanet partners "were protective of something they felt close to." 
As Mr. Affleck remembers it, he himself wanted more control over the type of commercial projects that he and Mr. Damon would attach their names to. "When the line is blurred between perception and reality," Mr. Affleck said, "it wasn't worth it to get fleeced." 
For now at least, the four LivePlanet partners say they have enough cash to run the business for two years and have decided to stick together. "The most selfish answer is we have fun," said Mr. Moore. "It's easier to fight battles in Hollywood together than by yourself." 
Mr. Affleck, pondering this real-life sum of all business fears, added: "If we stick around long enough and convince people we can do these things, we will matter in the new economy. I'd like to slip to the last page to see how it ends. But who knows."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben Affleck, the actor, right, and two of his LivePlanet partners, Chris Moore, left, and Sean Bailey. Right, two scenes from an interactive drama program, "Push, Nevada," produced by LivePlanet and ABC, starring Jim Prufrock. (Clockwise from top right: Randy Shropshire/ABC; Bob Damico/ABC; and Laura Kleinhenz for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Pete Jones, a winner of the chance to direct a film sponsored by LivePlanet, with two young actors in Chicago. (Associated Press)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (82%); VIVENDI (60%); AOL INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LIVEPLANET (CO); DISNEY, WALT, CO; ABC INC; HOME BOX OFFICE 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%); VIV (PAR) (60%); VIV (BIT) (60%); AOL (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (60%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (90%) AFFLECK, BEN; DAMON, MATT; BAILEY, SEAN; MOORE, CHRIS; HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



111 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Policing Wall Street 

 BODY:
The White House and Congress have done an abrupt about-face about corporate malfeasance this summer, belatedly recognizing the need to crack down on financial chicanery in the executive suite. Whether the rush to reform is translated into a new era of stricter law enforcement now depends largely on whether the Securities and Exchange Commission can snap out of the coma it fell into during the first year of the Bush administration. 
 The S.E.C., created in the aftermath of the 1929 market crash to protect the integrity of financial markets, was aptly described as "the investor's advocate" by William O. Douglas, a chairman of the commission in the 1930's before becoming a Supreme Court justice. When energetically managed, it serves both as Wall Street's cop and rule maker, regulating the stock markets and ensuring that companies that sell stock to the public provide accurate and timely financial reports. The commission can, and should, strike fear in the boardroom, as it did in the 1970's when Stanley Sporkin, a hard-charging chief of enforcement, brought high-profile cases against United Brands, Lockheed and Robert Vesco, an international financier. 
 Until the recent wave of corporate abuses, President Bush and his S.E.C. chairman, Harvey Pitt, were singing from the deregulation hymnal and doing their best to weaken the commission. The S.E.C. today is badly in need of an infusion of money and manpower. Its 3,000 staff members represent a growth of 20 percent in the last decade, a time when its workload, by most measures, has more than doubled. The agency has been devastated by high turnover rates. It wasn't until last month -- after the collapse of Enron and WorldCom and all the other corporate disasters -- that Mr. Bush asked Congress for a still-insufficient $100 million increase to the S.E.C.'s budget.
Mr. Pitt, who worked alongside Mr. Sporkin as the S.E.C.'s general counsel but later became a highly paid lawyer for the accounting industry, has presided over a flurry of enforcement activity in reaction to the scandals, but he has been far too timid in addressing some of the systemic problems that led to the betrayal of so many investors. Mr. Pitt has ordered the chief executives of major corporations to certify their companies' financial reports by Aug. 14. That's fine, but it doesn't begin to make up for his lax approach in regulating the practices of Wall Street firms and the accounting industry. 
We continue to believe that Mr. Pitt is ill suited to lead the S.E.C. during these critical days, but if Mr. Bush sticks with him, one measure of Mr. Pitt's leadership will be found in whether he appoints tough regulators to the new accounting oversight board created by Congress.
Mr. Pitt must also strongly support the work of the commission's four operational divisions, all led by capable directors. The corporate finance division, charged with reviewing the filings of 15,000 public companies, is particularly overwhelmed. As the front line in detecting accounting irregularities, it needs a substantial increase in staff. Last year it reviewed only 16 percent of corporate reports it received. 
The market regulation division, which oversees the exchanges and brokers, needs to be more vigorous in fighting Wall Street's glaring conflicts of interest. These involve the corrupt allocation of initial public offering shares and the hyping of stocks by analysts to please banking clients. 
The investment management division regulates all types of investment vehicles. It should tighten oversight of the secretive world of hedge funds and require greater transparency on the part of mutual funds.
The enforcement division investigates securities law violations and can bring civil cases. Its director, Stephen Cutler, is highly respected, and Mr. Pitt must allow him to vigorously pursue all cases, even such sensitive ones as the inquiry into Halliburton's accounting practices during Dick Cheney's tenure as chief executive. The corporate reform law's toughened criminal liabilities on executives who mislead investors will mean little if the S.E.C. fails to pursue such cases or does not refer them to federal prosecutors. 
At a time when more than half of American households are invested in the stock market, and a loss of faith in the integrity of Wall Street is a drag on the economy, it is imperative that the S.E.C. truly act as "the investor's advocate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); SCANDALS (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; EDITORIALS; ETHICS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



112 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
Bush Makes Quick Work of Relaxing

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me. 

 BODY:
President Bush began his day yesterday at dawn on the golf course. He began Saturday on the golf course, too. A weekend earlier, the president played two rounds of 18 holes on the course at Andrews Air Force Base just outside Washington. Over the Fourth of July weekend here at his parents' summer home, the president played twice -- once on Saturday and again on Monday, before returning to the White House for a rocky news conference about his corporate stock dealings.
 Presidents have been playing golf since at least William Howard Taft, but Mr. Bush, unlike Dwight D. Eisenhower, Gerald R. Ford or even Bill Clinton, is not known as a golfer. (He's a gym rat and sub-seven-minute miler and will be on the cover of Runner's World in October.) 
 This tumultuous summer, though, Mr. Bush has been playing golf a lot, with his father and without.
Ken Raynor, the pro at the Cape Arundel Golf Club here who has played with the Bush family for the past quarter century, says the president plays to relax and to forget the mounting pressures of his office, whether it be the economy or the Middle East. "My job is to get him away from all that," Mr. Raynor said this past weekend, between golf games with Bush I and Bush II. "He's got business at hand, and I can sense that. I feel for him."
Sometimes business intrudes on the green, and not always smoothly. Before starting his game yesterday, Mr. Bush, his driver in his left gloved hand, took time to condemn an overnight suicide bombing of a bus in Israel that killed at least nine. "I call upon all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers," Mr. Bush said on the first green of Cape Arundel, at 6:15 a.m. "Thank you. Now watch this drive."
Without the slightest pause, Mr. Bush turned to his game -- and hit his first ball into the rough. In a replay of a favorite Clintonian golfing practice, Mr. Bush then took a mulligan, a free shot, teeing off nicely. The president let out a sigh of relief.
"Hard this early in the morning to loosen up," he said to a group of reporters and cameras recording his every move.
Mr. Bush is not a bad golfer, Mr. Raynor said, although not as good as one of his younger brothers, Jeb, the governor of Florida. Still, teeing off in front of a phalanx of photographers is not easy, and there were suspicions that Mr. Bush played golf twice a weekend earlier in Washington to tune up for his more scrutinized rounds with his father here.
"He struck the ball very consistently," Mr. Raynor said after the president's game here on Saturday. "His practice in Washington must have paid off."
Last weekend, however, Mr. Bush denied such golf performance anxiety, telling reporters at the Andrews course that he was not getting in shape for Kennebunkport but simply "trying to get out of the house."
Like his presidency, Mr. Bush's golf has its roots in family history. Mr. Bush's great-grandfather, George Herbert Walker, was a president of the United States Golfing Association and a benefactor who kept the Cape Arundel club afloat during its difficult World War II days, when 5 of its 18 holes were plowed to grow needed crops.
Mr. Bush's grandfather, Senator Prescott S. Bush, was also president of the golfing association as well as the family's best golfer. Mr. Bush's father has long said that his favorite course is "our little golf club in Maine, Cape Arundel," which became the title of a book about the club by George A. Douglas. Today, there are no fewer than seven photographs of the former president in Cape Arundel's tiny, no-nonsense clubhouse. A picture of the former first lady, Barbara Bush, with women who belong to the club hangs prominently in the ladies' locker room.
Like his father, Mr. Bush is a speedy golfer, and he finished his 18 holes ysterday in a nimble two hours and 14 minutes. But he has never approached the record for aerobic golf held by his father and Mr. Raynor of 18 holes in an astonishing one hour and 24 minutes. Still, watching the Bush group play yesterday was to watch a commotion, with people putting before others had finished -- a practice anathema in a serious game.
"He has two priorities out there, and that is to excel as an athlete and to play quickly," Mr. Raynor said of the president. "Nobody plays as fast as the Bushes like to play."
Mr. Raynor also said Mr. Bush plays golf to spend time with his father, 78, who got off a good drive on the first green on Saturday.
"Let's hear it!" the 43rd president said, indicating that he wanted to listen to some praise for his father's swing.
"Good shot, sir," one member of the press said.
"Make the old boy feel better," the president said approvingly, tooling off in his cart.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The White House Letter column yesterday, about President Bush's passion for golf, misstated the name of the golf group that his great-grandfather George Herbert Walker served as president. It is the United States Golf Association, not Golfing Association. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush during a typically quick round of golf yesterday in Kennebunkport, Me. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TERRORISM (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (63%); ARMED FORCES (57%); AIR FORCES (57%) GOLF 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ISRAEL (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



113 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Credit Offerings During the Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, a four-week bill being auctioned tomorrow and 5-year and 10-year notes being auctioned tomorrow and Wednesday, respectively.
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.58 percent, on the six-month issue 1.55 percent and on the four-week bill 1.63 percent. In when-issued trading, the 5-year note was offered at a price to yield 3.29 percent, and the 10-year note 4.32 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 

TAX-EXEMPT

MONDAY
Richardson Independent School District, Tex., $60 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TUESDAY
Los Angeles, $321.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Clark County, Wash., Public Utility District, $50 million of electric and water bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Dallas, $195 million of waterworks and sewer system revenue refunding bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Duluth Economic Development Authority, Minn., $55 million of health care facilities revenue bonds for St. Luke's Hospital of Duluth Obligated Group. Ziegler Capital Markets Group.
Illinois, $400 million of general obligation refunding bonds for Illinois First series of August 2002. Morgan Stanley.
Maryland Health and Higher Education, $69.7 million of debt securities for Frederick Memorial Hospital. UBS PaineWebber.
Massachusetts, $1 billion of general obligation bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, $1.2 billion of dedicated tax bond series 2002A. Morgan Stanley.
Michigan Municipal Bond Authority, $274 million of debt securities. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Ohio Water Development, $97.7 million of pure water refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Salt Lake City, $50 million of general obligation bonds and refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Texas Turnpike, First Tier, $1.1 billion of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Texas Turnpike, Second Tier, $400 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.

TAXABLE

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Monsanto, $750 to $1 billion to pay down short-term debt. Baa1/A/---. J. P. Morgan Securities and Salomon Smith Barney.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Fitch Ratings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (62%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (54%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); MONSANTO CO (52%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); MON (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (62%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002 



114 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
A Camera-Toting Odysseus Looks Into the Face of Pain

BYLINE:  By Margarett Loke 

 BODY:
In person the Brazilian documentary photographer Sebastiao Salgado is genial and unassuming. He keeps himself trim and his head shaved. He delivers rapid-fire accented English, as if he can hardly contain his immense energies.
 Mr. Salgado chooses epic subjects and maintains an Odyssean traveling schedule. For his "Migrations" project in the 1990's he traveled to 40 countries over six years. He has not spent much time in Paris, his home since 1969. "That," he said in an interview, "is a problem for me." He and his wife, Lelia Wanick Salgado, have two sons, now in their 20's. "I did not see my sons grow," he acknowledged, "but I am very close to my sons." He rushed on: "I must tell you, the things that I shoot don't happen in my town. I am a photographer. I must do reportage." 
 That compulsion has resulted in compelling images of famine victims in the Sahel region of Africa, of manual workers around the world and of the vast number of people displaced by natural and man-made disasters. Mr. Salgado's latest work is of the global effort to eradicate poliomyelitis. A selection of those pictures is on view at the Burden Gallery, 20 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, through Aug. 16. 
His documentary projects have a way of growing out of previous work. His extraordinary images of workers at the Serra Pelada gold mine in Brazil -- evocative of both Pieter Brueghel and Cecil B. DeMille -- became part of his opus on workers. While photographing them, he noted the never-ending migration of peoples. 
But he failed to spot the polio story earlier, he said, because he had been inured to the sight of polio victims. In Brazil, where he was born in 1944, "there were many kids with polio," he said. "Polio was a natural thing." When he was in India photographing workers, he again matter-of-factly took in the sight of people stricken with polio.
His interest was finally aroused last year after the World Health Organization approached him with the idea of documenting the anti-polio campaign. He learned that the Global Polio Eradication Initiative -- created in 1988 and spearheaded by WHO, Rotary International, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Unicef -- was working to make the world polio-free by 2005. But it had a $275 million fund gap. 
Mr. Salgado said he immediately prepared to go to the Indian subcontinent and to Africa to photograph polio immunization campaigns. As he had done in the past, he secured assignments from a number of magazines in the United States and Europe, including Vanity Fair, for his year-long project. The only way for him to photograph in-depth, Mr. Salgado said, was to work with humanitarian organizations; for the polio project he was a Unicef special representative. That way, he said, "you are much more close to the problem." 
Many of his pictures at the gallery and on the polio project's Web site (www.endofpolio.org/home.html) are plainly promotional: children given the oral vaccine; health workers announcing their arrival and going about their work, and so on. 
A large number of images are strikingly beautiful. There is the close-up of a Sudanese's somber face, a cloudy sky and a gentle horizon in the background, as an infant is given an oral vaccine. There is the astonishing picture of adults and children at a cattle camp in Rumbek County in Sudan walking toward a team of polio immunizers. Behind the slim, almost fragile advancing figures is a long row of tall, sturdy trees.
Some of the pictures are tinged with the low-keyed humor that Mr. Salgado shows in person. A woman in Sudan, for instance, is shown scrunching her face in sympathy, as if the child before her is being given an injection instead of a painless oral dose of vaccine.
To draw attention to the world's less fortunate groups, Mr. Salgado does not simply take his characteristically atmospheric, luminous and elegant pictures. With the publication of a book of his photographs or the opening of an exhibition, he gives interviews and lectures, talks to members of the audience and treats his personal life as an extension of his work.
"The kind of photography that I do is not separate from my way of life," he said. "It is not separate from the people that I photograph. It is not separate from the organizations I work with."
Mr. Salgado said he has been involved in social movements all his life. As a college student in Brazil in the 1960's he was active in leftist movements. After a coup d'etat in 1964, he recalled, "we were fighting against a big repression." In 1969 he and his wife fled to Paris, where they became, as he once put it, "part migrant, part refugee, part exile."
Trained as an economist, Mr. Salgado worked for the London-based International Coffee Organization. In Paris a friend taught him the rudiments of photography. He borrowed his wife's camera and in a matter of weeks, he said, photography invaded his life. As part of his job, he visited the coffee-producing countries in Africa. Photographing there was such an incredible pleasure, he said, that he decided in March 1973 to become a full-time freelance photographer.
His first big story three months later was famine in the Niger and Upper Volta. He worked with Catholic and Protestant relief organizations, he said. His pictures were sent to news organizations and were also used to raise money to bring food and medicine to those blighted areas.
Mr. Salgado has seen and photographed many of the world's miseries. The "Migrations" project was especially discouraging, he said. "What I saw was not very brilliant for us," he observed. "I lose a lot of trust in our behavior. I saw many terrible things." But, he said, "I have a big hope." 
Over the years Mr. Salgado has made frequent trips to South America. After civilian rule returned to Brazil in 1985, and his Brazilian passport was restored to him, he has visited there regularly. 
He was born within the Atlantic Forest, a rain forest reduced to a fraction of its former size. Near Mr. Salgado's birthplace a large tract of forest has been cut down. In 1998 he and his wife created Instituto Terra (www.institutoterra.org), which plans to reforest the area with native species. It also hopes to become a leading environmental education center in Brazil. 
"For me," said Mr. Salgado, "if there is a God, the God for me is the instinct for survival of human beings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sebastiao Salgado's image of a Sudanese child receiving polio vaccine. (Sebastiao Salgado/Amazonas Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VACCINES (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); FAMINE (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%) PHOTOGRAPHY; POLIOMYELITIS 

PERSON: LOKE, MARGARETT; SALGADO, SEBASTIAO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



115 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's Market Falls as Ties With Beijing Worsen 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Taiwan's stock market fell sharply today in response to deteriorating relations with China, but the dispute is unlikely to affect either side's economy or American companies and consumers unless it becomes much more serious, corporate executives and economists said here today.
 A speech on Saturday by President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan, who described China and Taiwan as separate countries and endorsed legislation allowing referendums on issues including Taiwan's sovereign status, provoked an angry response today from Beijing, in a confrontation that frightened shareholders. 
 Share prices began tumbling at the opening today and continued falling when Beijing denounced the speech just before noon as "a brazen provocation." Taiwan's benchmark stock index closed down 5.8 percent. Trading limits here prevent each company's shares from falling more than 7 percent in a single day. 
"You could see today everyone wanted to sell shares," said Margaret Lin, a fund manager at the Truswell Securities Investment Trust Company here. 
Chinese officials clearly expected the market effect in Taiwan of their criticisms and couched their remarks in terms that would appeal to business executives, who tend to be the strongest advocates of closer integration with the mainland.
"The ramifications will be felt by Taiwan's economy, and the damage will be sustained by the personal interests of Taiwan compatriots," said Li Wei-yi, the spokesman for the Taiwan Affairs Office of China's State Council, at a hastily convened news conference in Beijing. "This will lead Taiwan toward disaster."
While the comments from Beijing and Taipei continue a decades-long political divide, the economies of Taiwan and China are increasingly intertwined, with at least 500,000 of Taiwan's 23 million people now living on the mainland.
Complex webs of technology companies in particular now assemble components and computers on both sides of the Taiwan Strait for all of the big American computer vendors, especially Dell. They have turned Taiwan and China together into the world's largest producers of everything from certain desktop computer parts to notebook computers.
Business leaders pointed out that previous verbal skirmishes in 1996 and 1999 have had little effect on factory production or foreign investment, and said that the current confrontation also does not yet pose a serious problem.
"Fundamentally, I don't think really it is, unless things get worse," said Frank Huang, the chairman of the Taipei Computer Association and the chairman of Power Chip, Taiwan's third-largest manufacturer of computer chips.
But he added that with the slowing American economy already affecting chip demand, "this is not the best time for what Chen Shui-bian said -- it's not helping."
Richard Vuylsteke, the executive director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei, said that the group's members were not alarmed. "People are kind of used to a lot of rhetoric on both sides," he said. "Basically for us, it's business as usual."
The New Taiwan dollar, the currency here, slipped only as much as 0.7 percent today, to 33.95 New Taiwan dollars to the United States dollar, after the central bank spent an undisclosed sum of United States dollars to buy its currency. The central bank is in a strong position to buttress the currency because it has been intervening heavily in recent weeks to prevent the New Taiwan dollar from appreciating quickly.
Until today, there had been upward pressure on the Taiwanese currency, which would sap the competitiveness of Taiwanese exports, as Asian stocks held up better than American and European equities.
A few Chinese companies' stocks were also down today, notably businesses in Xiamen, a large port near southern Taiwan that stands to benefit if China and Taiwan ever allow direct shipping routes and flights. But markets in China mostly shrugged off the hostile words being exchanged, as China's economy is not only larger than Taiwan's but also viewed as much less vulnerable to disruption if an actual crisis were to occur.
Yet China's export sector has prospered even as much of the rest of the economy has stagnated, notably state-owned enterprises that still dominate many older industries. China needs a healthy computer industry in Taiwan as much as the United States does, said Peter Kurz, the chief executive of the Insight Pacific Investment Research, a consulting firm here.
"The United States is dependent on it, but China is dependent on it as well," he said.
Fearing China's growing economic importance within Taiwan, President Chen urged Taiwanese businesses last week to invest more in Southeast Asia instead of China. The recent trend has been quite the opposite, and China, seeing President Chen's concern, is unlikely to punish or restrict the mainland operations of Taiwanese technology companies, Mr. Kurz said, adding that "China realizes that enticing businesses is the most effective way of winning the hearts and minds of the Taiwanese."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Political Divide"Recent critical verbal exchanges between Taiwan and China have had ill effects on Taiwan's stock market and currency. Graph tracks the taiwan stock exchange index and taiwan currency (Taiwan dollars to the dollar) from Jan.-Aug. Scale is inverted to show Taiwan dollar's decline (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (86%); COMPUTER CHIPS (85%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (85%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BONDS (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (61%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); REFERENDUMS (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT TRUST CO (69%); COMPUTER ASSOCIATION (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



116 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Corporate Apartments: A Real Home on the Road

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN GREGORY 

 BODY:
Karen Conner, a financial manager for the DuPont Company, is away on business in Columbus, Ohio, this week.
 And next week. 
 And next month.
And next year.
In fact, Ms.Conner expects her mission in Columbus to last at least two years, but she has no plans to uproot herself from her lifelong hometown of Wilmington, Del., where DuPont has its headquarters.
Rather than selling the house she bought in 2000 and moving to Columbus, Ms. Conner has chosen a temporary, albeit long-term, living arrangement that is not quite a hotel or a rented apartment. Rather, it is a hybrid of the two that has become increasingly popular with business travelers on extended assignments: a fully furnished corporate apartment. 
"I just got my house put together the way I want it, and I didn't really like the idea of having to rip it apart," said Ms. Conner, who is overseeing the financial integration of a company DuPont recently acquired in Columbus. "There was a major strain gone in not having to move furniture, unpack, set up everything, get utilities established. Literally all I had to do was pack my suitcases, box up a couple of personal things and my cats, and I'm here. This is probably one of the easiest ways you can relocate.'
Her new, two-bedroom home away from home is one of roughly 71,000 corporate apartments across the United States, a number that has shot up significantly since the mid-1990's as more lodging providers seek a piece of the lucrative business travel market, said Mark Skinner, a partner with the Atlanta-based Highland Group, which tracks the hotel and lodging industry.
Corporate apartments are like hotels in some ways. They are furnished, and they often offer amenities like maid service, a full-time concierge and continental breakfast. Guests need only bring what they would ordinarily take on any business trip: clothes and toiletries.
But unlike hotel rooms, most corporate apartments are just that -- apartments in standard residential complexes that are leased by third-party companies and subleased to business travelers, typically for two or three months. The units are indistinguishable from, and frequently next door to, traditional rental apartments.
Life in such residential surroundings takes much of the sense of dislocation out of being away, say business travelers like Michael Emanuelo, who has a home and family in Atlanta but has spent most of the last six months traveling on behalf of his company, Cbeyond Communications, which provides telephone and broadband Internet services.
"You got a kitchen, a refrigerator, a living room," said Mr. Emanuelo, who recently wrapped up a month living in a corporate apartment in Dallas. "It's better than sitting on a bed in a hotel room watching TV. I just got my key, and it was like my own home."
Mr. Emanuelo, who paid $90 a night for a one-bedroom apartment that came with daily maid service, is one of an estimated 64,000 people who will live in a corporate apartment sometime this year, Mr. Skinner said.
Corporate apartments have their roots in the 1970's, when providers of standard rental dwellings like Oakwood Worldwide, based in Los Angeles, began marketing furnished apartments to businesses like movie studios and film production companies that frequently employed visiting, temporary workers.
Since then, the number of corporate apartment units nationwide has grown steadily, peaking in 2000 at more than 85,000, Mr. Skinner said.
That figure fell 14 percent last year and is expected to sink another 3 percent this year as a result of the sputtering economy. The Highland Group says it expects significant growth in inventory in 2003, but did not project a percentage figure.
Unlike the hotel industry, however, corporate-apartment companies are able to absorb such dips in demand because their contracts typically allow them to terminate leases after a negotiated minimum period. Such flexibility allows them to avoid much of the pressure that hotels face to discount rates in order to fill their fixed inventory of rooms in lean times.
Last year, for example, corporate-apartment providers were able to maintain occupancy levels of about 90 percent despite the faltering economy, while hotels could fill only about 60 percent of their rooms, according to a Highland Group study.
The report also found that many hotel chains favored by business travelers charged on average $42 more a night than the median rate corporate apartments were asking last year. Extended-stay hotels also came in on average $14 higher a night than corporate apartments.
Over the course of a two-month stay, or in Ms. Conner's case two years, such a difference can mean considerable savings.
"When we looked at the financial situation, it really made more sense for me to come and get set up in a corporate apartment," said Ms. Conner, whose rent, which includes utilities and rental furniture, comes out to $66 a day. "It's really quite economical."
The hotels aren't exactly quaking in their boots, however. John A. Fox, an industry analyst with PKF Consulting in New York, notes that hotel rooms outnumber corporate apartments 60 to 1, making a mass defection of business travelers improbable.
"It's a phenomenon that has certainly been increasing in size substantially in the past few years, but it's still a relatively small number of units," Mr. Fox said. "If you look at the traditional hotel market, only a very small percentage of travelers are interested in that kind of long-term stay. It doesn't provide a tremendous threat."
Many who do switch, though, welcome the change of pace. "I had close to four years of living out of a suitcase in a hotel, and that gets old," said Tom Bergeron, who lives in Connecticut but frequently journeys to Los Angeles where he hosts two television shows. Before moving into a corporate apartment last October, Mr. Bergeron said, he grew increasingly impatient with hotel amenities like valet parking. "It got to the point at the hotel where even the little things that most people would love to have were driving me crazy," he said.
Mr. Bergeron's employers, King World and Vin Di Bona Productions, now split his $3,600-a-month rent on a two-bedroom corporate apartment near the beach in Santa Monica. Though he normally spends just three days a week there, Mr. Bergeron recently stuck around for an entire month. "I just hit the grocery store on my way from the airport, throw some things in the fridge, and I'm set. I can make my own coffee in the morning, do my own laundry. I mean it sounds silly but when you're away as much as I have to be, it's that kind of stuff that makes you feel like you're almost at home."
Ms. Conner has tried to maker her apartment in Columbus more homelike by bringing a "care package of personal items from Wilmington, including a pillow, a toaster, potholders and a wicker basket for her place mats. Her cats have their beloved "kitty condo," and she has stocked the shelves with many of her favorite books and CD's. She has also put up pictures of her friends and family to help fend off loneliness, she says.
So has Mr. Bergeron. "The most important things are pictures of my wife and girls, and that's the first thing I see when I wake up in the morning," he said. "They just sort of place me. Business travelers especially can get to feeling like, 'Who am I again?' You sort of fall outside of yourself unless you have something to remind you of your connections."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Conner, a financial manager for the DuPont Company, just after she moved into a two-bedroom corporate apartment in Columbus, Ohio. (Matt Sullivan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (74%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); BROADBAND (50%) HOUSING; CORPORATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: GREGORY, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



117 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: To Encourage Recovery, Encourage Investors 

BYLINE:  By Muriel Siebert; Muriel Siebert, chairwoman and chief executive of Siebert Financial Corp., was superintendent of banking for New York State from 1977 to 1982.

 BODY:
The gravity of the crisis in our financial markets cannot be overstated. Not only have investors lost significant assets, but they have also lost their faith in the integrity of the system. Solving these problems will take a commitment by our government and society equal to the severity of the situation.
 Part of the process is already under way. Confidence in the stock market -- which remains volatile -- has recovered somewhat since former executives of Adelphia and WorldCom were led away in handcuffs and strong new legislation on corporate governance was signed into law by President Bush. Confidence may be further strengthened as chief executives certify their financial results, as the Securities and Exchange Commission has required them to do by Aug. 14. 
 Unfortunately, restoration of confidence alone will not be enough. Even if we jail all those responsible for the recent debacle and somehow recover all the money they misappropriated, it will do little to replace the more than $7 trillion in wealth that has been lost since March 2000. Many Americans have seen their nest eggs devastated. For our system to recover, small investors must see that the government takes their plight seriously and recognizes the need for relief. We must quickly give individual investors a chance to rebuild their portfolios and incentives to return to -- and thus preserve -- our capital markets.
The most effective way to meet these objectives would be to double for three to five years the amount that investors can put into their 401(k) plans and individual retirement accounts. Currently individuals can contribute $3,000 annually to their I.R.A.'s and $11,000 annually to their 401(k) plans. These limits were increased slightly last year. Doubling them would benefit individual investors in several ways, providing additional income tax deductions and replenishing their tax-deferred portfolios.
To encourage participation in the program, investors would be able to reach the new maximum by placing stocks, bonds and mutual funds in their retirement accounts as well as cash. With additional assets set aside, participants will be well positioned to benefit from recovering stock prices and higher interest rates. The only cost to the government would be the loss of tax revenues on the additional income diverted into 401(k) plans and I.R.A.'s. This is a small price to pay to give so many people the chance to help themselves.
Some might question how willing individual investors will be to put additional funds in equities, given the current uncertainty in the stock market. And investors may well decide on a more balanced approach in the future, dividing their holdings among stocks and bonds. Longer term, however, history suggests that equities are the better investment: returns are higher than the alternatives. Whatever decisions investors make, it will only strengthen the system by which our government and corporations raise money to pay for expansion.
Aside from the remedial aspects of this plan, there is broader justification for its implementation. Without such help, the first generation of baby boomers will likely hit 65 underfunded for retirement, placing more political pressure to increase benefits in a Social Security system already facing a difficult future.
This aftershock of the current crisis is one we must move to prevent now, while we still can. Otherwise we may find ourselves still cursing today's business scoundrels decades from now.
The trauma has put our capital markets in grave danger. Coupled with stiff jail terms and disgorgement of ill-gotten gains for those who caused this crisis, this proposal can help put our markets back on sound footing. It can also help a generation of Americans feel more confident about their plans for a secure retirement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MISAPPROPRIATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); INCOME TAX (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) SIEBERT, MURIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



118 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: The Port Authority's Role in the World Trade Center 

BYLINE:  By Richard C. Leone; Richard C. Leone is president of the Century Foundation and former chairman of the Port Authority.

 BODY:
The debate about rebuilding on the site of the World Trade Center has taken a new turn since the design options presented two weeks ago were greeted with disappointment. State and local officials said the plans were just a starting point. But the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey -- which built the World Trade Center, owns the site, and has a decisive voice in what happens -- has insisted that the redevelopment of the site generate revenues comparable to those produced by the World Trade Center. Now, proposals are emerging that would remove the Port Authority and its financial requirements from the process altogether -- by trading La Guardia and Kennedy airports, which are owned by the city, to the authority in exchange for the World Trade Center site -- with redevelopment reassigned, perhaps, to new city-state agency. 
 There are many reasons for the effort to push the Port Authority out, but one may be the state of the agency itself. In its heyday, it was considered the most effective and professional public agency in the country. While building bridges, tunnels, and airports, Port Authority executives like Austin Tobin won virtually every fight they took on, including those with the more famous Robert Moses. The agency was a big-time operator with a long-term perspective: the original single span of the George Washington Bridge, underutilized at first, was designed not only to support the current second level, but has the strength for even a third. 
 It was natural for the Rockefellers to turn to the Port Authority to serve as the key player in reviving the flagging economic fortunes of downtown Manhattan in the 1960's. The authority had money, patience and expertise; it could plan ahead a dozen years as politicians could not; it didn't have to worry about next quarter's results; and it had built up a reservoir of public and media confidence in its ability to get the job done. New Jersey went along with the World Trade Center in exchange for a Port Authority takeover of what now is called the PATH system. The deal benefited both states, although neither the PATH, which loses over $150 million a year, nor the World Trade Center, which lost money for the first 10 years of its existence, was a particularly good financial fit for the authority.
In the end, though, the World Trade Center served the public purpose of reviving downtown. And while the buildings themselves generated architectural controversy, they did become global symbols of the city. Now, the events of Sept. 11 have left a void that goes beyond the empty physical space. We seem to be suffering from both a lack of imagination and a lack of confidence in the public sector's ability to follow through on the grand scale required.
The Port Authority is not what it was four decades ago. Robert Moses and Austin Tobin would seem hopelessly overbearing in the current environment, in which community engagement and transparency are necessary and desired. The special sensitivity of a site where so many died also restricts what might be done. 
The character of the authority has changed, too. For decades, governors of New York and New Jersey complained about the authority's independence. Now, the governors have taken it over; the formerly professional staff has been diluted by patronage employees from both states. Today the agency is ruled by reliable political allies of the governors, former lieutenants and campaign fund-raisers. Rather than functioning as an independent force for the interests of the region, it is more often just a place where bistate interests are brokered. But the building of projects like airports, bridges, tunnels and harbors is hardly ever a result of routine politics. Elected officials are notoriously reluctant to choose sides, lead fights and see projects through.
The final plan for the World Trade Center site should not be driven by the financial requirements of any agency or the patronage needs of any political leader. It should shaped by a body independent enough to pursue our common interest in creating something lasting. The architects, engineers and construction firms that will actually rebuild downtown need a client with power, patience, professionalism, political skills and courage. The Port Authority would have to be reformed to fit that profile again -- a scenario not very likely in the current political climate. It's not that the agency is worse than other public bodies in the region; it's just that it has been remade into a routine arm of government.
Only the governors and Mayor Michael Bloomberg can change this situation. They must decide that they actually want the Port Authority -- or any new development body for the World Trade Center site -- to have enough independence and insulation from politics to rise above the ordinary and fulfill the hopes of so many. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PATRONAGE 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: LEONE, RICHARD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



119 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Growth Slow, Report Shows 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The service sector grew for a sixth consecutive month in July, but the pace of expansion slowed, according to a report released yesterday by an industry group.
 The group, the Institute for Supply Management, said its monthly nonmanufacturing index fell to 53.1 in July, the lowest since January,from 57.2 in June, the second consecutive month the index has fallen. The figure was below forecasts for a drop to 54.6. 
 A number above 50 indicates expansion in the sector that accounts for about 80 percent of the economy and includes everything from legal help to retailing and construction. 
"It doesn't look like things are going to turn around in terms of faster growth, significantly faster growth, until maybe close to the end of the year," said Ralph Kauffman, who directs the survey for the institute.
The institute, formerly called the National Association of Purchasing Management, compiles its diffusion index by surveying more than 370 purchasing executives in more than 60 service industries once a month. The responses reflect the change in the current month with the previous month. 
 The drop in the service-sector data came after the institute's manufacturing index last week showed that growth in the sector nearly stalled in July.
In one sign that growth in the service sector may slow further, the new orders index, a gauge of demand, fell to 52.6 in July from 56.9 in June. Survey respondents said that while the economy continued to improve, the outlook remained cautious through the end of the year. 
The report said the pace of layoffs slowed slightly as the institute's employment index rose to 45.8 in July from 44.3 in June, but it was still the 17th consecutive month of job losses. 
A second report released yesterday said that announcements of job cuts fell to the lowest level in 14 months in July, in a month in which 6,000 jobs were created. 
American companies announced 80,966 layoffs in July, down from 94,766 in June, a 15 percent drop, according to the report by the employment research firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. 
"While it is a positive sign that job cuts have slowed so significantly, the news is weakened by the fact that the economy seems to be in a no-growth state," the chief executive of Challenger Gray, John A. Challenger, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); JOB CREATION (63%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SERVICE INDUSTRIES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



120 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: If You Can't Stand the Heat, Get Out of the Suit 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY 

 BODY:
It is a little-known fact of social science that, above a certain temperature, the will to be fashionable fails. Experts are divided about the point on the thermometer where this phenomenon sets in, but after a string of days with temperatures in the 90's, even New York's hard-core fashionable tossed over their Edmundo Castillos last week for flip-flops and switched into clothes that made them look as if they were planning to mow the lawn.
 In truth, this is a look that already enjoys a great deal of local currency, most likely as a reflection of the looser approach a majority of Americans now take to personal presentation. The days of a hat and gloves for town are long gone. To get an idea of how long, one might consult Libby Vogel, a Brooklynite whose recall of New York in the doldrums seven decades ago remains remarkably clear. 
 During the summer of 1929, when Mrs. Vogel was being courted by her future husband, the typical costume for young women was a test of endurance. "You had to have very good clothing if you were keeping company," Mrs. Vogel said the other day. A bra, a slip, a pair of gloves and a hat were de rigueur for proper young women regardless of what the mercury read. For an evening out, Mrs. Vogel once wore a three-piece long-sleeve dinner suit of chocolate silk chiffon. "Nobody, but nobody" went without stockings, she said as the temperature in Brooklyn Heights crept past 95 and those who braved the searing sidewalks did so wearing almost nothing at all.
The situation was the same all over town. The sartorial inventiveness for which New Yorkers are justly famous has not been abandoned, yet overwhelmingly the urban look of this late summer is assembled from clothes that would not be out of place on "Survivor." Whether in Harlem or Chelsea or Williamsburg, on the Lower East Side or upper Madison Avenue, New York's dog days uniform is a pair of shorts at midcalf length, a tank top and a pair of rubber flip-flops, for men as well as women. It says something about changes in what it means to be a city dweller that -- far from wearing the structured two-tone spectator shoes of Mrs. Vogel's 1920's -- the footwear of the moment is a flat rubber thong first imported from Hawaii in the 50's by surfers and G.I.'s.
Why not? Isn't New York largely made up of islands anyhow, both real and conceptual? Metaphors of the melting pot, the salad bowl and the gorgeous mosaic are fine as far as they go. But another figure may be useful as New York increasingly comes to resemble a cultural archipelago. In the insular Caribbean reaches of Crown Heights, for instance, many people are wearing their dreadlocks in more extravagant branches and fountains than ever before, and their trousers with the waistbands at levels that flout gravity. On B-boy-friendly Nostrand Avenue, the locals now get themselves up in Brobdingnagian Yankees caps worn atop overlapping layers of nylon do-rags.
On the privileged reaches of upper Madison Avenue, the glossy blondes with the beautifully tousled $400 Frederic Fekkai haircuts are now accessorizing with parasols, their dermatologists will be pleased to know. In parts of central Harlem, bootleg Gucci-logo fabrics are now much in use as insets customizing Timberland boots. In the central Harlem area called Little Africa, the vendors dress with an extravagance that calls to mind coastal places like the Iles Tristao or the Ile de Goree.
"This is nothing so unusual," said Aminata Kadeye, a hairdresser on 125th Street who was wearing robes of neon-yellow kente cloth and a voluminous head wrap in acid green. The day's heat was fierce enough for Ms. Kadeye to move her stool onto the sidewalk, busily plaiting a customer's hair into minibraids colored the frosted blond tones that Beyonce Knowles, as Foxxy Cleopatra, has brought into vogue.
In the artist-intensive enclaves of Greenpoint, young women are now wearing their skirts atop trousers the way the scenemakers in Tokyo's Shibuya do, and are again sporting gas-jockey shirts with "Bob" embroidered above the shirt pocket, the way they did before the dot-com boom. "Once the economy went bust, everyone stopped wearing Prada and Gucci and started dressing the way I did when I was in seventh grade," Mark Van de Walle, a writer who lives in Williamsburg, said, meaning T-shirts and pinwale corduroys.
In the East Village, the revivals of the moment are the modishly scalped haircut dubbed the Fauxhawk and the spiked and dyed haircuts of rocker girls from the 1980's. (Think Bangles or Go-Go's or Pat Benatar.) "The look is punk rocker cowboy Roman sports," Suzanne Ethier, a downtown boutique owner, said on Wednesday. Ms. Ethier is one of the few New Yorkers who dress not for the weather but for a daily improvised game of self-invention. This steamy afternoon she had her rooster-comb hair and side curls tucked under a straw Stetson and was wearing 70's gym shorts, a fat naval belt with soccer stirrup socks and a pair of platform sandals she referred to as Romanesque. Her square-dance shirt was cropped to show off an elaborate tattoo that read "Jesus Died for Somebody's Sins but Not Mine."
"Society," Thomas Carlyle observed in the 19th century, "which the more I think of it astonishes me the more, is founded on cloth." Manhattan society, which the more one thinks of it astonishes one the more, is increasingly founded on no cloth at all. And few neighborhoods illustrate that better than Chelsea, where some people are so heavily armored in muscle that clothes can sometimes seem beside the point.
"There is definitely the gay ghetto stereotype of the muscle queen in Chelsea, but that stereotype is being broken," said Jesus Echezuria, a salesman at a popular Chelsea men's wear shop called Nasty Pig. Mr. Echezuria was referring to a group of men whose calendars are often marked in steroid cycles and for whom "liposculpting" and "abdominal etching" are by no means alien terms. If, however, the stereotype of Chelsea as a magnet for such men is dated, you couldn't tell it from the volume of cartoon action figures strutting the streets on a torrid Saturday night.
There was one place in recent days that called to mind distant summers when a New York man might be turned out in a well-cut suit and a straw hat, a time when rubber sandals were something one saw mainly in National Geographic picture spreads. It was on the steps of the Angelika theater on West Houston Street, and the man was an apparition. His white linen trousers were creased to a knife-edge. His white cashmere turtleneck set off a tan the color of an aged copper coin. His shoes had the softly buffed shine that Bill Blass used to say was the mark of a gent. The anachronism in question was the legendary fashion plate and Hollywood producer Robert Evans, and as it happened, he had just come from seeing "The Kid Stays in the Picture," a documentary about himself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tropical style on the islands of New York: midriff-baring halters, a floaty skirt and the flip-flops that are the season's signature.; Sneakers, shorts worn at midcalf and a T-shirt worn barely at all.; Breeze-catching ruffles and a head wrap to beat the sun. Dakar chic: cool, cosmopolitan influences of West Africa on 125th Street.; Overdressed for even a casual Friday when the mercury is boiling.; As temperatures got higher, hats got bigger to keep New Yorkers cool. (Monika Graff for The New York Times); (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (89%); WOMEN (89%); THERMAL SENSORS (78%); CITIES (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CITY LIFE (69%) APPAREL 

PERSON: TREBAY, GUY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



121 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: South America's Troubled Economies 

 BODY:
For a group that came into office pledging to make ties with Latin America a priority, the Bush administration has managed to convey the opposite impression in recent months, just as the region's economic plight has worsened. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, who has contributed to the bruised relations, can help repair some of the damage this week as he travels through South America.
 Before Mr. O'Neill's departure over the weekend, the administration announced that it would use $1.5 billion in Treasury funds as a bridge loan to shore up Uruguay, whose economy has been clobbered by neighboring Argentina's financial meltdown. This was a welcome departure from the administration's past opposition to such bailouts. 
 Mr. O'Neill, whose diplomatic skills are more than a little shaky, was on his best behavior yesterday in Brazil. He lauded President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's economic policies. Last week Mr. O'Neill roiled Brazil's currency, the real, by saying he would be wary of supporting any new financial aid packages for South American countries for fear that the aid may end up in Swiss bank accounts. 
President Cardoso has instituted sound economic reforms since taking office in 1995. But the possibility that a leftist opposition candidate, Luiz Inacio da Silva, will win the October presidential election, coupled with Argentina's default last year of its $141 billion public debt, have left foreign banks and investors skittish about Brazil.
The resulting erosion in the real's value and a credit crunch afflicting Brazilian companies have raised fears about Brazil's ability to service its $256 billion public debt. This is more a crisis of confidence than of economic fundamentals, and the Bush administration and the International Monetary Fund can still address the former in order to prevent the latter. Brazil deserves an immediate vote of confidence, in the form of expanded I.M.F. support. Today Mr. O'Neill is in Argentina, which desperately awaits its own I.M.F. aid package. That country has mostly itself to blame, but the transitional government of Eduardo Duhalde has taken some steps to address lenders' concerns. Mr. O'Neill should push the Argentine government and the I.M.F. to come to terms soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TRENDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LATIN AMERICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-URUGUAY; BRAZIL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (52%) O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); URUGUAY (93%) LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; URUGUAY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



122 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Shares Plunge As Interpublic Delays Report On Earnings

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER with ALLISON FASS 

 BODY:
The Interpublic Group of Companies, among the world's largest advertising agency concerns, said yesterday that it would postpone the release of its second-quarter earnings report by a week, sending the company's stock tumbling nearly 24 percent.
 A statement issued by the company said that the earnings report was being postponed until next Tuesday so that Interpublic's audit committee "could complete its review prior to management certification of its financial statements." 
 Interpublic will probably not be the last company to postpone the release of financial results now that the Securities and Exchange Commission is requiring chief executives and chief financial officers at the nation's largest companies to certify the accuracy of corporate filings, lawyers and analysts said yesterday. Penalties for signing off on inaccurate statements could include fines and even jail time. 
A spokesman for Interpublic, whose agencies handle advertising for Coca-Cola, General Motors and Nestle, declined to comment beyond the statement. A spokesman for PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has been the auditor at Interpublic and its predecessor companies for decades, said the firm would not comment on client matters.
Shares of Interpublic fell $4.69, to $14.99. 
There was no way to know yesterday whether Interpublic's audit committee had found evidence of an accounting problem or whether it was simply being cautious because of concern about shareholder lawsuits and S.E.C. investigations, lawyers and analysts said. 
"It's really hard to say what to make of this," said Michael Russell, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. The postponement "really could be thoroughness," he said, adding, "We're in very careful times."
It is a difficult time for the media industry in general and advertising companies in particular. Clients are spending less on ads because of the sluggish economy, and investors have been skittish about advertising companies since questions were raised about accounting practices at the Omnicom Group, also among the world's largest agency companies.
A delayed release will not reassure investors, said Michael Young, a lawyer at Willkie Farr & Gallagher in New York. "Companies are normally loath to postpone a previously scheduled earnings release because markets may fear the worst," Mr. Young said. "Of course, this is a highly unusual earnings season, and a postponement doesn't necessarily portend a major problem."
In previous years, members of audit committees have not caused such postponements of earnings releases because until recently they were under less pressure to make sure the numbers were accurate, Mr. Young said. "Historically, a phone call might be the totality of audit committee participation in a quarterly earnings release," he said. "These days, audit committees are looking to do a lot more."
After all, no audit committee wants to face harsh criticism from regulators if problems in accounting arise. And no one on an audit committee wants to battle shareholder lawsuits, a virtual certainty after any such problem appears, lawyers said.
Executives are also worried about the S.E.C.'s order, which requires certification not just of the most recent quarterly results but also of all financial disclosures since and including the most recent annual report. That means that with this quarterly S.E.C. filing, which is due on Aug. 14, Interpublic's chief executive and chief financial officer will be swearing to the accuracy of the annual report for 2001.
In 2001, Interpublic undertook a complicated reorganization after its $1.68 billion purchase of True North Communications, a smaller agency company based in Chicago. Analysts said that revisiting those transactions could be slowing both the audit committee and management.
Interpublic already took steps to try to bolster its credibility with investors early this year, when the company said that it would keep only two corporate insiders on its board -- John J. Dooner Jr., the chief executive, and Sean F. Orr, the chief financial officer. Its remaining seven directors and all five members of the audit committee are from outside the company.
Investor skittishness about ad companies the last few months grew after an article in The Wall Street Journal raised questions about the accounting at Omnicom. Shares in Omnicom and yet another large advertising company, the WPP Group, also fell yesterday, both by 7 percent.
Shares in Omnicom, which said in a release yesterday that it would stick to its previously announced plan to report its earnings this morning, fell $3.58, to $47.21. WPP's American depository receipts closed at $32.09, down $2.42.
Neither decline was as precipitous as that suffered by Interpublic, though, said Mr. Russell, the analyst. The difference was a result of the postponement, he said. "They would've been down today," he said, "but probably not this much." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUDITS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); LAWYERS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (53%) 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP (83%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); NESTLE SA (56%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (76%) INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (56%); KO (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D; FASS, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



123 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Stocks Plummet on Renewed Fears of Recession

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled again yesterday as investors digested another report showing that the economy was slowing sharply, or even falling back into recession.
 A key index measuring growth in the service economy dropped in July for the second month in a row to its lowest level since January, the report showed. 
 The major stock gauges fell more than 3 percent for the day. Coming on top of sharp declines on Thursday and Friday, the Nasdaq composite index has now given up all the gains since stocks began to rally from five-year lows on July 24. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have not yet pierced those lows but are closing in on them. 
Nicholas P. Sargen, global market strategist for J. P. Morgan's private clients, said that a few weeks ago he thought the economy was on a reasonably good footing and that the stock market would respond to that. "Now it is a matter of whether the economy withstands the stock market sell-off," he said.
As consumers watch their savings and investments dwindle, they may rein in their spending. Businesses, meanwhile, have shown a reluctance to invest absent signs of economic strengthening. 
 Concerns about corporate earnings are therefore building with the reports about a slowing economy. Most stock projections for this year have been driven by expectations of a strong rebound in earnings. For the second quarter, profits at the companies in the S.& P. 500 index are expected to grow about 1 percent from a year earlier, producing the first increase since the fourth quarter of 2000, according to Thomson First Call. Forecasters have said that earnings growth will accelerate in the second half of the year.
But with Wall Street scaling back its economic growth predictions for the second half, earnings expectations will also be trimmed.
Even companies like Procter & Gamble, which reported good earnings yesterday and raised its forecast for the current quarter, were swept lower, as P.& G.'s stock fell 2.7 percent. Citigroup and J. P. Morgan Chase were down more than 6 percent after Lehman Brothers issued a lukewarm outlook, citing concerns about headline risk amid all the corporate scandals.
The decline in stocks over the last three sessions also raises questions about whether the market has hit bottom, as some analysts surmised after the recent rally.
At the close, the Dow was down 269.50 points, or 3.2 percent, at 8,043.63, still ahead of its July 23 close of 7,702.34. The S.& P. 500-stock index shed 29.64 points, or 3.4 percent, to close at 834.60, ahead of 797.70 on July 23. The Nasdaq index was down 41.9 points, or 3.4 percent, to 1,206.01, breaking below its July 23 close of 1,229.05. The Nasdaq is now down 76 percent from its all-time high and at a level last seen in April 1997, making it one of the worst bear markets ever.
Stock prices also fell across Europe yesterday, with a 5.7 percent decline in Germany and a 4 percent loss in France. There were some signs that economic growth was slowing there, as factory production dropped sharply in Britain.
Last week's sharp shift in sentiment about the weakness of the economic recovery -- following reports of anemic growth in the second quarter, unexpectedly slow job creation in July and a cooling off of the manufacturing sector last month -- was reinforced yesterday morning when the Institute for Supply Management released its index of the service economy. The index dropped to 53.1 in July, from 57.2 in June. A reading above 50 means the service economy is still expanding, but the sharp deceleration suggested that the economy was on a precipice.
"I have been worried about a double dip all along," said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer of Waddell & Reed, a money management firm in Overland Park, Kan. Double dip is the Wall Street term for a second recession on the heels of one that just ended. It is widely believed that the previous recession, which began in March last year, ended near the end of 2001.
Mr. Herrmann said that he had expected that the recovery would be very mild. But now, he said, "from a statistical point of view it is getting closer to a recession."
Mr. Herrmann did note that the sharp fall in interest rates that has accompanied the stock declines and the weakening outlook may provide people and businesses with enough incentive to spend to support the economy and prevent a double dip.
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped to 4.21 percent yesterday, down from 4.29 percent on Friday. It is now within easy striking distance of its record low of 4.18 percent last November. This decline in yields should push mortgage rates to or near record lows, which could spark a mortgage refinancing boom. That in turn could help spur consumer spending by cutting monthly payments and allowing consumers to borrow at very low rates.
Automakers are also encouraging sales with no interest loans, which could continue to give the economy a lift, Mr. Herrmann said.
The yield on the Treasury's two-year note dropped to a record low of 1.89 percent, falling below 2 percent for the first time. This plunge, from 2.39 percent just a week ago, reflects the growing belief among many investors that Federal Reserve policy makers will have to cut their short-term interest rate benchmark soon to prevent the economy from falling back into recession.
The benchmark rate is now at a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. The next scheduled meeting of Fed policy makers is Aug. 13.
Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, was arguing against gloom yesterday. Although he has reduced his growth forecast recently, he expects the economy to skirt a recession. He is still forecasting 3.5 percent growth at an annual rate in the second half of the year, about a percentage point above the recent downward revisions of other Wall Street forecasters. "The job market is the overwhelming influence on consumer spending, and it's slowly improving," he wrote in an analysis distributed to clients. Although nonfarm payroll jobs rose only 6,000 in July, Mr. Steinberg said that this was the third consecutive gain and that June payroll growth had been revised up to 66,000 from 36,000.
Among the stocks leading the market lower yesterday were the Williams Companies, the troubled natural gas company, down 32.1 percent; AT&T, down 9.5 percent; Comcast, down 12.9 percent; Walt Disney, down 6.8 percent; and American Express, down 8.1 percent.
Mr. Herrmann said that the Nasdaq decline showed the dimmer outlook for the technology sector. Computer sales for the back-to-school season have been disappointing, he said, adding that he has not talked to anyone recently who has seen signs of a revival of demand for technology products.
In lowering its rating for Citigroup, Lehman Brothers said that "although we believe a material decline in the share price is unlikely from the current level, we believe the shares are likely to underperform near term due to the implications of a very tough operating environment, economic uncertainty and significant headline risk."
On J. P. Morgan, Lehman lowered its earnings forecast, saying the move was "based on a combination of factors including the expectations for weak trading results, lower revenues in the structured finance business, modest spread revenue performance and continued losses in private equity."
Citigroup was down $2.23, to $28.65, while J. P. Morgan was off $1.50, to $22.35. P.& G. fell $2.40, to $87.44.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.59699.214High Rate1.6001.555Investment Rate1.6271.589Low Rate1.55%1.52%Median Rate1.58%1.54%Total applied $39for,200,326$41,475,400$20Accepted,543,462$21,872,990$1Noncompetitive,522,442$1,084,653

Both issues are dated Aug. 08, 2002. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 07, 2002, and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 06, 2003.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing the steepest declines for the main stock gauges during bear markets misstated the most recent performance of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. It reached its low on July 23, not this Monday. And the low followed the most recent peak by 821 calendar days, not 834. At its low, the index was 47.8 percent below its peak, not 45.4 percent, making the decline the sixth worst among the major indexes, not the seventh.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A trader at the Chicago Board of Trade watched yesterday as the yield on the Treasury's two-year note dropped to a record low of 1.89 percent. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C9) Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"High rate at weekly auction. (April-July) (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C9) Chart: "More Milestones Of the Worst Kind"Yesterday's stock market sell-off brought the Nasdaq composite to a level it last hit in April 1997. The bear market declines of the Nasdaq and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are now among the worst ever for the major indexes. Graph tracks the NASDAQ Composite weekly closes from 1997-2002. DEEPEST BEAR MARKETS INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 7/8/32INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 41.22DECLINE FROM HIGH: -89.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 1,039 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 6/1/32INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 4.41DECLINE FROM HIGH: -86.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 998 INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: YesterdayINDEX VALUE AT LOW: 1,206.01DECLINE FROM HIGH: -76.1TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 848 INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 10/3/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 54.87DECLINE FROM HIGH: -59.9TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 630 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 10/3/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 62.28DECLINE FROM HIGH: -48.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 630 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 8/24/21INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 63.90DECLINE FROM HIGH: -46.6TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 660 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: YesterdayINDEX VALUE AT LOW: 834.60DECLINE FROM HIGH: -45.4TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 834 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 12/6/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 577.60DECLINE FROM HIGH: -45.1TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 694 *Calendar days Note: The S. & P. 500 started in 1926 and the Nasdaq in 1971. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); BONDS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); SCANDALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SERVICE INDUSTRIES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ STOCK MARKET 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



124 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Congo Peace Accord Evokes Cautious Hopes 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Congo, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
The Rev. Michaux Lukonga's eyes were closed on Sunday morning, his arms extended skyward. His voice seemed to come from deep inside him as he urged his congregation of 300 to pray hard, harder than ever before, for peace.
 "We've had so many agreements," bellowed Mr. Lukonga, a young Assemblies of God pastor, just three months on the job. "Those agreements are fruits of your prayer. They are proof that God is here. We are moving closer to peace." 
 The latest agreement devised to bring peace to this unhappy country, where as many as 2.5 million people have perished in the last four years of war, came along last week, raising cautious hope that the complicated conflict might be nearing an end. 
The accord, between President Joseph Kabila of Congo and his Rwandan counterpart, Paul Kagame, was signed last Tuesday in Pretoria, South Africa. Congo agreed to crack down on the Hutu militias within its borders. Rwanda, which blames the Hutu for mass killings of ethnic Tutsi in 1994, is to withdraw its troops from Congo, where they have exploited natural resources and held sway over large swaths of the east.
The agreement is not very different from one signed in Zambia in 1999, and it follows two more recent attempts at peace, one in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, last fall and another this spring in Sun City, South Africa.
Few people here in Congo's capital expect an immediate end to hostilities. Analysts warn that the timetable spelled out in the latest agreement is too optimistic. They doubt that either side will stick to the letter of the pact. But, one Western diplomat said, "it's something at a time when we needed anything."
"The most important thing is that they met and they talked and they reached some commitments," the diplomat said. "Both countries felt compelled to make a deal and just maybe they'll feel compelled to keep it."
There are some early signs that the pressure recently brought to bear on President Kabila by a range of outside powers -- the World Bank, the United States and Western Europe -- to cut a deal with Rwanda to get the Rwandans out of his country may bear fruit.
Diplomats said the Congo government, which in this complex war has been aligned with troops from Angola, Zimbabwe and Zambia against the forces of Rwanda and Uganda, who have backed Congolese rebels in the east, has played an important behind-the-scenes role with Angola in tracking down a prominent suspect in the Rwandan genocide.
The suspect is the former Rwandan Army chief of staff, Maj. Gen. Augustin Bizimungu, a Hutu accused of playing a significant role in the massacres of Rwandan Tutsi. His arrest -- which Rwanda would see as important -- may come soon, diplomats said.
Congo has not been alone in feeling pressure from the outside. Rwanda has taken a beating from its foreign donors, led by the United States, for keeping its soldiers in Congo for so many years and for backing the main group that is in rebellion against Congo's government.
The World Bank and others have long withheld funds from Mr. Kabila's government in Kinshasa but have pledged to help rebuild the country once the shooting stops.
At the pulpit at the Bread of Life Church, Mr. Lukonga was doing all he could to ensure that those funds would arrive soon. Among prayers for the people of six countries involved in the war, he singled out Mr. Kabila, who inherited the war after his father, President Laurent Kabila, was killed in January 2001.
The elder Mr. Kabila brought peace talks to a standstill, boycotting the main mediator, the former president of Botswana, Ketumile Masire, and not cooperating with the United Nations mission here.
"Without repudiating the mantle of his father, the son has basically undone much of what his father did," said one veteran diplomat.
The son agreed to accept Mr. Masire and began striking deals with the United Nations. His major challenge now may be winning over his own government. Any lasting peace would require power-sharing with the rebel factions and forcing current power holders into retirement.
Already a deal that Mr. Kabila reached earlier this year with Jean-Pierre Bemba of the Congolese Liberation Movement has soured. Mr. Kabila agreed to give Mr. Bemba the position of prime minister if his Uganda-backed group laid down its arms. Some aides close to Mr. Kabila have tried to scuttle that agreement, believing he gave up too much.
"There are those who would rather be a minister of 50 percent of the country than unemployed in a unified land," one Western diplomat said.
The United States, meanwhile, has been pushing Mr. Kabila to show his commitment to peace by cracking down on the Rwandan Hutu within Congo's borders. Some of them are wreaking havoc in the eastern part of Congo. Others, political leaders of the Hutu rebel group known as the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, are being given shelter in Kinshasa at government expense, Western diplomats say.
Some Hutu who led the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 were believed to have fled to Congo. Without having hard evidence, American officials suspect that some who are wanted by the United Nations tribunal in Arusha, Tanzania, on war crimes charges may be inside Congo.
"This is a critical moment in history, where there is a choice between leaving these fugitives and other negative elements to fester and foment ongoing conflict or making a strong effort to apprehend them," Pierre-Richard Prosper, the American ambassador for war crimes issues, said late last month in announcing a reward program for the capture of genocide suspects.
The history of vast, mineral-rich Congo has been sorry virtually since Belgian rule ended in 1960. But the particular despair now gives Mr. Kabila every interest in pursuing peace.
Many of the Congolese who have perished in the war did so not in the fighting, but because they had no food and no aid group could reach them. In Kinshasa's ramshackle downtown, jobless people outnumber the employed.
The University of Kinshasa, once the pride of Africa, is a shell of its former self, unable to attract students from any other part of the continent. Indeed, fighting has become so widespread in the countryside that the university has become a refuge for Congolese -- so popular that classrooms often have standing room only. Some students carry their own chairs into class, and others stand outside to listen to the lectures through the windows.
Dorm rooms designed for two students frequently house eight or more. With so much strain and so few resources, the buildings are decaying. Library books carry copyrights from three decades back, and professors rely on handouts from students to supplement their meager government salaries.
Graduates find few jobs waiting. Many continue in the money-making opportunities they carved out as students: one young man says he pays tuition by raising chickens, many others sell sodas or snacks, and some of the women even sell themselves in local bars.
Mady Mangwele, 26, was one of the lucky ones, securing a job at a bank after graduating with an economics degree last year. "I'm crossing my fingers for peace," she said.
If there is one potential benefit to all the misery, it is that Congo's churches are booming, even on campus. "The suffering has pushed students to be open to the Gospel," said Timothee Mbengela, coordinator for Kinshasa's Campus Crusade for Christ. "Now we find services inside the dormitories. After all they go through each day, these students need to pray."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Tuesday about an accord to end Congo's war against Rwanda and Uganda misidentified one of three countries aligned with the Congolese. It was Namibia, (along with Angola and Zimbabwe). Zambia sent troops to Congo only as part of a peacekeeping mission and did not support the war effort.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Michaux Lukonga led his congregation at the Bread of Life Church in Kinshasa in a prayer for peace and national harmony during last Sunday's service. He urged everyone to pray harder than ever before. (Francesco Broli for The New York Times) Map of Congo shows approximate area of rebel control: Rebels aided by Rwandan troops hold large swaths of Congo's east.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); GENOCIDE (87%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ARMIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); ARRESTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) HUTU TRIBE; TUTSI TRIBE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) RWANDA (95%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); ZAMBIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); RWANDA; 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



125 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO FALLS. The dollar gained versus the euro after the market shrugged off weak service-sector data to focus on lackluster economies elsewhere. In New York, the euro settled at 98.11 cents, down from 98.75 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%) CURRENCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



126 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: At Rutgers, Foes of Sports As a Priority Win a Round 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE 

 BODY:
A maverick alumni group has won another round in its effort to get Rutgers University to focus less on athletics and more on academics.
 A New Jersey appeals court ruled on Friday that the university's alumni magazine was wrong to reject an advertisement from the group encouraging Rutgers to withdraw from the Big East Conference. The ruling upheld a March 2001 decision in State Superior Court. 
 The ad, which the group tried to place in Rutgers Magazine in 1998, quoted a speech by the economist Milton Friedman, an alumnus, saying, "Universities exist to transmit knowledge and understanding of ideas and values to students, not to provide entertainment for spectators or employment for athletes." 
The ad took up a third of a page, and under the headline "Rutgers Alumni: A Time to Choose" urged the university to pull out of what it called "professionalized athletics."
The magazine said the ad violated a policy against "advocacy advertising." The alumni group sued, arguing that because Rutgers is a public institution, the rejection of the ad violated free speech protections.
In its ruling, the three-judge panel ruled unanimously that Rutgers had the right to adopt the advertising ban but had violated its own policy by running an ad for Big East tickets. 
"They weren't consistent," said J.C. Salyer, a lawyer with the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the alumni group, known as Rutgers 1,000. "If you don't apply it consistently, you might as well have no policy at all. Instead, they got to choose who they liked. This upholds our right to be heard."
University officials interpreted the decision as a vindication of its policy, despite what the court said about violating that policy. 
"To my mind, that is at worst a failure of perception or, as the court elsewhere calls it, 'a lapse of sensitivity,' not constitutional viewpoint discrimination," the university's counsel, David R. Scott, said in a statement. The university has not decided whether to appeal.
Several national lobbying groups for higher education, including the American Council on Education and the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, had joined the appeal as friends of the court on Rutgers's behalf, arguing its right to set a policy on which ads to accept.
But the alumni group said the real issue was Rutgers's focus on sports.
The group wants Rutgers to move down a notch in the National Collegiate Athletic Association, from Division I to Division II, where the competition to attract big-name players would be less fierce. That competition, the group argues, forces universities to spend too much on athletic facilities and to ignore bad grades or poor qualifications of athletes.
"This is a victory for free speech, but as for the athletics juggernaut, that's so deeply embedded in American society that it will take a lot more than a bunch of alumni dissidents to detract from that," said Richard Seclow, a leader of the group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMNI (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); VERDICTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); JUDGES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; COLLEGE ATHLETICS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (54%) RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE; FRIEDMAN, MILTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



127 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Strikes and Strike Threat Are Stanton's Concerns

BYLINE:  By TYLER KEPNER 

 BODY:
Mike Stanton is making $2.5 million this year. His salary was $2.45 million last season and $2.4 million in 2000. Stanton knows these numbers are printed in newspapers, and he understands many people may never understand what he's fighting for.
 Stanton, the left-handed reliever, is the Yankees' representative to the players union. He is simultaneously trying to help his team win a World Series, secure another good contract this winter and repair the economic problems of an industry with no such thing as a quick fix. 
 Things are back to normal for Stanton on the field. On Sunday in Anaheim, he secured eight outs in the 9th, 10th and 11th innings as the Yankees beat the Angels, 7-5, in 12 innings. It was the best outing in a while for Stanton, whose earned run average since the All-Star Game break is 5.73.
His push for a new contract is in the background. Stanton is one of seven potential free agents on the Yankees, and General Manager Brian Cashman said the club is not currently negotiating with any of them.
"I don't really think about it," Stanton, 35, said. "I've got too much on the table to worry about something that's in the future."
Smack in the middle of Stanton's table is baseball's labor situation and the time it chews from his schedule. Stanton is on the union's negotiating team, which means weekly conference calls with the executive board and other player representatives. Those average 45 to 90 minutes each.
Then there are surveys to take, literature to distribute, teammates' questions to answer -- "The questions are never-ending," he said -- and, because he plays in New York, occasional meetings in Manhattan. Stanton did not campaign for the job, but he takes it seriously.
"It definitely takes time away from my family," he said. "It definitely takes time away from other things I'd like to be doing, including sometimes here at the field. But it's something that has to be done. It's an important job to make sure, if nothing else, that the guys stay informed and up to date."
Stanton was the assistant player representative to David Cone when Cone played for the Yankees. Last season, after Cone left, Stanton held the unofficial title. His teammates formally appointed him in June.
At their hotel in Arlington, Tex., last week, Yankees players met with Donald Fehr, the executive director of the union. Later some players referred questions about the meeting to Stanton, and others were vague or admitted that they had little interest.
The union takes pride in keeping all members informed, but the attention levels are diverse. As the Rangers held their meeting later that day at the park, for example, outfielder Carl Everett cruised by the conference room in a sports car, oblivious.
"I'd say about half the guys really get involved and know exactly what's going on," said Yankees catcher Chris Widger, who served three years as the Montreal Expos' player rep. "The other half just wants to hear the bottom line: what happens if we do this, what happens if we do that. They're interested, but they're not interested in the details."
Mike Mussina has an economics degree from Stanford, and he served eight seasons as the player representative for the Baltimore Orioles. That tenure covered the 1994 strike, which caused the cancellation of the World Series. Mussina, who is Stanton's assistant, said the membership is more involved now.
"Definitely, because the last time resulted in a long work stoppage," Mussina said. "Previous times, except for 1981, there always seemed to be a last-minute settlement, and veteran players just assumed it was going to be the way it was the times before. It was more, 'Give us the bottom line, we'll get back to baseball.' It didn't happen. We were out."
It may happen again. Stanton said the general reluctance of players to set a strike date should prove how much they want to avoid a strike. But Stanton also knows a date will be set soon.
Stanton's job includes not only keeping his teammates informed but also trying to explain the players' side to fans. There are things he wants to make clear.
"I've said it a bunch, and I hope the message is getting out: in the situation we're in, the road that we're on, we absolutely have no choice," Stanton said. "As a union, we have things going on in negotiations that we can't control without the inevitable.
"We thought we had an agreement last summer, but it wasn't meant to be. People have to understand that as a union, we don't have a choice. If we go through the regular season in good faith and we don't get a deal done, this off-season the whole system will go down the tubes. Whether it's implementation, collusion like it was in the late 80's, whatever it is, the whole system is going to fold.
"Something else people should know is, we're not looking to get us more money. We're looking to be fair to everyone. Nobody gets everything they want."
Stanton said he had heard only general feedback from fans. "They don't want a strike, and we don't want a strike," he said. He has never been hassled for being on the front lines of an emotional public dispute.
Ultimately, Stanton knows, the players must decide whether the fallout from another lengthy strike would be more costly than the owners' implementation of a new economic system.
That decision, apparently, has already been made, even though no strike date has been set.
"We absolutely don't want to make that look like a show of weakness," Stanton said. "We're as united as ever, and we'll do what we have to do."

INSIDE PITCH
JASON GIAMBI and DAVID WELLS were among the players who reported to Yankee Stadium for treatment on yesterday's off day. Giambi left Sunday's game in Anaheim with soreness in his lower back, and Wells was also bothered by back pain. General Manager BRIAN CASHMAN said that there were no medical appointments scheduled for either player and that he expected Giambi to play tonight against Kansas City. Wells is still on track to start Saturday against Oakland, but Cashman said the Yankees would have a better idea after he threw this week. JEFF WEAVER could start in his place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%) BASEBALL; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (56%) NEW YORK YANKEES; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN 

PERSON: KEPNER, TYLER; STANTON, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



128 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Cut Into Income In New York, Census Finds 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The surprising drop in median income in New York City that has puzzled demographers studying the results of the 2000 census appears to be traceable in large part to immigration, according to new census data that show income declines concentrated heavily in neighborhoods in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens that have become magnets for new arrivals.
 The data, released yesterday, indicate that median household incomes rose across most of Manhattan in the 90's, with especially big leaps in places including TriBeCa and parts of Harlem. Simultaneously, drops occurred in much of the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, often in neighborhoods like Jackson Heights and eastern Flushing, where longtime residents have moved out and been replaced by immigrants. 
 A similar pattern was visible in New Jersey. The biggest percentage jump in median household income occurred in Hunterdon County, a heavily white county at the heart of what has been called the state's flourishing wealth belt. Meanwhile, median income dropped in Newark, Paterson and Trenton, and in smaller cities where less educated, less skilled immigrants have moved in. 
Everywhere, the biggest gains in income were among whites, often in places populated heavily by people working in businesses like finance, pharmaceuticals and telecommunications. The biggest income increases among Asians were in suburban Middlesex and Somerset Counties in New Jersey, which have attracted large numbers of highly skilled and highly educated South Asians.
Blacks did less well. Although the median household incomes for all groups in New Jersey rose, when adjusted for inflation, the median for blacks alone rose by only 1.1 percent, to $38,513. The median for whites alone rose by 5.1 percent to $59,153; the median for Asians rose by 3.8 percent to $72,145; and the median for Latinos rose by 1.1 percent to $39,609.
"The income data are the result of an economy that has reinvented itself during the 1990's," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "This was really the rise of the new information-age, knowledge-based economy, in conjunction with the sustained decline of old-line manufacturing.
"That change has placed a premium on education and skill levels, and people who have those attributes have been rewarded greatly. At the same time, with the decline in manufacturing, those who have just a high school degree have been penalized economically. So we have that growing disparity linked to education level. And that has a racial component to it, because blacks and Latinos have lower levels of educational attainment."
In many cases, the richest communities remained the towns and neighborhoods that had been the richest in 1990: mostly white suburbs like Scarsdale, where the median household income rose by 16.6 percent to $182,792; and a handful of mostly white census tracts on the Upper East Side of Manhattan between Fifth and Park Avenues, where the medians approach $200,000.
Among the poorest places in the two states were many upstate New York cities, including Ithaca, Buffalo, Utica, Syracuse, Binghamton and Jamestown, where median household incomes were between $21,400 and $25,850. In New York City, the 20 neighborhoods with the lowest median income were concentrated in the Bronx and Brooklyn. They included Coney Island, with a median of $14,908.
But the biggest percentage jumps in median income in New York City occurred in a wide variety of places, illustrating the breadth of the neighborhood revival that took place in the 1990's. They ranged from struggling Bronx areas like Highbridge and Mott Haven to St. Nicholas Terrace in Harlem and gentrifying districts in Manhattan and Brooklyn like SoHo and Carroll Gardens.
"The rich got richer, Manhattan got better and immigrant neighborhoods had an income loss," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College who analyzed the new census data relating to income for The New York Times. "The people who are living there now are making less money than the people who were living there 10 years ago."
The data released yesterday, which covered only New York and New Jersey, are just the latest among the results of the 2000 census, which the Census Bureau is releasing over several years. Preliminary income data, broken down only by county, came out in May. Those numbers had puzzled some analysts, who had expected to see the benefits of the late 1990's boom more broadly shared.
Similar patterns had also surfaced in the income data for other Northeastern cities and parts of Southern California, leading some demographers and economists to speculate that immigration might be a factor: that is, as low-wage workers were pouring in from places like Central America and China, native-born people and more established immigrants were moving up and out.
The Census Bureau is scheduled to release detailed data for other states, including Connecticut, in coming weeks.
According to Professor Beveridge's analysis of the New York and New Jersey numbers, median income rose in nearly every part of Manhattan, but most steeply in places like Clinton, Little Italy and much of downtown, where affluent whites have moved in. In Harlem, the median rose most markedly in the St. Nicholas Terrace section, where it climbed by 40.6 percent, to $24,031.
Chinatown, a landing pad for less educated and newly arrived Chinese immigrants, was one of the few Manhattan neighborhoods in which the median household income dropped. For Asians alone, it dropped by nearly 14 percent to $18,629. Elsewhere, median household incomes rose significantly on the Upper West Side, the West Village, the East Village and Kips Bay.
The growing affluence of Manhattan and its financial sector seemed to spill over to nearby neighborhoods in Brooklyn, like Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill, and to some communities across the Hudson River in New Jersey. The overall median household income for Hoboken leaped by 38.2 percent to $62,550, with the increase even higher among whites alone.
Outside New York City, some of the biggest increases were in growing communities on the exurban fringe, like Far Hills in Somerset County, N.J., and Rumson in Monmouth County, N.J. The increases were especially striking among affluent suburban whites. The median household income for whites alone in Scarsdale jumped by 49.9 percent, to $194,597.
Some of the biggest declines in median household income among whites occurred in cities that many whites had abandoned in recent years, like Asbury Park and East Orange, N.J., and in New York City neighborhoods like Flatbush, Brownsville and Bedford-Stuyvesant, where whites were once dominant, but are now a tiny minority.
Similarly, the highest black median incomes were in communities where blacks were in a small fraction of the population, like Marlboro and West Windsor townships in New Jersey. But the median household incomes among blacks were also relatively high in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in New York and Middlesex and Burlington Counties in New Jersey, all of which have significant black populations.
In New York City, the neighborhoods with the highest median income among blacks still included Rosedale, Laurelton and Cambria Heights, three middle-class black areas in Queens where black incomes have tended to outstrip white. The black medians there had dropped slightly, but were still relatively high, at $64,391 in Rosedale, $62,801 in Laurelton and $59,144 in Cambria Heights.
Similarly, the highest household incomes among Latinos were in places with relatively few Latinos, including Scarsdale and the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The lowest were in upstate New York cities like Utica, Syracuse and Buffalo. In New York City, the neighborhoods with the lowest Latino median incomes were all in the Bronx and Brooklyn.
In Hunts Point, for example, where immigrants from the Dominican Republic and elsewhere have been moving into places that Puerto Ricans left behind, the median income among Latinos rose by nearly 10 percent, to $15,529. But it still remained among the lowest in the city.
The lowest median incomes for Asians in New York City were not only in Chinatown and Little Italy, but also Sunset Park and Borough Park in Brooklyn. The neighborhoods with the highest include Bellerose and Floral Park in Queens.
Professor Hughes, who also looked at the education data for New Jersey, said he was struck by two things: that 62 percent of all adult Asians in New Jersey had at least a bachelor's degree, a figure he called "extraordinarily high," and that 12.5 percent of adult Latinos in the state had a bachelor's degree, a percentage he called surprisingly low.
The average for all adults in New Jersey is 29.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A Mixed Picture on Income" A look at 2000 census data released yesterday for New York and New Jersey. Figures and maps show data for income by race and ethnicity, and compare them with the last census. Percentage change in median household income, 90 to 00 Median household income 2000 Chart tracks income divided into race for most of New York and New Jersey. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); REFUGEES (73%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; INCOME 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



129 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Change Are Appearing in a Struggling Area of the Bronx 

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA 

 BODY:
The Highbridge section of the Bronx is not a Starbucks kind of place.
 The neighborhood, north of Yankee Stadium along the Harlem River, is a rough part of the city where liquor stores and vacant lots line the block instead of boutiques and trendy restaurants. 
 Still, there are signs that the people of this community are, if not in a state of transition, at least beginning to peek around the corner at a better life. According to data gathered in the 2000 census, household incomes have risen 44.8 percent since 1990, the fifth-highest increase in New York. 
A quick tour of the neighborhood reflects the change. Some parks are newly refurbished and safe. There are still weedy lots surrounded by barbed wire, but there are also renovated six-story brick apartment buildings, their old stone scrubbed clean.
The sharp rise in median income is partly due to the low starting point. In 1990, the average family earned only $14,569. Today the average income, at $21,094, is still one of the lowest in New York. 
But it is real money.
"This place is not so bad as it once was," Larry Myers, 70, said yesterday as he watched children play on the jungle gym and splash in the water spouts in the recently refurbished Nelson Park. He pointed at buildings on the blocks around the park, rattling off which ones had been redone. "They are cleaning this place up," he said, satisfied.
Mr. Myers has been coming to the park for more than a decade, and he recalls when half of it was still a nasty parking lot and the other half was ramshackle. He said a drop in crime, not the rise in incomes, was the biggest change. "How many parents do you see around?" he asked as he gestured toward the children. "It's safe now."
He thought that attracted the new immigrant families that are rapidly changing the face of Highbridge. "We have Dominicans, people from the West Indies, Africa, you name it."
Demographers see this immigration influx, made up mainly of Dominicans and Africans, as a major factor in the census data. While immigrants may bring income levels down over all in the city, they tend to do the opposite in some poor neighborhoods, experts say.
"There is an experiment going on in Highbridge and in other parts of the Bronx," said Dr. William Bosworth, director of the Bronx Data Center at Lehman College. "Is it possible to establish a dynamic immigrant, minority, middle-class neighborhood?"
While the answer to that question is a long way off, Dr. Bosworth said, the initial signs are encouraging.
"About 80 years ago, people came to the Bronx from the Lower East Side to get one step up the ladder," Dr. Bosworth explained. He speculated that with the booming Dominican population just across the Harlem River in Washington Heights, perhaps a similar migration, west to east, was taking place as stable working families searched for more affordable and larger living spaces in Highbridge. Renovation efforts by the city and private groups have opened up opportunities for immigrants that simply were not there a decade ago, he said.
Of course, how well things are is a matter of perspective. Vernice Mazyck has lived in a high-rise housing project on Ogden Avenue for 33 years. "It's poor and getting poorer," she said. "I live in a place where the water leaks, the elevator is not running, rats are in the hallway, pit bulls fight outside and the kids with the drugs don't stop." 
Joe Johnson, who has lived in Highbridge for 50 years, also said the people at the census must be daft. "There is no more money here," he said. "The only money is in the Lotto, and no one has hit that around here for 20 years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The children playing behind him in recently refurbished Nelson Park represent one of the changes that Larry Myers is seeing in the Highbridge neighborhood of the Bronx. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); TRENDS (76%); CENSUS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); PARENTS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); REFUGEES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: SANTORA, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



130 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Israel Tightens Travel Ban In Northern West Bank
The Israeli government banned Palestinian travel through the northern West Bank, further tightening already stringent restrictions, after three Palestinian attacks Sunday and early Monday killed 13 people. The new controls came as a study financed by the American government reported significant malnutrition among Palestinian children. A1

Shooting at School in Pakistan
Four men shot their way into an isolated boarding school for the children of Christian missionaries, killing six Pakistanis. None of the 100 Australian, European and American children at the school were hurt. A security official at the boarding school said three suspects had been arrested, but a Pakistani official could not confirm it. A1

U.N. Says No Iraq Arms Talks
The United Nations Security Council and Secretary General Kofi Annan agreed that weapons inspectors would not go to Iraq to reopen talks after a break of almost four years unless Saddam Hussein's government agreed to abide by the organization's rules on how inspections must be conducted. In Washington, leading members of Congress refused an Iraqi invitation to inspect arms sites for themselves. A9

Schroder Opens Campaign
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, his party trailing badly in the opinion polls, opened his campaign for re-election three weeks early, pledging to protect "the little guy" and warning against "playing around with war or military action" in Iraq. A9

Japan in Uproar Over Registry
Japan put into operation a national computerized registry of its citizens that provoked civil disobedience and a widespread feeling that privacy should take priority over efficiency. Yokohama, Japan's second largest city, made the national government's registry voluntary, and half a dozen other cities boycotted it, effectively leaving 4 million people out of the system. A3

China Denounces Taiwan Chief
China offered a boilerplate response denouncing aggressive statements on relations with Taiwan by its president, Chen Shui-bian, and suggested that his own constituents may provide the strongest censure of his remarks. China's condemnation centered on an increasingly unavoidable reality: that Taiwan's economy is fast becoming dependent on the mainland. A4

Warning for Afghan Warlord
The new government of Hamid Karzai, under pressure to control lawlessness in Afghanistan's outlands, issued a statement calling Padsha Khan Zadran, a volatile warlord in the Khost region, and his heavily armed men "a group of bandits." It also warned that the government may be "forced to take any actions deemed necessary to keep the peace and stability." A8

World Briefing A7

NATIONAL A10-13

Democrats See New Hope For Recapturing the House
Rising voter concern about the nation's future, spurred by an unsteady economy and unrest on Wall Street, is creating anxiety among some Republicans and lifting confidence among Democratic leaders that their party can capture the House of Representatives in November. That turn of events had seemed impossible two months ago. A1

Border Deaths Reach Record
Along the remote desert outposts at the edges of the 2,000-mile border between Mexico and the United States, where migrants have resorted to crossing to avoid increased border patrols in the cities, deaths are reaching record rates. June was the deadliest month ever for the Southwest border, with 67 fatalities. A1

Rescued Miners' Day in the Sun
Nine rescued miners were saluted by President Bush and then listened as Hollywood producers auditioned for the job of retelling their story for the movie that is already planned. A10

Florida Judge Rejects Vouchers
A Tallahassee judge ruled that Florida's school voucher program is unconstitutional and ordered an immediate injunction preventing students in public schools from using vouchers to attend private schools. A10

Judge Ends Abortion Delay
A Pennsylvania judge allowed a woman to end her pregnancy after a court-ordered week's delay during which he had considered her ex-boyfriend's objections. A10

West Nile Sets Off Alarms
The largest outbreak of illness from West Nile virus since it was first detected in this country in 1999 is a warning against lowering the guard against mosquito-borne diseases, federal health officials said. A13

Surgeons Try to Separate Twins
A team of surgeons in California tried to separate two 1-year-old Guatemalan siblings whose heads are fused. A13

Agents Lose Guns and Laptops
F.B.I. and other federal law-enforcement agencies have lost hundreds of guns and other weapons in recent years, along with more than 400 laptop computers that, in some cases, may have contained classified national security information, a Justice Department report has found. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Median Income Down, Immigration Seen as Cause
The surprising drop in median income in New York City appears to be traceable in large part to immigration, according to results of the 2000 census. The data indicate that median household incomes rose across most of Manhattan and parts of Harlem. Simultaneously, drops occurred in much of the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, often in neighborhoods where long-time residents have been replaced by immigrants. A1

Credit Union Robbed by Its Own
Fifteen million dollars was looted from the city's Municipal Credit Union by its own members, including city employees, health care professionals and education workers, when a computer failure caused by the collapse of the World Trade Center allowed virtually unlimited access to money in automated teller machines, prosecutors said. So far 61 people have been arrested. A1

Cancer Study Shows Few Links
A long-awaited federal study on possible links between pollution and high rates of breast cancer on Long Island has failed to show any connection between the disease and pesticides that were once widely used on the island. It also found only a very slight correlation between cancer rates and exposure to other man-made pollutants like car exhaust and cigarette smoke. B1

Crash at Hartford Museum
The last remaining 18th century home in Hartford was damaged by a sport utility vehicle that jumped a curb and slammed through the front wall. B6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Human Genealogy Rethought
The recent discovery of two ancient skulls has forced paleontologists to reconsider many theories about human genealogy and rethink some of their ideas about the first migrations out of Africa by human relatives. F1

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B9

ARTS E1-8

SPORTS D1-8

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Medical Buyer Alters Practices
Under pressure from Congress, Premier Inc., a company that helps about a quarter of the nation's hospitals buy drugs, medical devices and other supplies, has agreed to change the way it does business. A1

AOL Chief to Be Named Soon
AOL Time Warner is expected to announce today that it has hired Jonathan F. Miller, an executive with Internet and television experience, to be the next chief executive of America Online. C1

Accenture Could Lose Millions
With Congress ready to bar contracts to companies that acquired an offshore address to cut their taxes, the consulting firm Accenture is at risk of losing hundreds of millions unless it can persuade lawmakers that it is different from other companies. C1

Stewart Reportedly Warned
The assistant to Martha Stewart's stockbroker has told investigators that he was ordered to tell Ms. Stewart that the founder of ImClone was selling large amounts of stock, a person briefed on the situation said. C1

Interpublic Delays Its Earnings
The Interpublic Group of Companies, one of the largest advertising agency concerns, will postpone release of its second-quarter earnings by a week. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B8

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Ending secret detentions; a good deal for Lower Manhattan; South America's troubled economies; did you get the check I sent?
Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSPECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (76%); RURAL SCHOOLS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (74%); MALNUTRITION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (65%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (79%) KANTO, JAPAN (74%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



131 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  ByJOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Travel Rebound Has Yet to Arrive
That expected travel rebound just isn't happening this summer.
 Despite deep fare cuts, the major airlines continue to report sharp drops in passenger traffic. American Airlines said its traffic dropped 9.7 percent in July from July 2001; Continental Airlines' traffic was off 8.6 percent, and Delta Air Lines' was down 6.6 percent -- on systems that are now putting 6 to 10 percent fewer seats in the air than this time last year. When they report their July traffic this week, the other major carriers, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines and US Airways, are not expected to buck the dire trend. 
 Meanwhile, the hotel business also languishes in the doldrums. Occupancy rates at domestic hotels were off 3.6 percent, to 59.5 percent, in the first half of this year compared with the first half of 2001, according to Smith Travel Research.
PKF Consulting said that hotels experienced an average 19.4 percent decline in profits in 2001. PKF also said that hotels in major cities -- which are typically most dependent on business travel -- had a drop of 9 percent in occupancy rates in the first quarter of 2002.
Hardest hit: San Francisco, where hotel occupancy was off 17.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with drops of 4.9 percent in New York, 13.5 percent in Chicago, 10.2 percent in Los Angeles, 14.5 percent in Boston and 12.5 percent in Dallas.
Any positive news? "We believe that full-year 2002 industry operating performance will improve slightly versus 2001," said Mark Lomanno, the president of Smith Travel Research. Assuming, he hedged, the economy starts growing and there are no further terrorist calamities.

Southwest Airlines Lowers Some Fares
Let the good times can roll in Las Vegas. Southwest Airlines last week announced a spate of low fares for travel between Los Angeles and Las Vegas this fall. That is a route, incidentally, that many more people are driving rather than flying these days to avoid airports.
From Sept. 3 through next Jan. 10, one-way fares between Los Angeles and Las Vegas are $19. You read it right, $19. That doesn't include various airport and security fees, which can pile another $17 or so onto that ticket price.
At the same time, feisty little National Airlines is cutting the cost of upgrades to first class on its routes between Las Vegas and any West Coast city it serves in a bid to attract business travelers and high rollers. First-class upgrades now cost $40 each way on routes between Las Vegas and Los Angeles or San Francisco, and $60 between Seattle and Las Vegas. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); TICKET SALES (71%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



132 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Immigrant Death Rate Rises Sharply in Barren Areas 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: EL CENTRO, Calif. 

 BODY:
The dying season began early here this year, with four bloated bodies found floating in the All-American Canal on March 14. The victims, young men ages 19 and 20, had made their way from Chiapas, in southernmost Mexico, before drowning in the canal's churning currents just 35 yards from United States land.
 For the Imperial County Sheriff's Department, it was an ominous sign. The dead usually start showing up in multiples in high summer, when the desert becomes an inferno and the canal, roiling beneath a calm veneer, lures migrants looking for a quick way across and relief from the killing sun. If bodies were washing up in groups in March, what would the summer be like? 
 The answer, so far, is grim. Even though deaths along the Mexican border have declined over all as the slumping American economy has attracted fewer migrants, the toll is reaching record rates in the most remote and dangerous outposts. To avoid the stepped-up border patrols in populated areas, the most desperate migrants cross in the more unguarded and desolate deserts of Arizona and eastern California. June was the deadliest month ever for the southwest border, with 67 migrants dying, mostly in the unrelenting heat of the United States Border Patrol's Tucson sector, a barely habitable land that covers most of southern Arizona. 
Here in the mountainous El Centro sector, which includes the vast Imperial Desert, 52 migrants have died since Oct. 1. The sheriff's department believes the deaths could outpace last year's record of 95.
"It seems quiet, but we're finding more multiples -- bodies in threes, fours and fives," said Gary Hayes, a deputy coroner in the department. "They're really trying to avoid detection, so they're going to more and more remote areas."
The rising toll in these barren regions is the more remarkable because illegal immigration from Mexico has fallen 29 percent, largely because of the faltering United States economy and tighter security, and border deaths in general are down 20 percent. 
Experts warn that the deadliest months are to come. August, traditionally, is the cruelest. They also note that the statistics do not include people who die in Mexico. (The Mexican government counted 22 migrants who died inside its border in June. It counts only Mexicans and not migrants who pass through from Central America or elsewhere.)
The deaths are full of suffering. People have suffocated in airless trucks, died in vehicle crashes, been struck by lightning or drowned. Most often, though, they are felled by heatstroke or dehydration. Some carry no identification and, in a tragic irony, end up where they wanted to be, in the United States -- but in anonymous pauper's graves. Other migrants, not counted by the Border Patrol, never make it across. 
Migrant advocacy organizations blame the Border Patrol for the mounting deaths, saying that its decision to focus its policing on border cities has driven migrant traffic to the most severe terrain, with the most extreme climates, winter and summer. The policy, which began as Operation Gatekeeper in 1994, added officers, enhanced surveillance equipment and put up physical barriers like concrete walls, as well as introducing other measures, at the San Diego border. The strategy was then expanded to Arizona and Texas.
Since the operation began, about 2,000 migrants have died trying to cross into this country, according to the Mexican government, with an average of more than one a day in the last two years. The shift has also made expensive smugglers -- called coyotes -- indispensable. Possibly hundreds of migrants have died because they have been abandoned by these smugglers, or because they have been led by people who themselves could not manage a brutal landscape, their advocates say.
"Once the deaths started happening by the dozens in the mountains east of San Diego," the federal government "never rethought its strategy," said Claudia Smith, border project director for the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, in San Diego. "The Border Patrol, as planned, went on to push them into the deserts," she said, "where the risk increased exponentially."
The Border Patrol denies that its policies are responsible for the increase in deaths and has no plans to change its strategy. It counters that it is doing everything it can to deter migrants from passing through the desert, including adding medically trained search and trauma teams to rescue migrants, helicopter patrols in treacherous areas and several rescue beacons in the desert that send an electronic distress signal with the push of a button. It has also mounted a public service campaign in Mexico and Central America, using celebrities to do television and radio advertisements to warn would-be migrants of the dangers of trying an illegal border crossing.
"Our primary mission is to protect our nation's borders," said Mario Villarreal, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Washington, D.C., adding that unscrupulous smugglers, charging between $1,000 and $2,000 a person or more, are to blame for persuading would-be border crossers to make the dangerous trek.
Crossing the border illegally has always come with risks. Before Operation Gatekeeper, most traffic entered via cities like San Diego and El Paso, where migrants became targets for muggers and the like.
A study released in July by the Public Policy Institute of California, a research organization in San Francisco, found that the Gatekeeper strategy, which costs more than $2 billion a year, has done little to significantly diminish illegal immigration. It actually increased after the border buildup. Economic opportunities in the United States and Mexico, the study found, have a stronger effect on migration than does the number of agents at the border.
Migrants risking their lives in the extremes of the desert tend to come from the poorest states in Mexico, like Chiapas and Oaxaca, where the economy is in collapse and whole villages have been vacated by working-age men, and, increasingly, women. At Casa Madre de Asunto in Tijuana, a safe house for migrant women that is run by a Catholic nun, a dozen or more women at a time have either migrated to the city from the south or have stopped by on their way to cross the border.
Recently, a 31-year-old woman from Oaxaca said she and her brother, a cousin and a friend, who were resting at a safe house for men next door, had driven for two days and two nights to make it to Tijuana and planned to make a two-day trek through mountains with a "coyote" who was taking them into Los Angeles, charging them $1,500 each.
"That's $1,000 less than he charges others," she said, "because he knows us." She had tried to make the trek months before, she said, but lost her nerve after feeling faint and dehydrated and turned back after a day. 
She said she hoped to become a maid or work in a store and make some money to send to her mother. "I'm coming for a better life for all of us," she said.
Days later, a woman at the safe house said she assumed the group had made it across; they had not heard from the Oaxaca woman.
When smugglers are caught, said Mr. Villarreal of the Border Patrol, efforts are made to prosecute them. In a recent incident in Dallas, where two men were found dead in a stifling 54-foot-long truck that had transported 40 illegal immigrants from El Paso, a nine-hour trip, two truckers have been charged with murder. 
"This is good work' but we're not done," Mr. Villarreal said. "The main message we still want to get out is that it is dangerous to try to cross along the southwest border." 
Here in the El Centro sector, five suspected illegal immigrants died of heat exposure in mid-July in an area of the Imperial Desert that resembles a moonscape. "It's almost totally devoid of plant life," Mr. Hayes, the deputy coroner, said.
Spotted by a military aircraft, the bodies could not retrieved for a day because of the terrain. Mr. Hayes said satellite equipment was needed to mark the positions of the bodies. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A cross stenciled "No Olvidado," or "not forgotten," marking a potter's field grave in Holtville, Calif., where many unidentified migrants who died trying to enter the United States illegally from Mexico are buried. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of the Southwest and Mexico shows migrant deaths in border patrol sectors. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SHERIFFS (76%); REFUGEES (76%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (76%); DEATHS (74%); WEATHER (74%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; WEATHER; DROWNINGS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (72%)

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%) MEXICO; CALIFORNIA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



133 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Buyer for Hospitals Agrees To Change Its Practices
Under pressure from Congress, Premier, a company that helps about a quarter of the nation's hospitals buy drugs, medical devices and other supplies, has agreed to change the way it does business.
 Premier has agreed to contract with more companies, stop investing in supply companies and limit how much money it accepts from companies that receive contracts. Negotiators are trying to reach a similar agreement with another buying group, Novation. Page A1. 

Microsoft Plans Release of Data
In an effort to comply with a proposed antitrust settlement, Microsoft plans to disclose more technical data than it ever has before about its Windows operating system. C8.

Procter Reports Higher Earnings
Procter & Gamble reported fourth-quarter earnings that topped expectations largely because of sales of its beauty and health care products. For the quarter, Procter & Gamble reported earnings of $910 million in contrast to a loss of $320 million a year ago. Net sales rose 6.1 percent, to $10.17 billion. C4.

Cablevision to End Tracking Stock
Cablevision Systems plans to retire shares that track its interests in Rainbow Media Group. The announcement could be a precursor to Cablevision's selling some networks or other assets; the company is facing a deficit of at least $600 million next year. C3.

Taiwan Markets Fall on Dispute
Taiwan's stock market fell in response to deteriorating relations with China, but the dispute is unlikely to affect either side's economy. World Business, Section W.

S.E.C. Is Investigating Mirant
The Securities and Exchange Commission has started to look into Mirant's accounting and energy trading after the company said it might have misreported $253 million. C4.

For Big Oil, Open Door in Far East
Vast reserves of natural gas and oil in Russia just north of Japan and Korea have drawn the interest of several multinational companies. Foreign companies are expected to invest about $13 billion there in the next four years. World Business, Section W.

Service Sector Growth Slows
The service sector grew for a sixth consecutive month in July but the pace of expansion slowed. The Institute for Supply Management said its monthly nonmanufacturing index fell to 53.1 in July, the lowest since January. C3.

U.S. Reassures Brazil on Aid
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil, left, has received assurances from Treasuary Secretary Paul H. O'Neill that the United States would support its negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. Brazil's currency has plummeted, aggravating a credit crunch on international markets that is hurting Brazilian companies. C4.

New Quest for 'Lord of the Rings'
The characters of J.R.R. Tolkien captivated movie audiences in "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring," and gave New Line Cinema the highest-grossing film in its history. With the help of a $65 million campaign, New Line expects the DVD and videotape sales to at least match the film's box-office take. Advertising. C5.

Earnings Rise 21% at MetLife
MetLife reported a 21 percent rise in second-quarter profit, but scaled back expectations for the rest of the year. The company said earnings increased to $387 million. C4

Hotel Lore From Female Travelers
Readers offered a bit of advice and stories of their own in responding to a column in which a woman traveling on business compared her experiences at two hotels, one an all-suites brand and the other an airport hotel. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,043 down 269.50Nasdaq composite -- 1,206.01 down 41.9110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.21% down 0.08The euro -- $0.9811 down 0.0064The dollar -- 119.67 yen up 0.59 Graph tracks share prices of Procter & Gamble for the week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (75%); MOVIE REVENUES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (63%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); RAINBOW MEDIA GROUP (55%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



134 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A Distracted China Issues Censure of Taiwan Chief's Remarks 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Distracted by back-room maneuvering over leadership changes here, China has offered little more than a boilerplate response to aggressive statements on relations with Taiwan by its president, Chen Shui-bian, and has suggested that his own constituents may provide the strongest censure of his remarks.
 Li Wei-yi, a spokesman for the Taiwan Affairs Office of China's State Council, issued a statement denouncing Mr. Chen's comments. Mr. Li said that the comments would have ramifications for Taiwan's economy and that they would probably have ramifications for the personal interests of Taiwan residents as well. 
 Mr. Chen said on Saturday that holding a referendum on Taiwan's independence was a "basic human right" and that, in reality, there was "one country on each side" of the Taiwan Strait. 
China has long threatened to use force against Taiwan if it declares outright independence or refuses to agree eventually to reunify with the mainland.
China may yet take some symbolic action to express its displeasure over Mr. Chen's remarks; war games are already planned on the coast opposite Taiwan in the weeks ahead.
But China's condemnation of Taiwan's president centered on an increasingly unavoidable reality in the decades-old standoff between the governments in Beijing and Taipei -- that Taiwan's economy is fast becoming dependent on the mainland.
Already, one quarter of Taiwan's exports go to China, the biggest and fastest-growing market for the island's goods, and nearly all of Taiwan's major businesses now have investments on the mainland, totaling more than $50 billion. 
With the island's economy at low ebb and the economies of its other markets slowing, goading China into punitive action could be economically, if not politically, suicidal for Mr. Chen.
Rebukes were swift. Taiwan's biggest opposition party, the Nationalist Party, which ran Taiwan until 2000, was harshly critical of him, saying he was turning the pro-independence policies of his Democratic Progressive Party into government policy despite having promised to pursue a centrist course in office.
"In this context, it is very risky," said Steven S. F. Chen, Taiwan's top diplomat in the United States until 2000 and now a national security expert at the National Policy Foundation, the Nationalist Party's research center.
Members of President Chen's administration, meanwhile, scrambled to discount the significance of his remarks.
"Do not overinterpret" Mr. Chen's comments, Tsai Ing-wen, chairwoman of Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council, said before leaving on a hastily scheduled trip to the United States to reassure American officials that the island is not pursuing a major shift in strategy. "Taiwan's China policy has not changed."
The United States has long counseled Taiwan against declaring independence, though China renewed its accusation today that Washington has emboldened Taipei with diplomatic support and continued weapons sales. 
President Bush said last year that he would do "whatever it takes" to help Taiwan defend itself against the mainland.
In fact, Mr. Chen's comments, while the strongest since he took office two years ago, did not go beyond the language of a 1999 resolution on Taiwan's future adopted by his Democratic Progressive Party.
Mr. Chen had not repeated that language since he took office, when he promised not to declare statehood or to push for an independence referendum if China would abandon its threat to use force against the island.
But Beijing has not renounced that threat, and some experts believe that Mr. Chen may be taking advantage of China's distraction ahead of the Communist Party's coming congress, at which crucial leadership changes will be decided, to put the language back on the table, pleasing pro-independence forces in Taiwan and putting some pressure on Beijing.
Andrew Yang, the secretary general of the Chinese Council of Advanced Policy Studies, a research center in Taipei, said Mr. Chen appeared to be calculating that China would pay attention to Taiwan only if he speaks strongly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); REFERENDUMS (54%) CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; SHUI-BIAN, CHEN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



135 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: How the States Are Run 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman (column, July 30) indicates that recently many states have been financially run like banana republics, saying "responsibility gave way to political opportunism." In fact, I would argue strongly that over the boom period of 1995-2000, state governments were extremely prudent in their fiscal policies. 
 Aggregate state spending growth averaged only 6.1 percent over this period compared with the 6.5 percent average over the last 20 years. States also managed $27 billion in tax cuts while building almost $50 billion in "rainy day" funds in 2000. 
 While at times states make short-run adjustments, which are not always consistent with good long-term economic policy, that does not make them banana republics. A closer inspection of all the numbers would reveal that our state governments have been effective managers of taxpayers' money.

RAYMOND C. SCHEPPACH
Executive Director
National Governors Association
Washington, Aug. 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAX LAW (68%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; SCHEPPACH, RAYMOND C; WHITMAN, CHRISTIE (ADMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



136 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Footlights 

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
 Visitors
Look for the the acclaimed Donmar Warehouse of London to be setting up shop at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in January. The English company is bringing over its new productions of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" and Brian Friel's version of Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya," both directed by Sam Mendes. In an exclusive United States engagement, a cast featuring Emily Watson, Helen McCrory, Simon Russell Beale and Mark Strong will perform the two classics in repertory from Jan. 10 through Feb. 9. as part of the BAM Harvey Theater's 2003 spring season.

Milestones
When Mark Morris introduced "V" to New York last winter, Anna Kisselgoff of The New York Times called it a life-affirming piece that "is also one of the few great works that modern dance has produced in a decade." From tonight through Sunday, when the Mark Morris Dance Group returns to Jacob's Pillow in Becket, Mass., "V" will be on its program.

Cash and Carriage
Around them, the world was changing. In the aftermath of the Civil War, the United States entered the Gilded Age, a period of swift industrial, economic and military growth in an atmosphere of intense commercialism and materialism. But the women depicted by leading artists seemed unaffected by its turbulence. Spirituality and serenity were their foremost characteristics. Through Aug. 27, in "The Gilded Age: Views of American Women, 1873-1921," the Corcoran Gallery in Washington is tapping its own collection of American art for more than 35 paintings, works on paper and sculpture by artists like John Singer Sargent, Mary Cassatt, Edmund Tarbell and Childe Hassam. Another Corcoran exhibition, "Art and Economics: Sienese Paintings From the Dawn of the Modern Financial Age," looks back to Siena, Italy, between the 13th and 17th centuries. Its focus is biccherne, small panels by leading artists who were commissioned by the Biccherna, the most important financial branch of the government, to create the covers of its semiannual collection of public ledgers. Through Sept. 23, 50 of the panel paintings and 12 related manuscripts will be on view.

Stepping Down
The president of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Henry Fogel, announced yesterday his decision to retire at the end of its 2002-3 season. Mr. Fogel, who turns 60 next month, said that after 18 years, "it was time for a change in my professional life." William H. Strong, chairman of the orchestra's board, will lead a committee to hire a successor by the 2003-4 season. Mr. Fogel oversees the operations of the orchestra, Symphony Center, the Civic Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Chorus, the Chicago Symphony Singers and Symphony Center Presents, a series of classical and jazz attractions. LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); THEATER (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); SCULPTURE (76%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); WOMEN (73%); ART COLLECTING (70%) THEATER; DANCING; ART; MUSIC; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL 

ORGANIZATION: DONMAR WAREHOUSE THEATER (LONDON, ENG); MORRIS, MARK, DANCE GROUP; CORCORAN GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC); CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 

PERSON: SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM (1564-1616); FRIEL, BRIAN; CHEKHOV, ANTON (1860-1904); FOGEL, HENRY; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE; MENDES, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (53%)

TITLE: TWELFTH NIGHT (PLAY); UNCLE VANYA (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



137 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Raises Loan Reserves As 6-Month Profit Falls 7% 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
HSBC, the large banking company based in Britain, said today that its first-half earnings fell 7 percent as it set aside more money to cover bad debts.
 Like other global banks, HSBC is suffering from its exposure to Argentina, and it increased its provision for bad debt 62 percent, to $715 million. 
 But the provision was lower than analysts had expected, while the fall in profit to $3.28 billion was less drastic than had been forecast, leaving the company's shares slightly higher in London on a day when European and United States banking stocks declined. 
"The key point to note is a lack of negative surprises," said Paul Measday, an analyst with the Cazenove brokerage firm.
In the second half of last year, HSBC, , which is Europe's largest banking company in terms of market value, set aside even more money for bad Argentine debt, leading some analysts to conclude that the bank had written off the bulk of its Latin American exposure.
John Bond, the HSBC chairman, told a news conference in Hong Kong that the bank made no provisions for Brazil, which he called a well-managed country. The bank also said it saw no need to revise its already hefty provisions for its Argentine exposure.
HSBC says it does business in 79 countries and argues that this global reach has helped it withstand the shocks of a period in which, according to Mr. Bond, "the unfolding of a number of corporate scandals, particularly in the United States, drove investors to seek capital protection rather than capital growth."
Founded in Hong Kong almost 140 years ago, HSBC is looking to offset falling income in Hong Kong and Europe by strengthening its position in Britain and the United States, where it bought Republic New York in 1999 for $10.3 billion.
It said today that first-half pretax profit in the United States rose 9 percent to $652 million, while its pretax earnings in Europe fell 8 percent in the same period.
HSBC says it is looking for potential acquisitions in Mexico, China and the United States, but bank executives declined to comment today on the status of any discussions. HSBC says it has approached some shareholders in Bital, Mexico's fifth-largest bank and is in talks with Ping An Insurance in China. It has not identified further acquisition targets in the United States.
At a time when many investors are desperately seeking an end to the lurching declines of global stock markets, HSBC offered only a pessimistic assessment.
"It is unlikely that the decline in personal wealth caused by the fall in equity markets can be reversed quickly by macroeconomic policy actions," Mr. Bond said. "Consumers who drove a prolonged period of growth and mitigated the effects of the bursting of the technology and telecoms' bubble are becoming more cautious. Without growth in corporate profitability and investment, a stock market rebound is unlikely." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); SCANDALS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC HOLDINGS LTD 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); 2318 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN BOND (79%) COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



138 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Warlord Pushes for Control Of a Corner of Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: KHOST, Afghanistan, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Padsha Khan Zadran, a warlord as volatile as the region he rules over, is again making trouble for the new central government in Afghanistan -- and this time the government is hinting that it might hit back with force.
 For four days recently, supporters of Mr. Zadran demonstrated in the streets here, intermittently blocking trucks heading north toward Kabul, the capital. There is some question about how large the protests have been, but the message was clear: the protesters shouted for the nation's new president, Hamid Karzai, either to resign or to give some official post to Mr. Zadran. 
 Mr. Karzai's government, under pressure to control lawlessness in Afghanistan's outlands, struck back, in words for now. He issued a statement on Sunday, read on national television, calling Mr. Zadran and his heavily armed men a "group of bandits." But it warned further that the government might be "forced to take any actions deemed necessary to keep the peace and stability."
If Mr. Karzai indeed were to use military force, as his aides say is possible, it would be the first time -- and against a man who has defied him, and the notion of central authority in Afghanistan, repeatedly.
For his part, Mr. Zadran, 50, in an interview today under a mulberry tree and not far away from a box of mortar shells, smiled to the point of baring his silver molars and fairly dared Mr. Karzai to try.
"I don't know who would win if we fought," Mr. Zadran said, near the remains of his old house, bombed by Soviet planes two decades ago, on a dusty path outside Gardez in the southeast. "But he would be betraying Afghanistan."
"He has no power outside of Kabul," he added, referring to Mr. Karzai. "He is a man guarded by Americans. He has no one with him except some soldiers from the north. And now he wants to come fight us?"
Mr. Zadran's taunts stabbed deliberately to the heart of criticism against Mr. Karzai: that, after seven months as Afghanistan's effective leader, confirmed by a national council two months ago, he has yet to take firm control of this fractious nation. Last month, he accepted protection from American bodyguards.
Regional warlords operate freely, including Mr. Zadran in the east, and another, Ismail Khan, near the western city of Herat. Last week Mr. Khan engaged in fighting that some reports said left 50 people dead. 
Omar Samad, a spokesman for Mr. Karzai, said that the government developed a new focus and that "we know where we are heading." 
"But it's going to take time to overcome all the burdens and obstacles -- and part of that is overcoming all the local commanders," he said.
He said the government, so far, has been reluctant to continue Afghanistan's culture of violence. But, in regard to Mr. Zadran and the protests, he said the government may lose patience and "resort to other means -- I'm not going to spell out what other means."
If there is a showdown, it would occur in a place that is already one of the least stable in Afghanistan. Once a center for training camps for Al Qaeda, slammed by American cruise missiles in 1998, this small city near the mountainous border with Pakistan is where American forces have been most active in recent months. 
Indeed Mr. Zadran and his men have played several roles in the American hunt for Taliban and Qaeda forces here. He says 600 of his 6,000 soldiers are in the direct pay of the Americans.
Mr. Zadran's fight with Mr. Karzai stretches back to just after the peace agreement last December in Bonn, which brought the country an interim government and landed Mr. Zadran the job of governor of Paktia Province. But fighting broke out when another local warlord blocked him from taking office in the city of Gardez. 
Then in April, Mr. Zadran sought his revenge, carrying out a rocket attack on Gardez that killed 36 people, including many women and children. 
Since then, there has been an uncomfortable standoff, with Mr. Zadran claiming effective control over three southeastern provinces -- Khost, Paktia and Paktika. Mr. Karzai appointed a new governor of Khost Province, a professor who lived in Australia, and recently appointed a new regional military commander to replace one of Mr. Zadran's younger brothers, Kamal Khan, 28, who held the job for seven months. 
The standoff here is plain to see: Kamal Khan is occupying the governor's quarters and has refused to leave. He is guarded by dozens of his brother's soldiers, who have machine guns and rocket propelled grenades and who, incongruously but by local tradition, wear flowers in their weapons belts. 
"I want to leave," the younger brother said today. "But the people with weapons don't want me to leave."
He was surrounded in his office, decorated with a portrait of Afghanistan's recently returned king, Mohammad Zahir Shah, by nine local elders. They say they are the ones behind the protests here, which they say will continue until their demands are met. 
Those demands include a formal position for Mr. Zadran. They also want a greater say in the central government for ethnic Pashtuns like themselves, who they say have lost out to ethnic Tajiks under Mr. Karzai, who is himself Pashtun. 
"If they want to resolve this peacefully, we will accept that," said one of the elders, Zamil Khan. "Otherwise we will fight until they recognize Padsha Khan Zadran as head of the region."
On Sunday, the king himself issued a statement asking Mr. Zadran to back down.
"I declare openly that anybody anywhere who wants to disturb peace in this country, Padsha Khan Zadran or anybody else in any province of Afghanistan, do not have and will not have our support in any form," he wrote.
Even some of Mr. Zadran's supporters are worried. Today, he received a delegation of educated men from Khost -- doctors and engineers mostly -- who said they supported his goals but begged him not to push his struggle militarily. 
"Tonight we will try to convince him not to fight," said Wazir Padshah, 45, an economist on his way to a large dinner with Mr. Zadran. "We are afraid if they don't give him a position, he will fight. 
"This transitional government is not stable," he added. "If this fighting happens, it might collapse."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The warlord Padsha Khan Zadran, top, talked on a satellite phone yesterday outside Gardez. Also yesterday, a delegation of men from Khost arrived to talk to Mr. Zadran about avoiding a fight with the government. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) Map of Afghanistan highlights Khost: Supporters of Padsha Khan Zadran protested recently in Khost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); POLITICS (70%); TERRORISM (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%) FISHER, IAN; ZADRAN, PADSHA KHAN; KARZAI, HAMID (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (58%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) AFGHANISTAN; KHOST (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



139 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Trailing in Polls, German Leader Tries Early Start in Race 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, his party trailing badly in the opinion polls, opened his campaign for re-election today, three weeks early, pledging to protect "the little guy" and warning against "playing around with war or military action" in Iraq.
 Mr. Schroder, appearing combative at a rally of 10,000 people in his hometown, Hanover, tried to give new life to his lagging prospects, badly damaged by a weak economy and high unemployment. 
 With his conservative opponent, Edmund Stoiber, thought to be the better economic manager, Mr. Schroder today presented himself as a wiser head in foreign policy, repeatedly questioning the wisdom of military action in Iraq. 
"I warn against speculating about war and military action and tell those who are making plans for such actions to think not only about how they are going in, but to have a political concept," he said.
"We are ready for solidarity, but this land will not be prepared for adventures, as long as I'm in control," he continued. "I believe we should keep up the pressure on Saddam Hussein, yes. But I'm not for playing around with war or military action."
The world's economy, he said, "is in no state to take on new burdens."
Mr. Schroder introduced a new theme, stressing "the German way," giving his campaign a bit of nationalist flavor and reminding some political experts of Willy Brandt's line: "Germans, we can be proud of our country."
In private, German officials say that Berlin will be with the United States on Iraq -- so long as the Bush administration makes its case publicly about the dangers of weapons of mass destruction, honestly pursues unconditional weapons inspections through the United Nations and seeks a new resolution authorizing military action from the United Nations Security Council.
Agreement on those conditions is shared among the major European nations, including Britain, the most pro-American of them. Still, no one expects the Germans to fight in Iraq.
The focus on Iraq is essentially about domestic politics, said Michael Werz, a political scientist at the University of Hanover, the capital of Lower Saxony, where Mr. Schroder was governor before becoming chancellor in 1998.
"Schroder and the Social Democrats are desperate to run a more polarized campaign versus Stoiber," Mr. Werz said, and are using Iraq to shore up support on the left and attract those who might vote for the former Communists. Mr. Stoiber, though expressing his own doubts about how big a threat to Germany Iraq represents, has regularly called for closer and less confrontational relations with the United States.
Mr. Stoiber's foreign-policy spokesman, Wolfgang Schauble, has criticized Mr. Schroder for making Iraq a campaign issue at a time when the world should be united with the United States in putting pressure on Iraq to open up to unconditional arms inspections. But pressure must be accompanied, Mr. Schauble says, by a credible threat of military action. That means, he said today, that nobody should say now "that we will never take part in military action."
Mr. Schroder, who had planned to start his formal election a month before the Sept. 22 vote, was driven to start early by the polls, where he is trailing the conservative parties by a steady 5 to 7 percentage points. But Germans prefer the media-savvy Mr. Schroder personally over Mr. Stoiber, a relatively colorless man who is stressing his economic competence as the leader of Bavaria. 
"The situation is still shaky for Stoiber," Mr. Werz said. "Stoiber is utterly boring, and nobody really likes him, and his strategy is to say little of any interest."
In the first of his visits to close to 50 German cities, Mr. Schroder promised a strong battle to the finish, saying, "I'm utterly convinced that a signal will go out from here: The Social Democrats are getting ready to battle."
But his current coalition partners, the Greens, are struggling with about 7 percent of the vote, not enough to recreate the existing "red green" coalition even if Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats beat the conservatives.
The resignation of Gregor Gysi, the leader of the Party for Democratic Socialism, the reformed East German Communists, has hurt their chances of remaining over the 5 percent of the vote required to get seats in Parliament. Mr. Gysi, charismatic and funny, was the only prominent party figure and the only one popular among younger voters and in western Germany, which has four times the east's population.
He resigned over a scandal about the use of air miles for personal trips, and quit his job as the economics minister in the city of Berlin, too, where he was replaced today by Harald Wolf, the party's parliamentary leader.
"If the P.D.S. falls out below the threshold, the beneficiary will be the Social Democrats," said Richard Hilmer, director of the Infratest Dimap polling group. With at least 26 percent of the electorate still undecided, he said, "the options are still open, but Schroder must convince voters that he really has a chance and the will to fix things."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INSPECTIONS (65%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (63%) ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) STOIBER, EDMUND; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) GERMANY; HANOVER (GER)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



140 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: O'Neill Encourages Brazil in I.M.F. Talks 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: BRASILIA, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Amid signs that the Bush administration is easing its resistance to bailing out crisis-ridden Latin American economies, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill assured Brazil's president today of Washington's support in its negotiations with the International Monetary Fund.
 Meeting here, Mr. O'Neill and President Fernando Henrique Cardoso held what the American described as "cordial and very useful" talks about how to help Brazil cope with its worst financial crisis since the sharp devaluation of its currency, the real, in 1999. 
 With some investors increasingly nervous that elections in October could end in victory for a left-wing candidate, the real has plummeted to record lows in recent weeks, settling in New York late today at 33.15 cents, up from 32.44 cents on Friday. 
This has aggravated a credit squeeze on international markets that is pushing Brazilian companies so hard that many analysts predict a series of corporate defaults. Last week, as the crisis worsened, Brazil dispatched negotiators to Washington to lobby for I.M.F. support.
"I repeated President Bush's strong support for Brazil," Mr. O'Neill said today after his meeting with Mr. Cardoso. "We support the discussions the Brazilian authorities are now having with the I.M.F."
"As the largest economy in Latin America, Brazil's success is important to the economic success of the entire hemisphere," he added. "Brazil has the right economic policies in place to maintain stability."
Just a week ago, Mr. O'Neill was less than enthusiastic about coming to Brazil's aid. He helped add to a sense of market panic by suggesting that there could be no fresh aid to sorely pressed Latin American economies unless there were guarantees that the money would not be diverted to Swiss bank accounts, presumably of corrupt officials.
Those off-the-cuff remarks infuriated Brazilian business executives and set off a diplomatic spat. The Brazilian foreign ministry summoned the United States ambassador, Donna J. Hrinak, to explain the remarks, and the weekly business magazine Istoe Dinheiro put the Treasury secretary on its cover with the headline, "O'Neill, Brazil Doesn't Want You Here." An article inside described him as a loose cannon who on several occasions has offended and damaged the country.
In speeches here today, Mr. O'Neill praised economic changes that Mr. Cardoso introduced over the last eight years. These have brought stability and large amounts of foreign investment. More recently, though, economic growth has been disappointing.
Brazilian officials who met with Mr. O'Neill when he arrived in Rio de Janeiro on Sunday night were upbeat about the visit, but none risked predicting the outcome of the talks with the I.M.F. And the currency's value failed to rally in any notable way.
Many analysts are skeptical that the I.M.F. will provide any fresh funds without a pledge from all the election candidates to continue a tight fiscal policy and to try to keep inflation low.
But the two leading candidates, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of the Workers Party and Ciro Gomes of the Labor Front, have refused to make any such pledge, saying that until after the elections, the economy is the government's responsibility.
Mr. O'Neill will leave Brazil on Tuesday for visits to the two other crisis economies in the region, Uruguay and Argentina. Washington has agreed to provide $1.5 billion in interim financing to Uruguay to keep its banks afloat until additional I.M.F. loans can be arranged, but it has yet to help Argentina, which at the beginning of the year defaulted on most payments on its $141 billion debt.
The hastily assembled aid package for Uruguay has been seen by some analysts as an easing of the Bush administration's philosophical opposition to bailing out emerging economies in trouble, unless like Turkey, they are deemed to be of strategic importance in American efforts against terrorism.
"It's not a lot of money, but it is highly symbolic in terms of a change in attitude," Douglas Smith, a New York-based independent consultant and former Treasury official, said of the interim loan to Uruguay. "This administration came to office vocally opposing such handouts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill in Brasilia yesterday on his way to discussions with President Fernando Enrique Cardoso. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); LOBBYING (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); CORRUPTION (50%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SMITH, TONY; O'NEILL, PAUL (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%) BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



141 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: The Memory Hole 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Winston Smith, the protagonist of George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four," was a rewrite man. His job was to destroy documents that could undermine the government's pretense of infallibility, and replace them with altered versions.
 Lately, Winston Smith has gone to Washington. I'm sure that lots of history is being falsified as you read this -- there are several three-letter agencies I don't trust at all -- but two cases involving the federal budget caught my eye. 
 First is the "Chicago line." Shortly after Sept. 11, George W. Bush told his budget director that the only valid reasons to break his pledge not to run budget deficits would be if the country experienced recession, war or national emergency. "Lucky me," he said. "I hit the trifecta."
When I first reported this remark, angry readers accused me of inventing it. Mr. Bush, they said, is a decent man who would never imply that the nation's woes had taken him off the hook, let alone make a joke out of it. 
Soon afterward, the trifecta story became part of Mr. Bush's standard stump speech. It always gets a roar of appreciative laughter from Republican audiences.
So what's the Chicago line? In his speeches, Mr. Bush claims to have laid out the criteria for running a deficit when visiting Chicago during the 2000 campaign. But there's no evidence that he said anything of the sort during the campaign, in Chicago or anywhere else; certainly none of the reporters who were with him can remember it. (The New Republic, which has tracked the claim, titled one of its pieces "Stop him before he lies again.") In fact, during the campaign his budget promises were unqualified, for good reason. If he had conceded that future surpluses were not guaranteed, voters might have wondered whether it was wise to lock in a 10-year tax cut.
About that 10-year tax cut: It basically takes place in two phases. Phase I, which has mainly happened already, is a smallish tax cut for the middle class. Phase II, which won't be completed until 2010, is a considerably larger cut that goes mostly to the richest 1 percent of taxpayers.
That two-phase structure offers substantial opportunities for misdirection. If someone suggests reconsidering future tax cuts, the administration can accuse him of wanting to raise taxes in a recession -- implying, falsely, that he wants to reverse Phase I rather than simply call off Phase II. On the other hand, if someone says that tax cuts have worsened the budget picture, the administration can say that tax cuts explain only 15 percent of the move into deficit. This sounds definitive, but in fact it refers only to the impact of Phase I on this year's budget; by the administration's own estimates, 40 percent of the $4 trillion deterioration in the 10-year outlook is due to tax cuts.
There is, however, an art to this sort of deception: you have to imply the falsehood without actually saying it outright. Last month the Office of Management and Budget got sloppy: it issued a press release stating flatly that tax cuts were responsible for only 15 percent of the 10-year deterioration. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities noticed, and I reported it here.
Now for the fun part. The O.M.B. reacted angrily, and published a letter in The Times attacking me. It attributed the misstatement to "error," and declared that it had been "retracted." Was it?
It depends on what you mean by the word "retract." As far as anyone knows, O.M.B. didn't issue a revised statement conceding that it had misinformed reporters and giving the right numbers. It simply threw the embarrassing document down the memory hole. As Brendan Nyhan pointed out in Salon, if you go to the O.M.B.'s Web site now you find a press release dated July 12 that is not the release actually handed out on that date. There is no indication that anything has been changed, but the bullet point on sources of the deficit is gone. 
Every government tries to make excuses for its past errors, but I don't think any previous U.S. administration has been this brazen about rewriting history to make itself look good. For this kind of thing to happen you have to have politicians who have no qualms about playing Big Brother; officials whose partisan loyalty trumps their professional scruples; and a press corps that, with some honorable exceptions, lets the people in power get away with it.
Lucky us: we hit the trifecta. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



142 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Economy Stirs G.O.P. Worry In House Races 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Rising voter concern about the nation's future, driven by an unsteady economy and unrest on Wall Street, is stirring nervousness among some Republicans and lifting confidence among Democratic leaders that their party could capture control of the House in November. That turn of events had seemed impossible two months ago.
 Although Republican leaders noted the considerable obstacles the party out of power faces in winning back the House for the first time since 1994 -- starting with the fact that so few seats are in play -- they expressed concern today about a gathering election climate that some argued could favor what had once seemed an improbable Democratic quest. 
 The factors behind the perceived shift include a spike in the number of Americans who told pollsters that the nation was heading in the wrong direction, a slight but steady erosion in the popularity of President Bush and rising disapproval of Congress over the last month. 
"Up through late May and early June, through WorldCom, I was arguing that we were looking at the most pro-incumbent environment that I've seen in a 22-year career," said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster who has conducted regular national polls of the electorate this year. "What has happened is that, because of WorldCom and the stock market collapse, these key tracking numbers have changed very quickly. We are looking at a much more traditional off-year election -- which means the House is in play. Which I never really believed in June."
A senior Republican strategist involved in a number of Congressional campaigns, who asked not to be identified, said today: "The map has changed. The House is a much more competitive environment."
Other Republicans expressed similar concerns, though not so starkly, saying they believed that Republicans would ultimately be able to ride out this period. "The Democrats have a real opportunity here," said Stuart Stevens, who was Mr. Bush's media adviser in 2000. But, Mr. Stevens said, he did not believe they would be able to take advantage of it. "They are flailing around."
But Democrats have showed increasing if measured signs of confidence in recent days. Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, said in an interview that Democrats were "gaining in optimism" and that as of now he thought many House elections would turn not on Mr. Bush's handling of the war in Afghanistan, but on the state of the economy and Wall Street.
Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said: "Something is happening out there that is putting a nice wind at our back. It's not a cyclone yet, but I think it's a strong wind. And let's face it, for most of the cycle, we were really going against the wind."
To a certain extent, these public expressions of confidence by Democratic leaders are calculated. The suggestion that victory is within reach is likely to lift Democratic fund-raising totals, which have lagged significantly behind those of Republicans, and rally Democratic voters as the parties head into the fall campaign.
"They do this every two years," Representative Thomas M. Davis III, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in an interview. "We're looking at this race by race. We're not seeing any big-picture trends. Honestly, we are seeing no evidence of it."
Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, said he had found unwavering support among voters for Republican Congressional candidates. "Their claims are without any factual support in individual races," Mr. Mehlman said of the Democrats.
Yet the statements reflect an atmosphere that is unsettled in a way that has historically spelled difficulties for incumbents in general, and Republicans in particular.
Most recently, in a poll of 721 registered voters taken last week for National Public Radio by a polling consortium that included Mr. McInturff and a Democratic polling firm led by Stanley Greenberg, the number of respondents who said the nation had "seriously gotten off on the wrong track" jumped to 56 percent from 39 percent in one month. An increase in the number of people who say the nation is headed in the wrong direction is usually a matter of concern for the party in power.
The percentage of voters who disapprove of Congress jumped to 40 percent from 31 percent during that same time. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.
With the nation at war and led by an extraordinarily popular chief executive, it had appeared until now that the election of 2002 would defy what had been for a century a near-certainty in American midterm elections: The party of the president suffers significant losses in Congress. Democrats argued that the campaign could thus be reverting to a more traditional form.
"This is a pretty strong historical trend out there," Mr. Gephardt said. "And if you add to that that people are unhappy about the economic situation, and about some of the things that the Republicans have tried to do on Social Security, or that they failed to do on prescription drugs and corporate responsibility, it can add up to a trend."
The election in the House has drawn the most spirited discussion among political leaders here in recent days, although the future of the Senate, which Democrats control by a single seat, is hardly settled. Members of both parties said that the Democrats seemed likely to retain or increase their control in the Senate, largely because of the same national forces that are fueling Democratic hopes in the House.
For all the political forces that Democrats argue are turning in their favor, the task of winning back the House would require the party to thread a very narrow eye of a needle. There are 222 Republicans, 210 Democrats, 2 independents and 1 vacancy in the House. The Republicans enjoy an advantage that comes from having many Congressional district lines redrawn this year by Republican-controlled legislatures, so most Republican members of Congress are not spending the hot summer months worrying about the season ahead.
Amy Walter, an analyst for The Cook Political Report, said she now listed 39 House seats as competitive, of which 11 are held by Democrats and 19 by Republicans, and the remaining 9 vacant or new seats created by redistricting. That means the Democrats would have to win two-thirds of those seats to become the party in power next year. To complicate matters for Democrats, Ms. Walter said that three seats held by Democrats who are departing were considered likely to be taken over by Republicans.
What is more, the Democrats' best-laid plans could be upended in a moment by any event that might turn the nation's attention overseas again. James Jordan, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, made half-joking reference to that today when he asked if he was worried that an October surprise -- an incident orchestrated by the White House to affect the November elections -- could be in the offing.
"You mean when General Rove calls in the airstrikes in mid-October?" Mr. Jordan said, referring to Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior political adviser.
Democrats argued that their best hope for winning the House is that concerns about the nation's economy and future turn the election into a referendum on the party in power.
Republicans say they have seen no evidence of that to date. Still, in expressing confidence that they would hold the House, party leaders pointed not to the national mood, but rather to political, fund raising and demographic forces that have created a political fire wall for Republicans.
"I've seen grim off-years and we're a thousand miles from that," Mr. McInturff said. "Thank goodness for the Republicans that there are far fewer competitive seats than there normally are in a reapportionment year, and that they are well-funded."
Several Republican leaders today expressed relief that Republicans on the Hill had moved aggressively to try to neutralize many issues that Mr. Gephardt wants to use in the elections, from reversing course to agree on a Democratic bill on corporate governance to proposing their own version of a prescription drug benefit bill for elder Americans. "Over the last couple of weeks, House Republicans passed prescription drugs, a homeland security bill, trade promotion authority and an emergency spending bill that protects our homeland and protects their economy," Mr. Mehlman said. "House Republicans are in a very strong position."
Even Mr. Jordan acknowledged today that the Republicans had had "some success in blurring these issues," although he added, "I don't think it will be enough."
That said, some Republicans said they were not as confident as they were two months ago, and were now closely watching poll numbers for any further signs of erosion of the position of either the party or Mr. Bush. In one particularly telling finding of the National Public Radio poll, the unhappiness with the direction of the nation was highest among women and older Americans, two groups that tend to vote in disproportionately high numbers in off-year elections.
"I would not have said this six months ago, and I may not be saying it two months from now, but I think we can do it," said Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant. "But we have to do a lot of work to get there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ETHICS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NITA M LOWEY (57%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002 



143 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Vacancy RateAside, a Tower Rises in Austin

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Tim Hendricks, a Dallas native who fell in love with Austin after a brief job at the State Legislature and a series of real estate courses at the University of Texas, is pressing every connection he has made in half a lifetime of dinners and weekends.
 And Cousins Properties, a real estate investment trust based in Atlanta, is counting on his connections with law firms and lobbyists here to make a success of a major commercial real estate project that is moving under full sail but into uncertain waters. 
 It is called Congress at Fourth, a 33-story tower with 524,000 rentable square feet of office space spread over 22 floors and set atop an 11-story parking garage. Construction workers have put up nearly half the parking section in the 96-degree heat, and by late 2003 they will have built the tallest structure in Austin -- one distinctive for its glass exterior alone, and which will change the face of the downtown district where Sam Houston once pitched his tepee by Town Lake and walked to work as governor. 
The project has a lot going for it, in terms of zoning variances, permits and fee waivers, but Cousins is missing one basic thing that Mayor Gustavo L. Garcia, who says he is no real estate expert and no economist, identified without hesitation.
"Demand," Mr. Garcia said. "Can downtown office space absorb 500,000 square feet? Investors are better judges of that than we are."
Cousins bought the property and started building from its own cash reserves. By paying cash, Cousins avoided the preleasing requirements that have become imperative for developers since the crash in real estate prices that followed the demise of the savings and loan industry.
So far, Mr. Hendricks, 46, a senior vice president of Cousins, has signed only three tenants -- two law firms and a contractor -- for a total of 90,000 square feet, or about 18 percent of the office space.
He plans to market the space as worth more than that of any existing building downtown. His building, he said, "will be a beacon for downtown Austin as it continues to evolve into a world-class central business district."
Mr. Hendricks declined to discuss any aspect of the building's financing, but people with direct involvement in the transactions said the total cost of development runs from $250 to $260 a rentable square foot, or $125 million to $130 million -- about 10 percent of Cousins's market capitalization.
The company, best known for the Bank of America Tower in downtown Atlanta, has a reputation for holding its projects as long-term investments, often finding an equity partner after construction and leasing are well under way.
Vacancy rates for the most desirable office space in Austin's 7.6-million-square-foot central business district, including sublease space, have risen to 21 percent as of June from 13.4 percent a year before and 4.9 percent (not including sublease space) in 2000, according to Capitol Market Research, an economics firm here. Average annual asking rents have fallen 18 percent since December, to $27.06 from $32.96.
Jeffrey Munger, director of research for Holliday Fenoglio Fowler, a unit of LendLease Real Estate Investments, said the Cousins project exemplifies an economic incentive to build in spite of the high vacancy rates in places like Austin, where permit processes are rigorous.
"Austin is probably the most difficult market to build in in Texas, in terms of building controls, environmental regulation, protection of strange animals you've never seen before," Mr. Munger said. "But at the same time, you've got the development psyche that permeates from Houston and Dallas and in this case, Atlanta."
Cousins did not become involved in the project until the site had been assembled and all the permit work and other dealing with government agencies had been done. A local developer, Tom Stacy -- along with a partner named Will Wynn, who backed away from the project when he successfully ran for the City Council -- acquired the block between Fourth and Fifth Streets on the east side of Congress Avenue in 1999 and briefly explored building on it themselves. They then unsuccessfully tried to sell it to Equity Office, a major national real estate investment trust, but the obstacles to development were significant.
There was an alley that could not be breached and a limit on height to protect the view of the Capitol building. Then there was an existing lease on a two-story building occupied by the Mexic-Arte Museum, a downtown foothold for Hispanic culture.
Over more than a year, Mr. Stacy gained all the zoning variances, along with fee waivers from the city, which is trying to counter sprawl with incentives for downtown construction. His partnership, known as Block 42, sold the property to Cousins in January 2001.
"They closed knowing the market was in a downward cycle," Mr. Stacy said.
Another developer, Carr America, opened a 446,391-square-foot office tower a few blocks away at 300 West Sixth Street last January, and the vacancy rate there is 35 percent. 
Mr. Hendricks will also face competition from existing landlords, who can afford to undercut him on asking rents. Almost all the buildings in downtown Austin changed hands in the early 1990's, at prices then below $116 a square foot. Brokers expect Mr. Hendricks to ask $33 to $38 annually per square foot, compared with current prices in the most expensive space in the central business district of $27 to $33.
"You're looking at a building whose development cost is roughly twice the acquisition cost of the competition," said Michael A. Kennedy, president of Commercial Texas, a tenant representation firm. And, he added, "When everybody's battening down the hatches, it doesn't play real well to move into the newest, biggest thing."
But Mr. Hendricks said he was counting on winning over traditional Austin tenants, lobbyists and lawyers whose leases will expire around the time his building opens.
"Once you start a high-rise, and you are a private developer," he said, "you can't stop."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Congress at Fourth, a 33-story structure, under construction in Austin, Tex., with artist's rendering of the completed building in the foreground. (Frank Curry for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ZONING (76%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); MAYORS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%) COUSINS PROPERTIES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) AUSTIN (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



144 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; 
Russia Agrees to Work With OPEC on Pricing

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Russia, the second-largest oil exporter, agreed today to help OPEC maintain oil prices but offered no new promises to reduce its exports.
 The secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Alvaro Silva Calderon, on a one-day visit to Moscow, met today with the Russian energy minister, Igor K. Yusufov. 
 While no agreement was expected, the meeting was closely watched because of its timing -- it comes shortly before a September gathering of OPEC members that will determine output levels. 
Russia, while not a member of OPEC, has played a crucial role in the cartel's decisions. It has steadily increased oil output, taking market share away from OPEC.
As oil prices sagged last autumn, Russia, in the midst of an oil boom, aggravated OPEC by increasing production. It finally agreed, along with two other nonmembers, Norway and Mexico, to trim exports for the first half of the year. Analysts were skeptical that Russia actually carried out the cuts.
Mr. Yusufov said today that "the need for such limits has fallen away."
Mr. Silva, for his part, played down past tensions with Russia and dismissed Russian concerns that OPEC would increase exports to drive down the price and take back market share, something that an OPEC official hinted at last month. 
"We don't have a price war, no country can imagine such a situation," said Mr. Silva in comments carried by Dow Jones news service. 
The price of oil has remained high enough to allow OPEC to avoid propping up prices. Less crude oil from Iraq has also buoyed prices, after a pricing dispute under United Nations sanctions reduced the number of buyers for Iraqi oil.
But with continued weakness in the American economy, demand remains unclear.
OPEC is "maintaining its contacts with Russia as no one knows what 2003 will bring," said Gary N. Ross, chief executive of the PIRA Energy Group, an energy consulting firm in New York. 
Russia has continued to increase its exports and production. Russian executives like Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, chief of Yukos Oil, expect Russia's output to rise to 9 million barrels a day from about 7 million in the next few years.
In July, exports were 3.25 million barrels a day, up from last year's 3 million a day for January to July.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since February 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MARKET SHARE (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (63%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



145 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Investors Capitalize on Bargains And Give Sagging Markets a Lift

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
After three days of sharp declines, stocks shot higher yesterday as bargain hunters stepped in to buy recently downtrodden shares.
 All three main gauges were up about 5 percent during the day but gave back much of those gains in the last half-hour of trading. The late sell-off was another indication that investors were only picking up stocks at low prices and remain tentative about the outlook for the market. 
 The indexes ended the day with gains of 2.9 percent or more, with the Nasdaq composite index leading the way with a surge of 4.4 percent. But the rally recovered only part of the losses since last Thursday, when the market began to decline on fears that the economy was slowing or even heading back into recession. 
"It seems to me that the market is being buffeted by decisions by institutional investors, some who see this as a buying opportunity and some who are using rallies to lighten up on stocks," said Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities. "I think we are going to be bouncing around here for a while with a lot of volatility."
The rally may help calm some investors who think that the market has found a bottom. But doubts about the economy's strength will persist, and another negative report could jolt the market again. In addition, the large moves up and down are no doubt unsettling to many investors.
Though there has been much talk about the possibility of a double-dip recession the last few days, most Wall Street economists are merely cutting their growth projections for the second half of the year rather than predicting a recession.
Still, the fear of slowing growth has led analysts and investors to bet that Federal Reserve policy makers will cut their benchmark short-term interest rate in the months ahead to assure that growth will continue. That projection may also provide some comfort to investors, even if there has been no signal from the Fed of such intentions.
Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet on Tuesday, and investors are sure to be looking for some kind of signal that the Fed will cut rates if the economy shows more signs of weakness. Without such a signal, stocks could fall again.
At the close, the Dow was up 230.46 points, or 2.9 percent, at 8,274.09, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 24.97 points, or 3 percent, to 859.57. Still, both indexes are below the levels they had fallen to last Friday. The Nasdaq index was up 53.54 points, or 4.4 percent, to 1,259.55, just more than 11 points above where it was on Friday.
Stocks in Asia declined yesterday but climbed higher in Europe when they opened and added to their gains after the rally began on Wall Street. The DAX index in Germany rose 7.1 percent, while the CAC index in France increased 5.4 percent.
The dollar also rose against the euro as European investors found the American market attractive. In late trading in New York, the euro settled at 96.51 cents, down from 98.11 cents on Monday. The dollar also rose against the Japanese yen, climbing to 120.67 yen from 119.67 Monday.
In the bond market, yields rose and prices fell as many investors apparently moved money back into stocks. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 4.33 percent, from 4.21 percent on Monday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped a full point, to 1046/32 . The yield on the two-year note, which is sensitive to expectations of Fed rate cuts, rose to 2.04 percent after falling to a record low of 1.89 percent on Monday.
Many economists think that the recent decline in interest rates will help offset the negative effects of the plunge in stocks on consumers. But because bond yields have tended recently to rise when stocks rally and fall when stocks decline, the benefit of these lower rates could be taken away quickly.
Among the downtrodden stocks that rallied yesterday were General Electric, Citigroup, AT&T, American Express and Intel, each rising 5 percent or more. They were up even more earlier in the day and helped push the Dow up by almost 375 points at its peak. The shares of all five companies had fallen 12 percent or more from Thursday through Monday. 
The stocks of two troubled energy companies, Dynegy, down 41 percent in the recent rout, and the Williams Companies, off 21 percent, gained 8 percent or more yesterday. TMP Worldwide, the advertising company that was off 23 percent in the previous three sessions, was up 8.5 percent yesterday.
Technology stocks also surged, helping bring the Nasdaq back from a more than five-year low on Monday. It was up 73 points at its peak. Tellabs, the maker of voice, data and network access systems, which was down 19 percent during the recent decline, and Conexant, a semiconductor company, off 25 percent, increased more than 11 percent yesterday.
One of the forces pushing stocks higher is pension funds, some analysts said. Many funds have lost a lot of their value because of the slump in stocks. This decline has in turn altered the weight of stocks compared with bonds within the portfolios. In some cases, analysts said, the percentage of stocks in any given portfolio, often about 60 percent of its value, has dropped below that level. Because of this, pension fund managers are buying stocks to return to that level.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.870
High Rate: 1.675
Coupon Yield: 1.675
Low Rate: 1.640
Median Rate: 1.665
Total applied for: $54,824,350
Accepted: $23,446,800
Noncompetitive: $38,043

The four-week bills mature on Sept. 5.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.552
High Yield: 3.348%
Low Yield: 3.230%
Median Yield: 3.319%
Total applied for: $42,148,271
Accepted: $25,395,876
Noncompetitive: $394,251
Interest set at: 3 1/4

The five-year notes mature on Aug. 15, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Geraci, of SG Cowen Securities, was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday for the opening bell before stocks rallied sharply. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%) NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



146 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Long Hike and Yetis, Too? Abominable; 
Bhutan Official Seeks New York Sponsors for a Himalayan Walk

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
In the faraway kingdom of Bhutan, lost in the mists and mountains between India and China, the royal ministers know a thing or two about New Yorkers. One thing they know is that New Yorkers, and Americans in general, are very good at walking, running or cycling for a cause, or supporting others who do. 
 That explains why Dr. Sangay Thinley, the kingdom's secretary of health and education, was in New York last week looking for help. His political boss, the minister of health, is somewhere in the Himalayan hills training for what must be one of the most audacious hikes for a cause ever conceived: a 350-mile marathon across the kingdom along a mule track over mountain passes more than 13,000 feet high. The minister still needs sponsors. 
 The goal is to build up a $24 million trust fund to finance one of the world's most challenged village health systems. It can take hours or days to trudge to the nearest doctor or nurse, and kerosene generators keep the vaccines and medicines cold before they hit the trail in ice packs. 
Now AIDS, which is spreading rapidly in the region, has made an appearance in Bhutan. A vigorous education program has been created to alert vulnerable people in Bhutan, a Buddhist kingdom where there are few sexual taboos. 
Bhutan, slightly bigger than Switzerland, and more rugged, has only two major roads, and they were built in the last 25 years. Long-distance walking is something older Bhutanese did a lot of, from necessity. But this trek for health is something else. 
"I think in the history of Bhutan, this is the first fund-raising walk being carried out," said Dr. Thinley, who has a master's degree in public health from Tulane University. When he goes home, he has a three-hour walk from the nearest road to his house in eastern Bhutan.
Such challenges don't stop the Bhutanese from worrying about going soft. In the capital, Thimphu (population 60,000), people are riding in cars, eating too much and watching television instead of exercising, Dr. Thinley said. 
As Dr. Thinley made his rounds in New York, he looked up old friends of Bhutan first, wherever they could be found. 
There were some business leaders on his list, among them Frank G. Wisner, vice chairman for external affairs at the American International Group, one of the world's largest insurance companies. Mr. Wisner got to know Bhutan when he was American ambassador to India. The corporate world produced a few checks.
Dr. Thinley had the addresses of some physicians who had visited Bhutan and had an interest in health issues there. They pledged him support. 
He also tried to find David Stern, commissioner of the National Basketball Association, another visitor to Bhutan, a landlocked country where not many tourists venture. Mr. Stern was out of town, but Kathleen Behrens, the N.B.A.'s vice president of communications, welcomed Dr. Thinley and took note of his cause.
Then there was a meeting with Richard Gere, the actor, who has been a generous friend of Tibet and Himalayan Buddhism. He was asked to help spread the word about the hike.
The health minister, Lyngpo Sangay Ngedup, loaded down with a 55-pound backpack containing all his rations and a small tent, is going to start his trek from the eastern town of Tashigang to Thimphu on Sept. 25 in the company of a private secretary and four hapless underlings from his ministry, Dr. Thinley said. 
There will be no porters or cooks or flunkies, making this a very un-Himalayan expedition. Two security officers will tag along. They won't have human enemies to worry about.
"It could be bears," said Ambassador Om Pradhan, Bhutan's envoy to the United Nations and the only high-ranking Bhutanese diplomat in the United States, since the kingdom has no formal diplomatic ties with Washington. "We have leopards, we have wild boars, we have tigers -- and we have yeti-like creatures, the smaller yeti and the bigger yeti -- but all these will not normally attack. But if you suddenly come across a bear . . . ."
"And snakes you will have," added Dr. Thinley, who mercifully for him has been declared unfit for the trek. Asked about the age of the health minister, Lyngpo Sangay -- lyngpo is a title something like "sir," bestowed by the king, Jigme Singye Wangchuck -- the Bhutanese in New York huddled.
"He has completed four cycles, but not the fifth," Dr. Thinley said. Bhutanese measure ages in 12-year cycles. It was decided that the health minister was 50.
Bhutan, a country whose population is estimated by its government at fewer than 700,000 people (the United Nations estimate is higher, around two million), has done well in developing health care, given the geographical hurdles and the poverty of a still cashless economy in some regions. Childhood immunization is now effectively universal, and maternal mortality has been halved in a decade.
The United Nations reported this year in its annual Human Development Report that between 80 and 94 percent of Bhutanese now have access to essential drugs, compared with fewer than 50 percent of Indians. Nearly 70 percent of Bhutanese have adequate sanitation. Only 31 percent of Indians and 27 percent of Nepalis have basic latrines or toilets.
Lyngpo Sangay, the health minister, has recently been active in the Global Aids Vaccine Initiative, since there have been four deaths from AIDS in Bhutan. His education program, alerting Bhutanese to the potential spread of the disease from India, Nepal and Thailand, places where some Bhutanese travel, has kept the disease from spreading, Dr. Thinley said. 
Because of Bhutan's progress in health -- and its reputation for not accepting foreign aid without being sure it will be put to good use -- the Bhutan Health Trust Fund, established four years ago to make the system self-sustaining and safe from budgetary fluctuations, has already attracted some big donors.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation gave $1 million, as have the Summit Foundation in Washington and the combined grants of the governments of Norway and New Zealand. The Royal Bhutanese government kicked in with about $12 million, and the minuscule Bhutanese private sector, in a country where per capita income is around $400 a year, raised $21,391. 
The fund's progress is followed on a Web site, www.move4health.gov.bt. Information is also available from the Bhutan Foundation, a recently founded channel for contributions, (212) 826-1919. 
But the health ministry is still $9 million short, Dr. Thinley said. 
"That's where the fund-raising walk came in," he said. "We were thinking a little bit big, targeting big foundations and governments. But now we think that individual contributions are equally important. Any sponsorship in any amount we would like to request, from individuals, families, communities, organizations.
"The walk is 560 kilometers. Then it's going to take 15 days. We estimate that they will be spending 8 to 10 hours walking every day. So people can sponsor on a kilometer basis, a day-to-day basis or an hourly basis."
One uncertainty lurks. The old mule trail across the mountains has no signposts. "The majority of the time they will be in the jungles following the old track," Dr. Thinley said. "We believe it will be quite difficult.
"They went for a trial run from Thimphu to Wangdue Phodrang, and actually they got lost on the way. They had to cross a stream 12 or 13 times because they couldn't find the road." 
The government is asking the villages for relay guides.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The health minister's walk across Bhutan will end at Thimphu, southeast of Mount Chomo Lhari, above, 24,000 feet high. The goal is to build up a $24 million trust fund to finance health systems. (Izzet Keribar/Lonely Planet Images) Map of India: The fund-raising hike will cross 13,000-foot mountain passes. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HIKING (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); CYCLING (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); RELIGION (51%); INSURANCE (50%); BASKETBALL (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%)

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; THINLEY, SANGAY (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); BHUTAN (96%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%) BHUTAN; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



147 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Acampaign to tell restaurant owners that smoke-free environments don't hurt business.

BYLINE:  By John Schwartz 

 BODY:
STANTON A. GLANTZ wants to tell restaurants and bars to go smoke-free -- but he is having trouble getting the word out. 
 Prof. Glantz, a tobacco researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, yesterday announced a new Web site, "TobaccoScam," to counter what he calls a 20-year campaign by the tobacco industry to use the restaurant industry as a stalking horse to defeat anti-smoking rules. 
 But Prof. Glantz's attempts to get restaurant trade magazines to accept ads for the site were not entirely successful. Two of the three magazines that were approached initially accepted the ads. But the publications changed their minds after Philip Morris sent e-mail messages asking whether they would be running the ads and suggesting that the company's own ad decisions would be affected by the answer. 
"We submitted the ads. They were approved -- and, later on, rejected," said Joe Therrien, a consultant who placed the ads for the university project. According to Mr. Therrien, one magazine told him that the first ad in the series was "too negative."
"Negative" is an apt description. The first advertisement in the series is a black-and-white, full-page call to arms for the industry that claims "Big Tobacco is Lying. Again." It then attempts to counter arguments made by the industry and its allies over the years -- that restaurant business goes down when smoking is banned, that second-hand smoke is not harmful, and that special ventilation systems can accommodate smokers. The ad also directs readers to the Web site, www.tobaccoscam.ucsf.edu, where it has posted selected economic and scientific studies, as well as polling evidence, to back up the group's claims.
That first ad also shows New York restaurateur Michael O'Neal, who looks out from the ad with the sort of tough, suspicious look that might appear on a bouncer's face before a surly patron becomes airborne. He says, "Big Tobacco has been conning the restaurant business for years. Don't be a sucker. Go smokefree."
A spokeswoman for VNU Business Publications, publisher of Restaurant Business, one of the publications that rejected the advertisement, denied that the magazine had received an e-mail from Philip Morris. "When the ad arrived, it was reviewed and found to be inappropriate because Restaurant Business does not accept advertising that is negative toward another company," said the spokeswoman, Deborah Patton.
Representatives of Penton Media, the publisher of the other magazine, Restaurant Hospitality, did not return calls. (A third publication, Nation's Restaurant News, owned by Lebhar-Friedman, accepted the ad.)
Generating controversy is nothing new to Prof. Glantz, a gadfly on steroids. He has been fighting the industry for decades, and on multiple fronts. In 1994, he uncovered a secret trove of tobacco documents from the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company -- including one 1963 document from a top executive that stated, "we are, therefore, in the business of selling nicotine, an addictive drug." That trove of documents provided powerful ammunition to the Food and Drug Administration in its efforts to regulate tobacco products. And they bolstered the efforts of state attorneys general in their lawsuits that led to a multibillion-dollar settlement over tobacco-related medical expenses.
More recently, Mr. Glantz has begun a campaign to fight the portrayal of smoking in movies. The pugnacious advertisements in that campaign, which cited the Miramax film "In the Bedroom" by name, were rejected by Variety and The Hollywood Reporter earlier this year.
The TobaccoScam site, which is funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Rhoda Goldman Fund, he said, is "the opportunity to get the truth out to these people" in the restaurant business. "Restaurant people are very sharp, but they've been treated to the big lie that smoke-free measures will cost them business," Prof. Glantz said.
The National Restaurant Association opposes government-mandated smoking bans "because of the dramatic economic impact bans have on restaurants and their employees," according to an item on its Web site.
A representative for Philip Morris -- a company that has long championed First Amendment rights and the value of free choice, ideals that have served it well in its fight against tobacco regulation -- said the e-mail messages were a mistake.
"It was a decision that was made by a junior-level person" late on a Friday afternoon, said Brendan McCormick, a spokesman for Philip Morris U.S.A. "We realized immediately it was a mistake in judgment" because the e-mail messages could be interpreted as a threat to withhold advertising from publications that ran the Glantz ads. The company called each of the publications the next week "to clarify what our position is -- and our position is those publications are certainly free to take that advertising. We have not made, nor do we intend to make, any advertising decisions based on anybody else's advertising."
"The more voices that are out there the better," he said.
Mr. McCormick argued that his company's position is moderate while those of Mr. Glantz and his allies is extreme. "They want government to make the smoking-ban decision for everyone," he said. 
Mr. O'Neal, the restaurateur, said that he was happy to appear in the advertisement. "You go to a Yankees game, you can't smoke," he noted. "You ride an airplane to California, you can't smoke. Why do you have to smoke in a restaurant or a bar?" His own flagship restaurant, O'Neal's Lincoln Center, has historically allowed smoking, he said, because he was hoping that the city would pass tough anti-smoking laws, and he wanted "a level playing field" with other restaurants.
O'Neal's Lincoln Center is currently closed for renovation, he said, but he added that when it reopens this fall smoking will not be allowed. "It won't hurt our business," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day on Aug. 7, about a campaign for TobaccoScam, an antismoking Web site, omitted the name of the agency that created the campaign. It was the Public Media Center.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael O'Neal, owner of O'Neal's Lincoln Center, in an ad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (94%); SMOKING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEB SITES (77%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (75%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); DRINKING PLACES (58%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; ADVERTISING; RESTAURANTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: VNU BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS NV/SA (52%); INCISIVE MEDIA LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; GLANTZ, STANTON A (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



148 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: On Camera, Jobless Argentines Vie for a Livelihood 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Other countries may have television programs that lure entrants with offers of a million dollars, a new car or a luxury vacation in a tropical clime. But in this nation of broken finances and shattered dreams, contestants on a popular new game show compete for a prize that is increasingly rare and precious: a paying job.
 Broadcast five days a week, the hourlong program known as "Human Resources" pits two unemployed people in a contest to win a guaranteed six-month work contract. They relate their life stories and answer questions that test their ability to perform the duties they are seeking. Then viewers vote by telephone to decide which of the two should get the coveted job. 
 On Monday, the prize was a position as a sales clerk at a bakery in a suburb of the Argentine capital. Both contestants were pleasant young women who have been unable to find work since finishing high school. Fatima Rueda, an 18-year-old single mother, and Nadia Bravo, 20, pleaded tearfully with the viewing audience. 
"I feel helpless" without work, said one. "I feel empty," confessed the other. After every commercial break, a well-groomed blond hostess, much in the mold of Vanna White, urged viewers to call a toll-free number to support their favorite.
On the air since mid-April, "Human Resources" is a reflection of a new national obsession in a country of 37 million that until recently was the most prosperous in Latin America. As the Argentine economy continues to contract in a collapse that is now the statistical equivalent of the Great Depression, fears of being pulled into the black hole are growing, especially among the middle class.
"We can't solve the problem," said Nestor Ibarra, the host of the show. "But we can help establish the dignity of work, and remind people that the unemployed are not just statistics, but also people with faces, names and lives."
Officially, the unemployment rate has climbed to 21.5 percent, the highest in Argentine history. But many people have simply given up looking for work, discouraged by the closing of thousands of factories and shops. Others have had their work hours or wages sharply reduced. Even those lucky enough to still have full-time jobs worry that the worsening economics will soon thrust them into the ranks of the unemployed.
Anxieties among Argentines about joblessness are running especially high right now. Wednesday is the feast day of San Cayetano, the patron saint of workers here. It coincides with a visit by the United States Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, who arrived in Argentina today as part of what he described as an effort to familiarize himself with the economic catastrophe here.
While some Argentines vied for jobs on television, entire families have been camped out for weeks in unheated tents outside the sanctuary of San Cayetano on the outskirts of the capital, enduring the Southern Hemisphere winter as an offering to the saint who they hope will gain them a job, or at least help them to keep one. Including the campers, more than 200,000 people are expected to pray or make other demonstrations of faith to the saint on Wednesday. 
Griselda Lopez, 53, is part of a group of 20 women who have been going to the shrine together for more than a dozen years and arrived this year on July 1. In the early years, all of the women were employed, she said, but most have lost their jobs.
"We're terribly afraid, all of us," Mrs. Lopez said. "Times are very hard for everybody. Those who have been let go suffer because there is no prospect of work, and the few who still have their jobs see what is happening around them and tell themselves 'I could be next.' "
Because of its association with the saint of "bread and work," the church at the San Cayetano shrine runs a well-known job training and placement program. But the director of that effort, Adrian Pagani, said that while the number of people seeking help has increased, job placements have dropped sharply as the crisis has worsened over the past three years: from 2,600 in the year ending on June 30, 2000, to 1,300 in the year that ended last June 30.
"The work world has fallen apart in Argentina, along with the whole web of social relationships that go with it," he said. "People have lost not only their income, but the sense of identity that work confers on them."
In that atmosphere of disintegration and desperation, "Human Resources" has flourished. The program's structure is simple: a job is announced, and from the dozens of initial applicants, 20 are selected to come to the studio before the choice is winnowed down to the final two.
According to the program's producers, the record number of contestants competing for any single job is about 650. That turnout came when a local theme park said it was looking for a tour guide and specified that it wanted a woman older than 40 for the job.
"We generally get our most massive response when someone who is hiring does not exclude middle-aged people," said Luis Oscar Obregon, one of the executive producers of the program. "Because those are the jobs that appear least often on the market and that is the group with the most responsibilities and the least opportunities, the turnout is always exceptional."
Mr. Obregon added that if the crisis here were not so severe, there would probably be even more contestants for jobs. 
"A lot of people can't afford bus fare anymore, and our theater is too far for them to walk, so they are forced to remain at home, trapped," he explained.
Most of the jobs "Human Resources" offers are blue-collar: waiter, clerk, mechanic. The economic situation here is grim enough that people with college educations also apply to the program for such posts. But they quickly find that their credentials bring them no special advantage.
"The audience's behavior is predictable and always very human," said Mr. Ibarra, the host. "They automatically vote for the person who they think needs the job the most. So the man with a disabled child, the woman who has children but no husband, is preferred over the person who is not quite as bad off."
On Monday, that proved to be the case. When the votes were tallied and displayed with a flourish on an electronic screen, Ms. Rueda, the single mother, had received 52 percent of the vote, to 48 percent for Ms. Bravo.
Crestfallen, Ms. Bravo was consoled by members of her family, who rushed from the audience to hug and kiss her, and then gamely walked over to congratulate the victor, who was holding her infant son and smiling broadly. The two young women embraced, and both began to cry.
But as Ms. Rueda went to sign her six-month employment contract, the bakery owner made a surprise announcement that was greeted with applause by the studio audience. He had decided, he said, to hire both women, and produced a second work agreement, which Ms. Bravo, suddenly animated, quickly signed.
"That happens a lot," Mr. Ibarra said afterward. "A contestant won't get the job on our program, but someone will call in later to offer them another job. People are really decent that way, because they are touched by what they see."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nestor Ibarra, center, host of "Human Resources," on Monday with the contestants Nadia Bravo, left, and Fatima Rueda, who held her infant son. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TRENDS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SUBURBS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TELEVISION; CONTESTS AND PRIZES; LABOR 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; IBARRA, NESTOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) ARGENTINA

TITLE: HUMAN RESOURCES (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



149 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: 2 Major Airlines Reduce Business Fares by 20% 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
American Airlines and Northwest Airlines have lowered their business fares by 20 percent on most domestic routes where they compete, with other airlines matching the discounts to various degrees. The fare sale signals an attempt by the airlines to lure back business travelers who have abandoned them during the economic downturn.
 The fare war began late last week, when American, based in Fort Worth, offered a discount of up to 10 percent on business fares bought through some of the country's largest travel agencies. The sale was not offered through the more general computer booking system. Northwest Airlines said it heard about the discount through its corporate customers and decided to match the discount by introducing it as a systemwide published fare in the computers. 
 After American matched that, Northwest cut prices by a further 10 percent on Monday, forcing American to match for a total discount of 20 percent on published fares.
Both carriers are offering the discounts on routes where they compete with each other but not ones that fly into hub airports used by other competitors, like Continental Airlines and Delta Air Lines. But Continental and Delta have also been forced to cut prices on some of the routes discounted by American and Northwest.
For example, before the sale, American had a walk-up business fare of $1,213 one-way from New York to Los Angeles, said Tom Parsons, chief executive of Bestfares.com, which tracks fares. Now, all the full-service carriers, with the exception of United, are flying that route for $983 one-way. But a business fare to Los Angeles from Newark -- a Continental hub -- still costs about $1,200, Mr. Parsons said.
"We think it highlights the frustration of the major airlines with respect to the continued weakness in business revenues," Susan Donofrio, an analyst for Deutsche Bank wrote in an investor's note today. "We expect that we will see a number of different methods tried in the upcoming months as the airlines attempt to react to this new business fare environment."
Traditionally, the airlines have relied on business fares for 60 percent of their revenue, even though those travelers make up only 40 percent of passengers.
This new fare war decreases the profit they would make on each ticket. "The airlines have actually come up to the point where they've got themselves in a pretty good jam," Mr. Parsons said.
Kurt Ebenhoch, a spokesman for Northwest, said his carrier was "competing for every customer we can and pricing our product competitively to do that."
Last month, the major carriers offered discounts of 25 percent to 50 percent on leisure tickets.
That was a sharp reversal of a strategy that the airlines tried earlier this year, when they tried unsuccessfully to raise prices on leisure fares. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



150 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: St. Alban's Guide to Populism 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Rule No. 1: So let's say, old sport, that one summer night in a hotel ballroom you gather your favorite fat cats and they all sit on their checkbooks.
 For some inexplicable reason, no one wants you to run again. But that is not an option. On this grim night, it becomes wrenchingly clear that since you are not popular, you must become a populist. 
 Without the support of Big Money, you'll have to rely on the support of Big Labor and Big Media.
Rule No. 2: In order to help the little people, you have to know the right people.
The best placement for an angry manifesto against the rich and powerful is not Mother Jones, but the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. Wave the Cross of Gold at the golden -- your rant against elitism must be heard by the Eastern elite. You have worked so hard to cultivate media bigwigs, with extended meals and endless calls tattling on your rivals.
Let's face it. There is an aristocracy of the mind. Average Americans, including those who don't have the brains to read a butterfly ballot correctly, should allow themselves to be led by a bright, socially distinguished, technologically savvy person. 
If you are one of the entitled, you are entitled to save people from themselves.
Rule No. 3: In the debate between those who believe they are entitled to govern because of their station in life and those who believe that the people are sovereign -- hedge, straddle, fib. Your political birthright, your Ivy schooling, your upbringing in the corridors of power certainly entitle you to govern. If you need to pretend that the people are sovereign in order to become sovereign of the people, what's a little lese-majeste? Lese is more.
If you are one of the entitled, then you are entitled to knock entitlement.
(For further guidance, see Andover Guide to Populism, Rule 186: When political dynasties are in trouble, patrician leaders must hobnob with hoi polloi, like rescued miners and unemployed factory workers.)
Rule No. 4: A cautionary note: The problem with Knowing It All, dear boy, is that some of the little people may find you insufferable when you explain to them that they are suffering now because they didn't listen to you in the first place -- sigh -- when you were right -- sigh -- as you always are -- big sigh and roll of the eyes. They may hold their hands over their little, average American ears. They may even feel compelled to vote for the president who spoke with such sensitivity on the first tee in Kennebunkport Sunday about the suicide bombing that killed nine bus passengers in Israel: "I call upon all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers. Thank you. Now watch this drive."
Cling to your faux populist fury against the "forces of greed," even though it did not help you when you tried it at the end of the 2000 campaign because most of the "forgotten middle class" was also trying to cash in on the stock market boom.
If you are one of the entitled, you are entitled to always be right.
Rule No. 5: If you let the presidency slip away, proclaim you are retreating, like Scarlett, to draw strength from the red dirt of Carthage. ID yourself in op-ed pieces as a college teacher in Tennessee.
Really, of course, you don't have to spend much time in that God-forsaken place, where they wouldn't know a metaphor from a two-by-four. Do not mention that you are really holed up in a Washington suburb writing a book about family with Tipper. Do not talk about being the vice chairman of an L.A. financial services company. 
If you are one of the entitled, you are entitled to any money you can get. (See Andover Guide to Populism, Rule 90: Populists don't have to be paupers. If you want to get bailed out in bidness, cash in on your famous name.) 
Rule No. 6: Let Hillary and Bill kowtow to the party's pro-business moderates; you are a proud populist. You wouldn't be caught within eight-tenths of a mile of a meeting of the Democratic Leadership Council. 
Feel free to attach yourself to Clinton ("Bill Clinton and I were right to maintain . . .") once you are sure it can't do you any good. Ignore all the party-poopers, including Bill, who grumble that you would be president today if you had mentioned his name even once after Labor Day in 2000.
Putting Gore First is a way of Putting People First.
And if you are one of the entitled, you are entitled to be first. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); POLITICS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); MINE WORKERS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); TERRORISM (61%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (61%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); BOMBINGS (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: AL GORE (50%) GORE, AL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



151 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: New Colombian President Gets Jump on Country's Problems 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Alvaro Uribe Velez wants to get his government off to a fast start.
 Since May, when Colombian voters elected him president in a landslide, Mr. Uribe has traveled to Europe, Washington and four Latin American countries, seeking aid and assuaging concerns about his hard-line approach to combating Colombia's surging rebel movements. His transition staff undertook an assessment of the country's 16 ministries, devising policies they say will reform the bureaucracy and cut waste. 
 On Wednesday, the day he is inaugurated, he plans to introduce legislation to reduce the size of Congress by nearly half.
He has also been marshaling support from top business leaders for a tax increase, to help pay for his plans to double the size of security forces to battle the guerrillas.
Mr. Uribe knows that he has to show results quickly on the promise that led voters to elect him on May 26: that his would be a can-do presidency that would bring some order to this troubled country. That pledge appealed to Colombians tired of Andres Pastrana, the departing president, whose efforts to bring peace through negotiations with the rebels ended in collapse.
"Uribe is the embodiment of the anti-Pastrana leader," said Fernando Cepeda, a former government minister and analyst. "We can be sure that if things turn out badly with this government, no one can say it will be for lack of effort."
But for all his hard-working demeanor, Mr. Uribe faces a tough battle in a country short on patience and money.
His plans to double the army's combat force to 100,000 soldiers and the National Police to 200,000 will cost $1 billion a year, when the annual budget is just $27 billion.
Even though some top industrialists have voiced support for special taxes and so-called war bonds, the details of the financing remain unclear and troubling to economists worried about the country's economic stability.
The most startling of Mr. Uribe's proposed political reforms -- the plan to reduce Congress to 150 lawmakers from 268 while ending many of their special privileges -- has aroused opposition, even among politicians who won office by allying themselves with him.
"I find it absurd to revoke or reduce the terms of a Congress that won legitimately at the voting booth," said Senator Guillermo Chavez, who supported Mr. Uribe. 
Mr. Uribe's own advisers -- Fabio Echeverry and Rudolf Hommes, who oversaw the review of Mr. Pastrana's ministries -- offered a sober view of the state of the economy. In a news conference last week, they said rural unemployment had reached 50 percent, the economy would grow a dismal 1.5 percent this year and the deficit would reach 6 percent of gross domestic product.
But the greatest question is whether Mr. Uribe's promise to crack down on leftist rebels -- a pledge that resonated with a conflict-weary populace -- will bear fruit. Colombia's army, though more professional and efficient than it was in the mid-1990's, faces a powerful and experienced foe in the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the largest rebel group. 
The group has flexed its muscles in recent weeks by threatening hundreds of mayors, many of whom fled their posts for fear they would be killed. On Monday and today the group stepped up the violence, bombing a provincial airport in eastern Colombia, a government building and other targets, injuring several civilians.
In addition to expanding the armed forces, Mr. Uribe has proposed to organize a million-member force of civilian informers to help the army root out rebels. Critics fear that the project will create new dangers for noncombatants.
Such sweeping plans, which differ markedly from the laid-back approach of Mr. Pastrana, a former television anchorman, have led to rising expectations.
"He received a strong mandate from Colombians in the elections, but it will not be easy to fulfill the expectations that he created during the campaign," said Vicente Torrijos, a political analyst.
Mr. Echeverry, a key adviser, cautioned reporters that Mr. Uribe did "not promise streams of milk and honey."
The president-elect has also tried to ease concerns here and abroad about his shift to the right.
The day after the presidential election, he proposed United Nations mediation in peace talks with rebels.
A month later, he met with Secretary General Kofi Annan in New York. 
Not long after the election he also named his cabinet ministers, and 6 of 13 were women (three ministries were merged into others), including the defense minister and the minister of exterior relations.
Bush administration officials, who see Mr. Uribe as a dependable caretaker of American policy in Colombia, pledged firm support. Last month, Congress approved a provision in antiterrorism legislation that would allow some American-supplied equipment, like helicopters, to be used directly against the rebels, a change from previous guidelines that limited such equipment to use in antidrug operations.
"The hope is that the government's agenda gets set and that progress is made," John Walters, the White House drug policy chief, said in an interview today. He predicted that Mr. Uribe would make "a real and important start and progress" in his programs.
Many Colombians, worn out by four years of rising violence and kidnappings, believe that Mr. Uribe has the right prescription for the country's troubles.
"A new hope will be born this Wednesday," said El Espectador, a Bogota newspaper. "And though it is irrational to think that solutions for all of the country's problems will be found in the short term, there is a reason for that hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armored vehicles patrolled the mountains around Bogota yesterday. Security has been increased for the inauguration of the new president. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TAXATION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (93%) URIBE VELEZ, ALVARO; FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (91%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%) COLOMBIA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



152 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Reactor Sales Are Said to Endanger Accident Payments 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
The sale of about two dozen nuclear power reactors around the country to a small number of companies has undermined the system Congress devised to ensure compensation for people hurt by a severe nuclear accident, according to an analysis commissioned by two antinuclear groups in New York.
 Federal law requires reactor operators to buy $200 million in conventional insurance. It also provides for about $9.3 billion in additional coverage by requiring that after an accident, each plant pay $10 million a year, up to $88 million, to compensate victims. 
 When the law, known as the Price-Anderson act, was approved by Congress, the idea was to spread the risk among all reactors. But as a result of recent mergers and purchases, four companies now own so many reactors that their liabilities would be more than half a billion dollars each in case of accidents. 
The study, which was commissioned by Riverkeeper, a Hudson River environmental group, and the STAR Foundation, a Long Island antinuclear group, points out that in many cases, the companies bought the reactors through limited liability subsidiaries that could declare bankruptcy and permit the parent corporations to walk away unscathed. It also says that the limited liability structure jeopardizes the money set aside for decommissioning the reactors at the end of their lives.
"Price-Anderson only works if those companies are reachable in the event of an accident," said Alex Matthiessen, executive director of Riverkeeper. "These limited liability structures seem specifically designed to put them beyond reach."
The report, prepared by Synapse Energy Economics and scheduled to be officially released on Wednesday by being posted on the World Wide Web at www.noradiation.org, details layer upon layer of corporate structures used in recent reactor purchases. Robert Alvarez, program director for the Star Foundation, said that most of the holding companies had no employees and were merely "shell corporations." He called them "Enron-style subsidiaries."
Representatives for the nuclear industry scoffed at the idea that the changes in ownership threatened the insurance system. Having nuclear plants concentrated in the hands of companies that specialize in running reactors has safety benefits, they said, and may also create greater financial responsiveness.
"If I'm a nuclear operator, I'm not going to undermine my core business to save $10 million a year," said Marvin S. Fertel, senior vice president at the Nuclear Energy Institute, a trade group. Failure to pay the fee for one reactor could jeopardize the licenses of the others, he said.
A typical 1,000-megawatt nuclear plant has fuel and operating expenses of $130 million to $140 million a year, he said, and a $10 million payment on top of that, in the unlikely event of a major accident, was a small increment.
In an introduction to the report, Peter A. Bradford, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and a former head of the public service commissions in both New York State and Vermont, agreed that the consolidation of nuclear ownership might make for safer operation. But he said he thought it also "risks the shifting of accident and decommissioning costs from the plant owners to the general public because the relatively secure financial backing of substantial utilities companies has, in many cases, been replaced by a limited liability subsidiary whose only asset is an individual nuclear power plant."
Price-Anderson, established in 1957 by Congress, expired on Aug. 1. Provisions remain in force for existing reactors but new ones would not be covered. But that point is moot, since no new reactors have been ordered since 1978.
The insurance system established by the law could be crucial for people who live within a few miles of nuclear plants because commercial property insurance does not cover radiation accidents.
In creating the program, Congress set a cap on how much would be paid to any victims of a nuclear accident. The cap is periodically adjusted for inflation; it is now about $9.5 billion, with the money coming from the $200 million in conventional insurance and the $9.3 billion that would be paid by the nuclear industry after an accident.
Opponents say the cap is a subsidy to the nuclear industry; the industry asserts that the $9.5 billion is far more than would be available for a catastrophe at a chemical plant or some other industrial site. So far, they point out, payments have totaled only about $200 million.
Whatever the merits of the arguments on both sides, the emerging structure of the industry has clearly changed the underlying assumptions behind the building of nuclear power plants. Critics agree that having a single company operate 15 or 20 reactors is probably good for safety, since plants within a company share expertise more readily than plants owned by scattered utilities. 
But they also say that the new owners may lack the deep pockets of the mammoth regulated utilities that built the reactors, making an insurance scheme more necessary.
The new legal structure is radically different from what came before. For example, the Indian Point reactors, in a suburb of New York City along the Hudson River, were sold by Consolidated Edison and the New York Power Authority to Entergy, a utility that built five of its own plants and has bought six more.
A spokesman for Entergy, Carl Crawford, said the structure had tax advantages. Asked if it also created a liability shield, he said, "It has that effect, too."
But, he said, "anyone who thinks that a company that would spend a billion and a half of its own dollars is going to shirk a $10 million a year insurance payment, that's just not reasonable."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday with an article about potential risks to the system that would compensate people hurt by a severe nuclear accident referred incorrectly to a problem at the Davis-Besse nuclear plant near Toledo, Ohio. An acid leak inside the plant ate a hole six inches deep into a steel cap that covers the plant's reactor vessel, federal inspectors said in March. No accident was reported.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Davis-Besse power plant near Toldeo, Ohio, was the scene of a nuclear accident in March. A federal system for ensuring payments to people hurt by more serious nuclear accidents is in jeopardy, a study says. (Associated Press) Chart: "Concentrating the Risk"With the consolidation of the nuclear power industry the top five companies own nearly 50 percent of all the reactors around the country critics are worried that the original plan to spread the risk liability for any nuclear power accident among dozens of stateregulated utilities is no longer workable. Under federal law, each plant faces a potential cost of $88 million to compensate victims. ExelonNUCLEAR REACTORS OWNED*: 19MAXIMUM POTENTIAL LIABILITY (IN MILLIONS): $1,440.4 EntergyNUCLEAR REACTORS OWNED*: 10MAXIMUM POTENTIAL LIABILITY (IN MILLIONS): 872.0 Duke EnergyNUCLEAR REACTORS OWNED*: 6MAXIMUM POTENTIAL LIABILITY (IN MILLIONS): 462.5 Dominion ResourcesNUCLEAR REACTORS OWNED*: 6MAXIMUM POTENTIAL LIABILITY (IN MILLIONS): 502.3 Southern CompanyNUCLEAR REACTORS OWNED*: 6MAXIMUM POTENTIAL LIABILITY (IN MILLIONS): 344.9 *Full and partial ownership (Source: Synapse Energy Economics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INSURANCE; ATOMIC ENERGY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



153 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: From Down-Home to Upmarket: Sam Walton's Town Gets Sleeker 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: BENTONVILLE, Ark., July 31 

 BODY:
Old-timers here still arrive by pickup truck to have their coffee and biscuits at Marty's, a plain-looking restaurant that has been a fixture for decades.
 Nouveau Bentonville, on the other hand, gravitates to a soaring space called the Market at Pinnacle Point, which appeared out of nowhere two years ago just down the highway in Rogers, surrounded by an office-and-shopping complex filled with Fortune 500 companies. 
 "We do a lot with the espresso machine," the Market's assistant manager, Matthew Scheide, said.
That is just one of the changes taking place in a region long defined by pine forests, poultry farms and Civil War memories that is now among the six fastest-growing metropolitan areas in the United States.
Manufacturers large and small -- the makers of packaged food, beauty products, beverages, toys, cleaning agents, cameras, clothing and just about every other item that fills the shelves at Wal-Mart's 2,200 discount stores around the country -- are stampeding into the Bentonville area where Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest company with revenue of $218 billion last year, is based. 
They all want to be where the action is: in Wal-Mart's backyard. And coming from major cities and accustomed to other lifestyles, they are gilding this once-humble slice of northwest Arkansas where Sam Walton, the company's founder, first made it his business to cater to rural, cost-conscious shoppers largely ignored by other retailers. The result is not just a population boom, but also a shift from the simple country style that once defined Wal-Mart and Bentonville to something sleeker, spiffier and more, well, suburban.
The outsiders come because they believe they must, especially since Wal-Mart began adding supermarkets onto its discount stores a few years ago.
"You can think of it almost like the lobbyists in D.C.," said Michael Porter, a retail analyst for Morningstar in Chicago. "It just makes sense to be where the decision makers are, and in this case, the decision makers are the heads of the largest company in the world."
As the migration has accelerated, the newcomers have caused a decided shift here to the upscale: to gated neighborhoods with names like Avignon, to restaurants serving sushi, to specialty stores and gourmet shops that are clearly worlds apart from Wal-Mart. It is the kind of thing that runs counter to the mentality held by the folksy Mr. Sam, who died in 1992.
"I don't believe a big showy lifestyle is appropriate for anywhere," Mr. Walton wrote in his autobiography, "least of all here in Bentonville, where folks work hard for their money and where we all know that everyone puts on their trousers one leg at a time."
Lately, however, it has become a lot showier with people living in trophy houses along the golf course at the Pinnacle Country Club, with cast-iron lions flanking the front door.
"We used to have a one-tiered system -- northwest Arkansas was hillbilly country," said Jeff Collins, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the Sam M. Walton College of Business, part of the University of Arkansas. Now there is upward pressure on wages, and farmland is being snapped up for mansions. "Things have definitely changed."
It is not clear what effect all this will have on Wal-Mart itself, traditionally a company not given to lavish pay or perks of any kind. Then again, Wal-Mart has already been pushed in new directions by its relentless growth.
"Much of what has taken place since Mr. Sam's death has been a little bit different than what he would have done," said Tom Ginn, vice president for business development for the Rogers-Lowell Chamber of Commerce. "It is also a much larger company than it was 10 years ago. Companies have to evolve."
Several Wal-Mart executives have moved into houses in the Pinnacle development, said Jay W. Allen, a company spokesman, adding that Wal-Mart is committed, as always, to investing its profits back into its stores. "We are, at the end of the day, a very large multinational company based here," he said. "That is not going to change. It's important that this is an attractive place to live."
The region now includes about 300,000 people, and the once-tiny city of Bentonville has doubled in population to 22,000 since 1990. At least half that gain has come from people moving in from far afield: Chicago, Atlanta, Dallas and Cincinnati. Airlines have added direct flights from several major cities, including New York and Atlanta.
Specialty stores and services are flocking to the area. Office parks, hotels and new condominium complexes have sprung up on former cow pastures, and most of the remaining open land along major roads prickles with signs reading "For Sale" or "Will Build to Suit."
Even some of the newcomers seem shocked by the changes. "When we moved into our subdivision in Rogers three years ago, there was a sign that said, 'Welcome to Whispering Timbers, a quiet place in the country,' " said Sue Hess, who arrived from Kansas with her husband, Jerry, when he retired.
Mrs. Hess's golfing partners are all recent transplants from places like Oregon, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Minnesota and California. "I haven't played with anyone from Arkansas," she said.
Some suppliers set up small offices in Bentonville in the late 1980's, to work more closely with Wal-Mart. But since the retailer began adding supermarkets onto its discount stores a few years ago, it has been imperative for the multibillion-dollar makers of food and beverages to be in Bentonville, too. The trend seems inexorable, as Wal-Mart continues to grow in importance in the retail industry.
"Literally on a daily basis, they are adding people," said Rich Davis, a retired Wisconsin fire chief who directs economic development for the Bentonville-Bella Vista Chamber of Commerce. "If you see that product on the shelf at Wal-Mart, they are here."
He estimates that 450 companies with ties to Wal-Mart have established offices in the area, and that another 1,500 will do so before long, transforming not just Bentonville but adjacent cities like Rogers and Fayetteville. Procter & Gamble, which had 100 people working in Fayetteville five years ago, now has more than 200, all of them assigned to the Wal-Mart account. Ocean Spray opened an office here three years ago; Newell Rubbermaid recently completed a new building.
A drive around an office park called Beau Terre is a study in blue-chip names: ConAgra, Hasbro, H. J. Heinz, Exxon Mobil, Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola, Gillette, Clorox and Unilever are nearby, along with Rayovac, Kellogg, and 3M.
Ever since last year, when Wal-Mart announced it would no longer share sales information with data-gathering companies like Information Resources and A. C. Nielsen, many manufacturers have believed the only way to keep on top of how their products are doing is to be in close proximity. But Mr. Allen said that was not Wal-Mart's edict. "There are suppliers that have offices here and suppliers that don't," he said. "We work with both."
The manufacturers describe their relationships with Wal-Mart as complicated but ultimately collaborative.
"What they basically said to us is, if you want to grow with Wal-Mart, you need to pay closer attention to how we go to market," said John Crossetti, vice president for sales at Ocean Spray. Ocean Spray's Wal-Mart business has grown by 76 percent in two years.
In interviews, most executives refused to identify themselves out of concern for future business. Many of them, no matter how well established, find themselves in the role of supplicant much of the time, bowing before the influence Wal-Mart wields in the marketplace and the fear of losing a make-or-break order to a competitor.
On most days, particularly Tuesdays, the lobby of Wal-Mart's low-rise headquarters is jammed with visitors, most wearing blue "supplier" name tags and toting racks, suitcases and cartons full of products. Once past the security desk, they are assigned to one of the dozens of tiny rooms on the first floor where they meet with Wal-Mart representatives to engage in notoriously tough negotiations over price, volume, replenishment, and the nuts and bolts of retailing.
The rooms are spare, in keeping with Wal-Mart's no-frills philosophy. One executive with a Fortune 500 company said opening his own office in Bentonville meant that meetings could be held in his conference rooms, not theirs. "Ours are more spacious, certainly," he said.
The odds of seeing Wal-Mart's top management on the golf course, however, are not good. "Wal-Mart is very judicious about that," he said. "This office is not for schmoozing. It's for servicing the account." 
Along with the newcomers have come fresh pressures on wages, on land prices, and on the area's roads, water and sewer systems. Addressing them is not a simple matter. In Bentonville, a $3,500-a-house development fee narrowly won approval from the City Council and went into effect July 1. The money pays for new water and sewer lines along with more fire stations.
The mayor, Terry Black Coberly, backed the measure, which is unusual for the area, in what she termed an act of "political courage." After running unopposed last time, she faces two challengers this fall who fought the fee.
Much of the recent development has catered to newcomers, who are typically paid more and accustomed to spending more than local people. As a result, Bentonville is splitting into two distinct groups.
As housing gears itself toward upscale buyers, the mayor worries that affordable homes may be more difficult to find. "It is hard for teachers and policemen and firemen, because prices have increased dramatically over the last few years," she said. "We have two constituencies, natives and newcomers. So far, we've managed to keep a happy balance."
Bentonville old-timers seem to be taking a wait-and-see position. They worry about the traffic, but they also point out that it is better to be part of a community that is growing than one that isn't.
"When I first got here in 1972, I could be in Pea Ridge in 17 minutes," said Charles Hatfield, a Bentonville veterinarian who now sees more puppies and kittens than cows in his practice. (Pea Ridge is 10 miles northeast of Bentonville.) "Now you can't get across town in 17 minutes."
Winters are mild, prices are mostly reasonable (though a medium cappuccino at the Market runs $2.50), and people are cheerful. While newcomers may turn up their noses when told to move to Bentonville, once they arrive, they seem to enjoy the life, which Mayor Coberly happily compares to Mayberry.
"I said I'd never move here," an employee of a Fortune 500 packaged food company said, "but it seemed like this is where everything is going on." In 1997, she bought a house with a pool, on an acre of land, for less than $100,000.
"The social life leaves something to be desired," she acknowledged. Because Wal-Mart is "such a high-dollar account," many of the new arrivals are seasoned executives with families rather than young people starting out.
She wants to stay, though. Not only has the town grown on her, but for corporate strivers, being in Bentonville these days is a plum.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Charles Hatfield, a Bentonville veterinarian, top center, and Dr. Vaughan McDowell chat at Marty's, while Belinda Williams pours coffee. Regan Gonzales, below left, and Wallace Barlow, right center, however, prefer to go to the Market at Pinnacle Point in Rogers. (Tom Ewart/NWA Photography for The New York Times)(pg. C8) Map of Arkansas highlighting Bentonville: The headquarters of Wal-Mart Stores is in Bentonville, Ark. (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); FOOD MFG (78%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); URBANIZATION (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); CITIES (69%); POULTRY (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POPULATION GROWTH (54%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RURAL AREAS 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (86%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (86%)

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; WALTON, SAM (D1992); PORTER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) BENTONVILLE (ARK); ARKANSAS

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



154 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Longtime Assemblyman Takes Challenger Seriously 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Dawn had barely come yesterday, and Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr. was already perched at the entrance to the Kingston Avenue subway station on Eastern Parkway. Impeccably dressed in a dark blue suit, Mr. Norman, the Democratic Party leader of Brooklyn and a 20-year incumbent, insisted that his re-election battle was a difficult one that demanded nearly 24-hour vigilance.
 "I don't take anything for granted," Mr. Norman said, between conversations with morning commuters as he passed out campaign fliers. "I have to be ready. She has some visibility. She is a lawyer and a woman, and most of the voters in this district are women." 
 The "she" in this case is Sandra Roper, a lawyer who achieved a surprisingly strong showing last year in her first venture into elective politics. She received 37 percent of the vote in a boroughwide race against Charles J. Hynes, the longtime Brooklyn district attorney.
Ms. Roper is campaigning for the September primary on a theme not uncommon to insurgents running against longstanding incumbents. Mr. Norman, she charges, is so preoccupied with Democratic Party back-room maneuvering that he has little time to attend to the needs of the 43rd Assembly District, which includes the Crown Heights and Flatbush sections of Brooklyn.
"If you wield so much power in the Assembly, you should be able to point out something you have done for the people of Brooklyn," Ms. Roper said. "He has been busy politically, but the people of this district are not being adequately represented in Albany."
Specifically, she criticized Mr. Norman for supporting the repeal of the stock transfer tax and for not working to reinstate the commuter tax. "Given the economy and the events of last September, this would have been an absolutely ripe time to do that," she said. "I just think it's time for a change."
Ms. Roper, who is 45, is running with a team of insurgent candidates who complain that there is a need for more assertive legislators in Albany. Just yesterday, the candidates, who include Wellington Sharpe, running for the Senate, and Eddie Brumfield, an Assembly candidate, held a small rally outside Brooklyn Borough Hall. They criticized incumbent legislators for being inattentive to the needs of their various districts.
By her own reckoning, Ms. Roper's grass-roots, shoestring campaign will pay dividends at the ballot box because in a district as compact as the 43rd -- a working-class area with mostly Caribbean and African-American voters -- door-to-door and subway campaigning is especially effective. "I will be getting my message out to the people," she said.
Nonetheless, Mr. Norman is thought to be in a strong position. He has said he will spend $100,000 if necessary. (He will hold a large fund-raiser for his 51st birthday later this month.) He has the support of several large unions, and many rank-and-file union members live in the district. Ms. Roper said she has raised less than $10,000.
Why, then, Mr. Norman's concern? For one thing, he had a difficult time in last year's election, as most of the candidates he supported lost and his prestige was battered. Moreover, the present race comes four years after Mr. Norman was nearly defeated by James E. Davis, now a City Council member.
Another concern is that the strength of the Democratic Party organization in Brooklyn might be spread thin. Mr. Norman is investing a great deal of party resources in the campaigns of other incumbents who face strong challenges: Assemblyman Roger L. Green and State Senators Nellie Santiago and Carl Andrews (who is being opposed by Mr. Sharpe), to name a few.
In addition, Ms. Roper's strong showing in last year's election for district attorney came after a series of court challenges that knocked her off the ballot. After being reinstated just two weeks before the election, she managed 37 percent of the vote.
Nonetheless, the party leader expressed confidence. "The fact is that I've been doing my job as an elected official," Mr. Norman said. "We have helped to bring in more than $68 million in the last two years into this district for organizations, hospitals, schools and other groups."
He dismissed Ms. Roper as a "drive-by candidate" with little experience and history in the community. "My opponent doesn't live in the district and has no relationship with the people and the institutions within the 43rd Assembly District.".
Although Ms. Roper lives a few blocks outside the district, in a redistricting year candidates for state office are not required to live within the districts they run in. They must move into the district within a year of taking office.
Still, Mr. Norman said he felt compelled to campaign vigorously. "In 1998, when I did not get out there and campaign the way I should have, I had a big scare," he said. "I'm a big enough boy to admit it. And I'm not going to let that happen again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr. handed out fliers yesterday at a subway entrance on Eastern Parkway. His challenger, Sandra Roper, campaigned in front of the Supreme Court building in Brooklyn. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); (Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LAWYERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURE; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; NORMAN, CLARENCE JR (ASSEMBLYMAN); ROPER, SANDRA E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (51%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



155 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Settlement Offers Are Due on Trade Center Losses 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
In the most significant moment yet in the insurance battle over the World Trade Center, lawyers for Larry A. Silverstein, the developer, and Swiss Re, the lead insurer, are to make settlement offers to a federal judge in Manhattan tomorrow.
 While they remain as much as $5 billion apart in their assessments of the compensation owed, both parties, in recent days, have proclaimed a desire to settle the dispute. If they agree on an amount, it will determine how much money Mr. Silverstein will have to rebuild the trade center and, more broadly, how much influence he will have over the future of the site and the character of much of Lower Manhattan. 
 Swiss Re America, the leader of a coalition of 20 insurance companies that agreed to a $3.5 billion policy on the trade center, says that the destruction of the trade center was a single occurrence and that therefore Mr. Silverstein is entitled to no more than the total value of the policy. Mr. Silverstein has contended that the attack on the two towers was two separate occurrences and that therefore he was entitled to double compensation.
The two parties declined to say yesterday how much they would offer to open the negotiations on a settlement, but in the last week each has laid out vastly different assessments of the damage.
Mr. Silverstein said that the value of the property destroyed -- the twin towers, the center's buildings 4 and 5 and the retail mall -- were worth $5.7 billion. In addition, Mr. Silverstein said the interruption of business cost him more than $2.5 billion, bringing his total losses to more than $8.2 billion.
Herbert M. Wachtell, the lawyer representing Mr. Silverstein in the insurance case, said in an interview yesterday, "I would like to settle."
"I think a lot of insurers would be very anxious to settle this kind of thing," Mr. Wachtell said. "I think there are certain people who are intransigent." He said it was possible that a settlement could be reached involving some of the insurers, or none at all. 
Swiss Re, in turn, has estimated that the actual value of the World Trade Center buildings was $2.16 billion. If Mr. Silverstein decides to rebuild on the property, he would be entitled to payments of up to $3.5 billion as construction proceeds in the years ahead. The company says that because of the effect of inflation, it estimates the present value of that money as $2.4 billion.
"We've always said we would be delighted to negotiate a settlement within the framework of a single occurrence," said Jacques E. Dubois, the chairman and chief executive of Swiss Re America. "The property was destroyed only once."
In anticipation that the two sides will be unable to settle their differences, a jury trial has already been scheduled. Jury selection would begin Nov. 4 and opening arguments on Nov. 12. 
A closed hearing on the possible settlement is scheduled for Friday before Judge Lewis A. Kaplan in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Judge Kaplan was appointed a mediator in the case by Judge John S. Martin Jr., who, if a settlement is not reached, would preside over the trial. 
A dispute over whether a property loss was caused by one occurrence or two is not as uncommon a situation as it might seem, given the circumstances.
Take, for example, a fire in an office building that causes $1 million in damage on the 20th floor. The building owner, whose policy has a deductible of $500,000, might file a claim a month later stating that the 14th floor had $800,000 in water damage and that the 22nd floor had $500,000 in smoke damage. 
If the damage was determined to stem from three separate occurrences, the owner would have to pay $1.5 million in deductibles and he would receive only $800,000 from his insurer. If, however, all the damage was judged to be caused by a single occurrence -- the initial fire -- he would be liable for only $500,000, and the insurance company would owe him $1.8 million.
In most cases, the definition of "occurrence" rests on the particular language used in the policy. In the case of the World Trade Center, there was no formal policy, only a binding agreement that a policy would be drawn up under certain guidelines.
It is those guidelines that are in dispute. Swiss Re argues that "occurrence" is defined in documents that originated with an insurance broker working for Mr. Silverstein. According to those forms, a single occurrence is "attributable directly or indirectly to one cause or to one series of similar causes."
Mr. Silverstein and his lawyers argue that the decision should rest on an insurance form drawn up by Travelers, the large American insurer, which was seeking to participate in the group that was offering coverage for the trade center. Mr. Silverstein's lawyers say that according to that form's definition of "occurrence," the destruction of the twin towers was two incidents.
The dispute has the unusual twist of Mr. Silverstein arguing that the form used by his own insurance broker should be ignored, while Travelers, which has sided with Swiss Re against Mr. Silverstein, says that the form that it is most familiar with was not in effect. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry A. Silverstein, who holds the lease on the trade center, is negotiating with Swiss Re and other insurers on a settlement. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); JUDGES (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); HIJACKING (72%); JURY DUTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ;SWISS REINSURANCE CO 

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%) SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS; 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; SILVERSTEIN, LARRY A; KAPLAN, LEWIS A (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



156 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Doubleday Allegations Looming Over Talks

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Because of the threat of a $1 million fine, baseball owners have basically been silent during talks between negotiators for the clubs and the players. But yesterday, without opening his mouth, the Mets co-owner Nelson Doubleday tossed a bomb onto the bargaining table that management officials quickly tried to defuse by debunking his accusations.
 However, Doubleday's allegations, made in a counterclaim to a lawsuit filed by the Mets' other co-owner, Fred Wilpon, do not figure to dissolve right away. 
 "There are some very serious and disturbing allegations, especially as they relate to the owners' collective bargaining strategy," a union lawyer said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The counterclaim surfaced on a day when negotiators took time off from the major issues of revenue sharing and payroll tax and discussed the lesser issues of debt regulation and funding of deferred compensation. 
Today the union plans to present its initial proposal on a joint drug program. A person familiar with the proposal said it would include some element of testing for steroids. The union has long opposed random testing for drugs but many players have said they would approve testing for steroids. Last February, the clubs proposed that players be tested three times a year for steroids. 
In another development, the union's executive board held a lengthy conference call in which the members discussed proposals but did not consider a strike date. The board is scheduled to meet in Chicago next Monday and could set a strike date then, depending on the course negotiations follow the rest of this week.
It remains to be seen what role, if any, is played in the next few days by the allegations included in Doubleday's 23-page reply to Wilpon's lawsuit over his purchase of Doubleday's 50 percent ownership of the Mets. 
Doubleday, believing he was "double-crossed" by Major League Baseball and Commissioner Bud Selig, accused them of manipulating franchise values and other economic data as part of management's labor relations strategy.
Doubleday alleged that baseball manufactured "phantom operating losses" and systematically undervalued franchises and that Selig began enforcing a long-dormant economic rule known as 60 / 40 to "impose an indirect salary cap." 
The 60 / 40 rule stipulates that teams must maintain a ratio of 60 percent assets to 40 percent liabilities. After ignoring it for years, Doubleday said, Selig resurrected it "in a purported attempt to bring fiscal restraint to baseball teams and gain advantage in M.L.B.'s negotiations with the Players Association."
"A de facto salary cap -- achieved through the 60 / 40 rule -- would solve a variety of problems faced by Baseball today," Doubleday alleged, including limiting "the owners' exposure to ever increasing salary demands by players."
Asked how Doubleday's allegations might affect the negotiations, Rob Manfred, the owners' chief labor lawyer, said the allegations were untrue and "ridiculous on their face," adding, "They make no sense in the context of these negotiations." The union and its leader, Donald Fehr, Manfred said, "are too smart to let nonsense derail these negotiations."
But he added during a conference call with reporters, "To the extent the union is interested in discussing those topics, I'll handle those topics at the table."
Asked specifically about the "phantom operating losses," Manfred said, "Don, since 1987, has had an unbroken chain of audited financial statements from each club. I do not think Don thinks for one minute that those numbers are manufactured."
The players have long been skeptical of the clubs' claim of losses, but the union has not made an issue of it in recent years. Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer and president, called Doubleday's allegations "nonsense and a complete fabrication."
Doubleday's allegations also touch on contraction -- the owners' attempt to eliminate two teams -- a move the union challenged in a grievance that awaits the arbitrator's ruling.
Much of the focus of Doubleday's counterclaim is on Robert Starkey. Doubleday is challenging his appraisal of the Mets' value. It was Starkey, Doubleday said, whom Selig relied on to create the 60 / 40 plan that values all franchises. 
Starkey was a principal witness for the owners in the contraction grievance and tried to refute the idea that contraction was related to the clubs' proposal on revenue sharing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STEROIDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) BASEBALL; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN; NEW YORK METS 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; DOUBLEDAY, NELSON; WILPON, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



157 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Mussina Pounded By Royals For 14 Hits

BYLINE:  By JACK CURRY 

 BODY:
These are disturbing times for Mike Mussina, the intelligent and confident pitcher who has looked bewildered and uncertain for the Yankees for far too long. The potential explanations about why Mussina is sputtering sound like lame excuses as Mussina muddles through the fifth month of an unsatisfying season.
 Last night, it was the feeble Kansas City Royals who made Mussina look suspect and who gave the Yankees more reason to wonder whether Mussina can regain his effectiveness and his confidence by October. Mussina could not tame the Royals in a 6-2 loss, and he was routinely booed at a very ornery and very crowded Yankee Stadium. 
 If the team with the lowest batting average in the American League can hammer Mussina, what will happen against the premier teams in the postseason? The fragile-pitching Yankees need Mussina to be an anchor. For now, the Yankees can keep their concerns private and speak about how Mussina has been too sound for too many years to continue struggling. For now, the Yankees can maintain hope. They need to do something.
Mussina was bruised for 5 runs and a career-worst 14 hits in seven draining innings and only some foolish base running by the Royals prevented the damage from being more severe. It has been a forgettable week for Mussina, who allowed 7 runs on 11 hits in three innings in a 17-6 thumping by the Texas Rangers last Wednesday and probably figured it could not get worse.
It did. He is the softest 13-6 pitcher in the major leagues, his earned run average at 4.90.
"It's tough to explain," Mussina said. "I wish I could explain it. It's not what my past has shown. This is something I've never had to deal with before. I'm going to deal with it now."
Sometimes, Mussina admitted, he stands on the mound and wonders what is happening. How did he allow a run-scoring double to Michael Tucker in the second? How did Kansas City score three two-out runs in the third? It helped that Carlos Beltran completed an eight-pitch at-bat with a run-scoring double off a breaking pitch. How did that grounder find a hole? The questions keep coming, some from Mussina and some from others. He is stymied.
"I'm a little young to be losing my stuff," the 33-year-old Mussina said. "I'm not executing what I'm trying to do. That's the frustrating part. I work on things and then I let another big inning jump up and get me."
When someone suggested that Mussina might be tipping his pitches, he swatted away the theory. But Mussina said batters were hitting different pitches while he was ahead in the count, which sounds like a description for tipping pitches. To that, Mussina said: "I should just tell them what's coming then. Maybe that will make it easier on me." 
Mussina has attributed his inconsistencies to his difficulty with throwing fastballs for strikes and a tendency to overanalyze his mechanics. Manager Joe Torre also mentioned Mussina's problems with locating his fastball and a failure to be economical with his pitch count, obviously linked to the lack of command. Every pitcher works his other pitches off his fastball. Without a reliable fastball, a pitcher is handicapped. Mussina was handicapped again as the Royals beat the Yankees for the first time since Sept. 6, 2000.
Runelvys Hernandez, a 24-year-old rookie, pitched six innings, limiting the Yankees to Raul Mondesi's two-run homer. After beginning the season at Class A Wilmington, Hernandez outpitched Mussina in his fourth major league start.
Before the game, Torre acknowledged that Mussina's confidence could be wavering; his earned run average has grown after 14 of his last 22 starts. Torre explained how baseball is a sport where "you have to prove yourself to yourself" every day.
After Mussina had another poor outing, Torre focused on how he held the Royals scoreless in the sixth and the seventh and lasted 131 pitches in an attempt to find some answers.
Torre was so desperate for positives that he clung to Mussina's sixth and seventh, when he gave up three more hits.
"I'm not concerned," Torre said. "As long as he's physically sound, which we have every reason to believe he is, he'll be fine. He'll be fine."
Mussina had only one 1-2-3 inning and that came in the first. After two innings, he had thrown 39 pitches and trailed by 1-0. After three, he had thrown 78 and was down 4-0. If the Royals did not have three runners thrown out trying to steal second, in the third, fourth and fifth -- gift outs for a fading pitcher -- Mussina's ugly night would have been even uglier.
"You have to question some things," Mussina said. "I can't stand out there and accept what's happening. I have to correct it."

INSIDE PITCH
MARIANO RIVERA, who is on the disabled list with a strained right shoulder, pitched two scoreless innings yesterday for the Yankees' Gulf Coast League team in Tampa, Fla. Rivera's fastball reached 94 miles an hour. Rivera is eligible to be activated, but JOE TORRE said the Yankees would decide today if he needed one more rehabilitation appearance. . . . With ROGER CLEMENS activated to start tonight, BRANDON KNIGHT will be sent to Class AAA Columbus.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuck Knoblauch of the Royals beat the throw to the plate in the third inning. Knoblauch, a former Yankee, singled in his first two at-bats. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (54%) NEW YORK YANKEES; KANSAS CITY ROYALS 

PERSON: CURRY, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



158 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: O'Neill, Upbeat in Uruguay, Faces Tough Talk in Argentina 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
After making efforts to prop up the ailing economies of Brazil and Uruguay earlier in the day, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill arrived late this afternoon in Argentina, the third, final and most contentious stop on his four-day tour of a financially troubled region that blames the Bush administration for making many of its problems worse.
 In remarks throughout the day, Mr. O'Neill was unusually conciliatory compared with many of his declarations over the last year and a half, which have often reproached government leaders. 
 "We are eager to see all of Latin America succeed," he said at a news conference in Montevideo, the Uruguayan capital, "and with the right policies in place, the people of Latin America will succeed." 
Late last month, Mr. O'Neill set off wide anger in the region saying he wanted to ensure that assistance from international financial institutions to Argentina and Brazil "does some good and it doesn't just go out of the country to Swiss bank accounts." The implied lack of American support for Brazil led the currency there to plunge to record lows last week and ignited a diplomatic spat between the two countries.
At a news conference in Sao Paulo this morning, though, Mr. O'Neill sought to undo the damage. He recalled that as the head of Alcoa he had invested heavily in Brazil, believing in its potential, and he praised the country's leaders for their economic discipline.
"We're leaving with a very favorable impression of Brazil," he said. "I've seen only things that strengthen my view that Brazil is a great place to participate in economic development."
Mr. O'Neill's itinerary also included a brief stop this afternoon in Montevideo, where he met with President Jorge Batlle and other officials. On Sunday, the Bush administration relaxed its hands-off policy in Latin American fiscal crises, authorizing an emergency $1.5 billion interim loan to the Uruguayan government, and Mr. O'Neill said today he thought that the worst of the crisis there was now over.
A run on bank deposits, caused largely by economic turbulence in Argentina and in Brazil, led Uruguay to declare a four-day bank holiday last week. "By expediting this bridge credit," Mr. Batlle said today, "President Bush and his administration have allowed us to re-establish the economic life and financial system of our country."
Argentina, though, has been mired in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for months and has consistently been criticized by the Bush administration for dragging its feet on the sharp spending cuts the I.M.F. is demanding before it renews a credit line that was suspended last year. Government officials made it clear that they expected little from Mr. O'Neill's visit.
"It's not like Santa Claus is coming with a bag full of gifts," Alfredo Atanasof, the Argentine cabinet chief of staff, cautioned on Monday. He said he hoped that Mr. O'Neill, whose schedule calls for him to visit an infant development center and an automotive plant here on Wednesday, will "get to know the reality of this region."
To coincide with Mr. O'Neill's arrival, groups representing bank depositors, the unemployed, labor unions and left-wing political parties organized a protest march on the Casa Rosada, the Argentine seat of government. Security was tight at the airport, with police sharpshooters posted on the roofs of neighboring buildings and others deployed along the route to the presidential residence, where Mr. O'Neill met for about an hour with President Eduardo Duhalde.
In contrast to Uruguay, there was no news conference after the discussion here this evening. But in a brief statement, Mr. Duhalde's press secretary, Eduardo Amadeo, described the meeting as "very cordial and positive." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (54%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) ROHTER, LARRY; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) BRAZIL (99%); URUGUAY (97%); ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%) ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; URUGUAY; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



159 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Bush Signs Trade Bill, Restoring Broad Presidential Authority 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Aug. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush signed a bill this morning in Washington giving him the authority to negotiate trade deals with foreign countries without interference from Congress, then left less than 20 minutes later for a monthlong "working vacation" at his 1,600-acre ranch here.
 The legislation and a recently signed corporate antifraud bill are two accomplishments Mr. Bush will be able to cite when asked what his administration has done to try to help the stalling economy. 
 Trade promotion authority, once called fast track, was first given to the presidency in 1974. It lapsed in 1994, and Congress did not re-enact it for President Bill Clinton. Its renewal is a major legislative victory for Mr. Bush, whose aides worked for months to push the bill through the House and the Senate, which approved it only five days ago.
"Five presidents before me had this advantage," Mr. Bush said at a White House signing ceremony this morning. "But since the authority lapsed in 1994, other nations and regions have pursued trade agreements while America's trade policy was stuck in park." 
Under the new legislation, the president can make trade deals through 2007 that Congress can approve or reject but not change. Mr. Bush said he would begin using his authority immediately to accelerate long-stalled trade talks and bolster the economy.
"Starting now, America is back at the bargaining table in full force," Mr. Bush said. "I will use trade promotion authority aggressively to create more good jobs for American workers, more exports for American farmers and higher living standards for American families."
Supporters of the bill, mostly Republicans, said the legislation would move the White House from the sidelines to a central position in making trade deals that would enable the United States to better compete with other countries.
The opponents of the bill, mostly Democrats, said they worried about the impact of liberalized trade on American textile and other manufacturing workers, who might be hurt by competition from cheaper imported products or by companies that move their plants overseas to take advantage of cheaper foreign labor. Only when House and Senate negotiators agreed to include subsidized health insurance and job-training benefits for workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition did some Democrats finally agree to vote for the bill.
Mr. Bush said his administration would move quickly to make trade agreements with Chile, Singapore and Morocco. In addition, he said, the United States will negotiate a Free Trade Area of the Americas, a 34-nation plan first proposed in 1994 to integrate most of the economies of North and South America into a single free-trade bloc, similar in concept to the Nafta agreement with Mexico and Canada.
The president also praised Congress for renewing the Andean Trade Preferences Act, which for a decade lowered tariffs for 6,000 products from Peru, Colombia, Bolivia and Ecuador. The pact expired in December 2001.
Earlier today, Mr. Bush said that the White House would hold a conference at George Washington University on missing, exploited and runaway children on Sept. 24 and that the Department of Justice would release a booklet to schools throughout the country on how parents can safeguard their children. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); TEXTILE MFG (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TREATIES; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MOROCCO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHILE (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (89%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) UNITED STATES; SINGAPORE; MOROCCO; CHILE; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



160 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S Recruiting Countries For Court Immunity Pacts
The Bush administration, still wary of the new International Criminal Court for war crimes and genocide, is trying to line up nations one by one to pledge not to extradite Americans for trial by that body, administration officials said. So far, Romania and Israel have signed agreements. A1

Israeli Court Upholds Tactic
The Supreme Court, saying Israel is in the middle of a war, gave the army approval to destroy without notice the homes of 43 families related to suicide bombers. Israeli helicopter gunships and troops on the ground killed two Palestinian militants -- one held responsible for dispatching two suicide bombers to Tel Aviv -- in a West Bank village near Jenin. A6

Bush Signs Trade Bill
President Bush signed a bill that gives him the authority to negotiate trade deals with foreign countries without interference from Congress. The legislation, along with a recently signed corporate antifraud bill, is one of two accomplishments Mr. Bush will be able to cite as gains of his administration in battling the stalling economy. A5

Running Start for Colombian
At his inauguration today, Colombia's president-elect, Alvaro Uribe Velez, plans to introduce legislation to reduce the size of congress by nearly half. Knowing that he has to show results quickly on his campaign promises, Mr. Uribe has also marshaled support from some top business leaders for a tax increase to help battle guerrillas. A4

3 Suicides in Pakistan
Three men blew themselves up with grenades when police stopped them 25 miles from the Christian missionary school attacked by gunmen on Monday morning, the Pakistani police said. It was not known whether the men were linked to the attack, which killed six Pakistanis. A8

Playing for Jobs in Argentina
Contestants on a popular new game show, "Human Resources," compete for a prize that is increasingly rare and precious in Argentina: a paying job. Officially, the unemployment rate has now climbed to 21.5 percent, the highest in Argentine history. A3

World Briefing A9

NATIONAL A10-15

Shortage of Rural Dentists Reaches Crisis Proportions
Critical shortages of dentists in rural stretches of the upper Midwest and sparsely populated sections of northern New England the Southwest are forcing some states to consider offering incentives to attract recent dental graduates, like repaying their student loans. The crisis threatens to worsen though there are more dentists than ever across the country and more people than ever seeking dental care. A1

Stem Cell Research to Proceed
In the year since President Bush imposed strict limits on federal financing of stem cell research to discourage the destruction of embryos, the administration has told federally financed researchers they can go beyond the president's limits as long as they do so with private money. A1

Joined Twins Are Separated
Exhausted surgeons kept a wary eye on the progress of a pair of year-old Guatemalan twins after managing to separate their heads in a 22-hour operation. News that one of the twins had suffered complications quieted the euphoria that had accompanied the successful surgery. A10

Los Angeles Seeks Police Chief
Mayor James K. Hahn of Los Angeles faces the politically sensitive decision of choosing from among three finalists to be recommended by the city's Police Commission, following the forced resignation of Bernard C. Parks four months ago. A10

Containing Mad Cow's Cousin
Wildlife experts from the United States and Canada are meeting in Denver to discuss strategies for containing the spread of chronic wasting disease, a variant of mad cow disease, which has been identified in both captive and wild herds of deer and elk in nine states and two provinces. A10

U.S. Defies Judge's Order
The Justice Department has spurned a federal judge's order to produce documents to back its contention that Yasser Esam Hamdi, an American citizen, is an enemy combatant. A14

Veteran Lawmaker Prevails
John D. Dingell of Michigan, the nation's longest-serving congressman, fended off his most serious election challenge since 1964. A14

Bush in Excellent Health
President Bush's second annual medical checkup found him in "extraordinary health." A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

City Plans Various Events To Mark 9/11 Anniversary
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg detailed the city's plans to mark the first anniversary of the terrorist attack. New York City will be transformed into a state of perpetual commemoration on Sept. 11, with readings, concerts and odes to the dead, tributes that in many cases grew out of ideas from people around the world. A1

Numerous Firefighters Retiring
Scores of New York City's Fire Department supervisors, including some of its most senior surviving commanders, have retired since Sept. 11, and hundreds more have notified their union that they expect to leave in the next year. At the same time, the department's front-line firefighters are retiring at more than double the usual rate, according to fire officials. A1

A Homeless Problem Returns
The only city office where homeless families can go to apply for shelter has become so crowded it has led a judge to suggest to the city that it reopen homeless services offices it closed a decade ago. B1

Underweight Babies in Suburbs
The homicide rate plunged, infant mortality dropped and the spread of infectious diseases diminished in New York City and its suburbs in the '90s, a new study has found. But the percentage of babies born underweight, while dropping in the city, rose by 22 percent in the suburbs. The causes for the disproportionate increase in the suburbs are still unclear. B3

EDUCATION B8

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C22-23

Darrell Porter
The All-Star catcher and most valuable player of the 1982 World Series, he was 50. C23

SPORTS D1-7

New Jersey Acquires Mutombo
The Philadelphia 76ers sent center Dikembe Mutombo to the New Jersey Nets for forward Keith Van Horn and center Todd MacCulloch. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

Bargain Hunters Step In
After three days of sharp declines, stocks shot higher as bargain hunters stepped in. The Dow was up 230.46 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 24.97 points, and the Nasdaq was up 53.54 points. C1

Close to Wal-Mart
Manufacturers large and small are stampeding into the area around Bentonville, Ark. They all want to be where the action is: in Wal-Mart's backyard. A1

Cisco Earnings Higher
Cisco Systems offered some hope for the technology sector, announcing that it had posted net income of $772 million. C1

Data Sought From Stewart
Saying they had tried without success to interview Martha Stewart, members of Congress looking into her sale of ImClone shares have demanded additional records. C1

2 Airlines Lower Fares
American Airlines and Northwest have lowered business fares by 20 percent on most domestic routes where they compete with each other. Other airlines have matched the discounts to various degrees. C6

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-14

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Snags on the homeland front; the Colombian vortex; Chancellor Levy exits; Verlyn Klinkenborg on 9/11's effect on popular music.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); DENTISTRY (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); ARMIES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); POPULATION DENSITY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); HELICOPTERS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALVARO URIBE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



161 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Veteran Lawmaker Prevails
John D. Dingell of Michigan, the nation's longest-serving congressman, fended off his most serious election challenge since 1964. PAGE A14

A Day for Bargain Hunting
Stocks shot higher as bargain hunters stepped in, but doubts persisted about the strength of the economy. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Sleeping on Benches
A city agency is leaving homeless families overnight in a city office, prompting a contempt motion against a commissioner. PAGE B1

Nets Acquire Mutombo
The Philadelphia 76ers sent center Dikembe Mutombo to the New Jersey Nets for forward Keith Van Horn and Todd MacCulloch. PAGE D1

A Harlem Valentine
The sounds of rag, jazz, swing and funk that filter through "Harlem Song" are elemental forces. A review by Ben Brantley. PAGE E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (65%); HOMELESSNESS (54%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



162 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Cisco Beats Earnings Estimate, Raising Hope for Technology

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems offered investors hope today that the nation's technology sector was not continuing to deteriorate, posting stronger-than-expected earnings.
 The company, based in San Jose, Calif., is viewed as something of a bellwether for the United States economy because it is the dominant supplier of the basic equipment that routes information over the Internet. 
 Cisco announced after the close of the stock market that it had posted net income of $772 million, or 10 cents a share, for the quarter ended July 27, compared with net income of $7 million for the same quarter a year ago. 
On a pro forma basis, excluding the effects of acquisition expenses, payroll taxes on employee stock option exercises and other nonrecurring expenses, the company had a profit of $1 billion, or 14 cents a share, compared with a profit of $163 million, or two cents a share, a year ago. 
Cisco reported a revenue increase of 12 percent, to $4.8 billion for the quarter, up from $4.3 billion a year ago.
Wall Street had been expecting earnings, excluding charges, of 12 cents a share on revenue of $4.88 billion, according to financial analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
Cisco's stock closed yesterday at $12.07, up 71 cents, before the announcement, and rose further in after-hours trading, to $13.03.
For the full fiscal year, Cisco earned $1.9 billion, or 25 cents a share, on revenue of $18.9 billion. In 2001, Cisco lost $1 billion, or 14 cents a share, on sales of $22.3 billion.
Significantly, Cisco said that orders for networking equipment from United States corporate customers were above its expectations for the quarter, but it also cautioned that the trend was likely not to continue. 
The company predicted that sales to service providers like Internet companies and telecommunications firms could continue to decline for "several more quarters."
And Cisco's chief executive, John T. Chambers, said he saw no evidence that America's corporations were planning to resume capital expenditures in a major way any time soon.
Cisco nevertheless cited strength in markets like retail, education, banking and the federal government, but said that it had seen weakness in other sectors like investment banking, energy, high technology and service providers.
"They're making the best out of a bad market," said W. Stephen Kamman, a financial analyst at CIBC Work Markets. He said that the earnings surprise was due to the company's strong gross margins for the quarter, but at the same time revenues for the quarter were a little weak and momentum going forward was not particularly good.
"You've now got a company that is really captive to the winds of the global economy," Mr. Kamman said.
Responding to growing investor concern over recent financial scandals, Mr. Chambers and his chief financial officer, Larry Carter, stated at the outset of the company's conference call for financial analysts that they planned to comply with a new Securities and Exchange Commission requirement that they certify the company's financial results in formal filings next month.
"The certification will be provided without hesitation," Mr. Chambers said. 
Perhaps the most cheerful news for Cisco for the quarter was that despite fierce competition that has led to the erosion of its competitors' market share, it was continuing to show dramatic increases in gross margins, up to 67.7 percent for the current quarter from 52.3 percent for the fourth quarter in 2001. The numbers should not erode significantly in the next quarter, according to the company's executives.
In an effort to put to rest rumors that Mr. Carter is considering leaving the company soon, Mr. Chambers said that the company had debated what to say over the weekend and had decided to announce that Mr. Carter, who is well-regarded as Cisco's chief financial officer, plans to retire next May on his 60th birthday. 
At the same time, however, Mr. Chambers said that he intended to try to persuade his chief financial officer to stay on.
During the analyst call Mr. Chambers, whose pronouncements about Silicon Valley are closely followed, said that during the quarter he had become more confident about his company's ability to execute internally, while becoming more cautious about external events beyond Cisco's control. 
He said the company was well positioned for a turnaround, whenever it arrives. "I'm the optimist in this industry in the long run -- that has not changed," Mr. Chambers said.
He also noted that he was not certain whether the company's surprising strength during the quarter had come from the general financial environment or from Cisco's ability to take market share away from its competitors. 
He said the company was positioning itself for an economic upturn, but he acknowledged that he did not have a clear idea of when such a turnaround might take place.
"The real concern for everyone is when will capital spending pick up," he said.
The company also announced that Cisco's board had authorized an additional $5 billion for repurchase of Cisco stock. The addition increases the total available for stock purchases of up to $8 billion through Sept. 12, 2003. The company has already repurchased $2 billion in shares, Mr. Carter said.
The company ended the quarter with $21.5 billion in cash and equivalents, up from $21 billion the previous quarter.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about quarterly earnings for Cisco Systems referred incorrectly in some copies to the timing planned by the chief executive and the chief financial officer for complying with a new requirement that they certify the company's financial results. It is next month, not next week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief, calls himself an optimist -- "in the long run." (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Larry Carter plans to retire from Cisco next May, when he turns 60. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C8) Chart: "Edging Up"Cisco Systems, whose network routing equipment is used in most sectors of the U.S. economy, posted net income of $772 million, or 10 cents a share, for its most recent quarter. Graph tracks quarterly Cisco Systems earnings per share since October 2000. Graph tracks weekly stock price closings from 2000 through yesterday. (Sources: Company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (79%); TRENDS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SCANDALS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (89%) MARKOFF, JOHN; CHAMBERS, JOHN T 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002 



163 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Schools That Succeed 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "One Man Can't Fix New York's Schools," by Arthur Greenberg (Op-Ed, Aug. 1): 
 There is one variable that is paramount for any enduring change in urban public schools: integrating classrooms with families that have taken refuge in private and parochial schools. 
Families with high educational goals for their children seek a learning environment that has a strong academic program, embraces the arts and has ample libraries, science laboratories and athletic fields. Those are the classrooms that have success in academic performance, motivation and attendance, and they are not exclusive to high-income neighborhoods.
Schools with enriched programs provide the model for New York City public schools that can deliver children prepared to play significant roles in the future economy of the city.

JOAN D. FIRESTONE
New York, Aug. 2, 2002

The writer is special adviser to the New York City schools chancellor for arts education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



164 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
Suddenly, One House Isn't Enough

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
"WHEN people lose faith in accountants, lose faith in the clergy and lose faith in the government, and start to trust real estate agents, it's scary," said Diane Saatchi, a real estate agent in the Hamptons.
 In the weeks since the stock market began whipsawing, buyers looking for a second home in the Northeast have put their faith, if not in the agents, in the real estate. 
 In the past, when the economy shook and the stock market tumbled, vacation home catalogs gathered dust alongside Tiffany and Maserati brochures -- fantasies for another day. But this year, even with Sept. 11 and the recession hanging like a cloud, buyers are turning their country-house fantasies -- presto! -- into reality.
The quest, which is part of the robust real estate market nationwide, is more than a matter of personal finance. "This is all about fantasy, about having security, a base," said Frank Newbold, who runs the Sotheby's real estate office in East Hampton, N.Y. 
After a sluggish winter and spring, buyers are once again buying in weekend and summer destinations like Nantucket, Mass.; Rhinebeck, N.Y.; and Stone Harbor, N.J. (along with its poorer neighbors, the Wildwoods).
For Ken Beaugrand, who owns the Nantucket Real Estate Company, the first quarter was one of the worst in years. "We were at least 15 percent down from the same quarter a year ago," he said. But in the last two months, things have started to take off. "We're still down a bit from last year," he said, "but by the fall, I think we'll be pretty much even."
Things are swinging even more in the Hamptons, where buyers are stretching to afford more chimneys, more shingles and even bigger pools. "They'll pay more, and sit on a phone book without furniture for the first year," Mr. Newbold said. Two years ago, he said, "they would buy a small house, rent it out for part of the year, and the next year, trade up, like tiddlywinks -- this year, they're buying keeper houses."
Mr. Newbold said his office had 80 percent more accepted offers this July than last.
Ms. Saatchi said that business was 25 percent higher in dollar volume last month than in July 2001 -- especially at the low end (which, in the Hamptons, means $500,000 to $750,000). "Things are flying off the shelf," she said.
And not only in the Hamptons. Buyers have also been swarming to the lakes and the woods. "They're cashing out their stock portfolios," said Andrea Gabel of Gabel Real Estate in Spencertown, N.Y., near the Berkshires. "They're putting down 85 percent cash."
Business is booming. "Last year, we did $21 million," Ms. Gabel said. "By June of this year, we were up to $26 million, and I stopped counting." She has sold to artists, art gallery owners, magazine editors and, increasingly, Wall Street traders.
Today's second-home buyers are looking for instant nostalgia: meadows and fireplaces and postal carriers to greet by name. While they may be keeping the penthouse on, say, East 75th Street, it doesn't seem as glamorous, buyers say. A few years ago the country house was a status symbol, an extra piece of real estate. Now, increasingly, it feels like home.
In the past, most people traded up or down, but this year they tend to be first-time buyers. Matthew and Marion Wilson are two of them. In May, they had their first child, a girl, and decided to make the 3,000-square-foot loft they rent in Chinatown a pied-a-terre and raise her in a more traditional home. Mr. Wilson, a former investment banker, and his wife now sell rare books on the Internet. Last week, they found the house they had been waiting for in East Hampton: a three-bedroom villa on two acres north of Montauk Highway, with plenty of privacy.
Yes, Mr. Wilson said, East Hampton on a summer weekend is "Madison Avenue on Sea," but he added, "We'll have a cool breeze, we can eat out in our garden and we don't have to worry about noisy neighbors." The Wilsons, with a house-buying budget of $1 million, are in the process of making an offer. "A lot of what we saw was overpriced garbage," he said. "This is real quality, and there's room to add on."
Even so, he and his wife -- like many prospective buyers -- are nervous that real estate in the Hamptons is a bubble ready to burst. "There's so much stock market money," Mr. Wilson said. "There's been so much speculation." Like those investing in co-ops and condominiums in Manhattan, they say they hope their own real estate investments prove to be blue-chip properties that will remain stable. "That's why we've been very fussy," he said.
In the Poconos, Diane Grinaway, the owner of Century 21 Millennium in Stroudsburg, Pa., said that an influx of buyers since Sept. 11 has pushed prices 10 to 25 percent higher than they were a year ago. But instead of traditional lakeside chalets, newcomers are seeking out big houses in the countryside -- typically colonial styles that can double as primary residences if work schedules can be juggled.
The 90-minute commute to New York is "a nightmare," Ms. Grinaway said, "but some people are doing it." She added gamely, "There are buses leaving every day."
The term "second home" is increasingly obsolete as city dwellers -- not only in New York, but in places like Philadelphia and Boston -- come to think of their country houses as the new center of their home lives even if they stay somewhere else during the week, said Robert T. Rich, who owns Coldwell Banker Otton Real Estate in Stone Harbor.
"You can really see this town light up on Thursday night," he said.
With offices in five towns, Mr. Rich caters to varied income groups: he just sold a $2.4 million bay-front mansion in Stone Harbor and a two-family house in Wildwood for $87,000.
The main problem Mr. Rich and other brokers say they are now facing is a lack of listings.
"There's not a whole lot of inventory," Ms. Saatchi said, "but there's an incredible amount of irritability."
Although today's country and beach-house buyers are still reaching for their checkbooks, they don't seem entirely content.
"They're nervous, and that makes them cranky," she said. "They're cranky if people don't return their calls. I think they have subliminal anxiety since Sept. 11 -- they don't feel as safe.
"They're looking for real estate to make them feel good, and even as they're getting ready to buy it, they sense it isn't really going to work."

Best to Love Both Wisely and Well
WHILE real estate agents say that business is booming in the hottest second-home locations in the Northeast, financial planners urge would-be buyers to ask themselves, Am I doing it for love or for money?
If the purchase -- the bungalow in the Poconos or the mansion on the bluff on Martha's Vineyard -- is strictly an investment, this might be the wrong time. Real estate is cyclical, and prices are still high, some say precariously so. Planners and accountants are warning clients to buy a second house only if they love it and plan to hang on to it.
Stuart Kessler, a senior partner at Goldstein Golub Kessler, a financial planning firm in Manhattan, said that prices in some of the most popular "blue chip" vacation house locations, including the Hamptons, southern Vermont and the Berkshires, may well be overinflated. "Is it time to jump in?" he asked. "I'm not sure it is."
Prices have soared since the last real estate recession, a decade ago, and have gone up substantially in the last five years. An 18th-century saltbox in the Berkshires that went for $120,000 four years ago just sold for $400,000; a two-bedroom shingled 1910 cottage on a quarter acre in Sag Harbor, N.Y., sold in 1999 for $370,000, and again last year for $610,000. If a second home has antiquity and privacy and is in good condition, it can sell within weeks, said Joseph L. Carini of Wheeler & Taylor Real Estate in Great Barrington, Mass. 
Are you thinking of renting out your new vacation house? You've decided that the rent will cover all the costs? Remember that the rental market can fall as easily as the sales market. (Right now, rentals are way down in the Hamptons.) And don't forget taxes, lawn mowing and insurance. (Insurance for landlords may be a lot more.)
Even real estate agents concede that a vacation house is not the same as a primary residence. "Remember," Mr. Carini said, "it may be a desire -- but it's not an absolute need." TRACIE ROZHON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marion and Matthew Wilson of New York (with their daughter) rent a house in Amagansett and plan to buy. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (61%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



165 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Car Sales in U.S. Lift Earnings At Toyota 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
The Toyota Motor Corporation said today that its profit more than doubled in the first fiscal quarter as a result of strong demand for its luxury models, a weak yen and strong dollar, and a one-time gain from its pension fund.
 The company's outlook for the rest of the year, however, is clouded by slow sales at home, a stronger currency and signs of a slowdown in consumer spending in the American market, where Japanese manufacturers earn about three-quarters of their profits. 
 Propelling the gains in the quarter, running from April through June, was a 13 percent jump in vehicle sales, to 1.5 million, with the company's high-end Lexus line leading the way. The strong performance in the United States came even as Toyota reduced purchasing incentives, something that General Motors and Ford have relied on to clear inventory and bolster sales. 
Toyota was caught off guard by the demand for its cars in the United States and has shipped more vehicles from Japan to meet that demand. Last week, the company raised its 2002 global sales targets by 3.8 percent and made plans to increase exports by 18 percent.
"Barring any drastic change in the U.S. economy, we will probably be able to see the North American market do fairly well," said Takeshi Suzuki, a Toyota director.
Toyota also squeezed gains out of a weak link in its global network, Europe, where demand for the RAV4 sport utility vehicle and the Corolla helped increase sales by 15 percent.
The company, the world's third-largest automaker and Japan's largest, earned 352 billion yen -- about $2.8 billion -- in the quarter, up 117 percent from the quarter a year earlier. Most of those earnings came after Toyota shifted some of its pension obligations because of to a legal change. Without that move, profit would have risen 16 percent.
A weak spot for Toyota remains at home, where it has 43 percent of the Japanese market. Its sedans and other full-size cars face stiff pressure from subcompacts and other small cars that budget-minded Japanese drivers prefer. The company sold 8.2 percent fewer cars in Japan than it did a year earlier.
Toyota's Japanese rivals are also chipping away at its share of the United States market. 
Honda will release its updated Accord in September to complement its minivan, the Odyssey. Nissan will introduce half a dozen new models in the United States this year, including a revamped version of its Z sports car line. The Nissan Altima was named car of the year in North America.
"Toyota's domestic sales are falling short of target, but they are being countered by much higher exports to the U.S.," said Chris Redl, an auto analyst with UBS Warburg here. "However, Toyota is at a lower point in its product cycle, so their lineup is not too hot compared to Nissan and Honda."
More worrying are signs that the economic recovery in the United States, the world's largest car market, is losing steam. Data last week showed that the United States economy grew in the second quarter at nearly half the annual pace analysts had forecast, with consumer spending slowing noticeably. 
And like Japan's other carmakers, Toyota could face pressure later this year if the value of the dollar fails to recover against the recently rising yen. Toyota calculated last quarter's earnings at a rate of 127 yen to the dollar. The currency, however, has strengthened to an exchange rate of about 120 yen, and should it remain there, Toyota's dollar-based profits would be eroded when they are calculated in Japan.
The potential for a rising yen and slowing economic growth in the United States has shaved 25 percent off the value of Toyota's shares since their peak in March. 
Today, however, Toyota shares rose more than 4 percent both here and in trading of its American depository receipts in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MINIVANS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SALES PLAN (76%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); SPORTS CARS (60%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (98%); TM (NYSE) (98%); 7203 (TSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



166 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Japan Savers May Find They're Paying Banks 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Racked by deflation and eager to stave off a bank crisis, Japan is considering pushing its rock-bottom interest rates on some bank accounts into uncharted territory: below zero.
 Lawmakers have suggested an exception to a law ending the government's guarantee on savings and other accounts that would allow the full guarantee to remain for no-interest settlement accounts that businesses use to pay their bills. Now, the government is considering allowing individuals to also have government guaranteed settlement accounts that would earn no interest, but these accounts would charge fees. 
 As part of his broader reform of the financial industry, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi wanted the government to protect savings of no more than 10 million yen ($83,132) for each account if a bank failed, a system similar to that of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the United States. The more limited protection, which was already delayed a year, is scheduled to start next April. But lawmakers from Mr. Koizumi's own party, fearing that the Japanese will abandon smaller, weaker banks and move their money to bigger banks that appear less likely to go under, are pushing for the loophole for businesses settlement accounts. Aware that such a provision might set off a rush by individuals to open such accounts, and to defray the costs of the guarantee, lawmakers returned to the drawing board. 
All the maneuvering has already drawn some criticism. "We are disappointed with Prime Minister Koizumi's backtracking on his commitment to reform the banking system," said Marshall Gittler, a currency strategist at Bank of America in Tokyo. "We are disappointed that Japan once again has decided to reward incumbency and avoid a market solution to a problem."
But regulators say that keeping the government guarantee on the business settlement, or clearing, accounts is key to stabilizing the financial system. "We have to discuss how to protect the credit clearing function because it is part of the economy's infrastructure," said Shokichi Takagi, commissioner of the Financial Services Agency.
These clearing accounts pay no interest, but since companies use them to transfer payments to other businesses, not as investment vehicles, few complain. That Japanese people -- worried about losing their nest eggs -- would be willing to pay banks for the full protection of their assets is another reminder of how little faith they have in their financial system, and how a decade of deflation has eroded their confidence in other investments, like stocks. 
While the proposal to protect these checking accounts would formally introduce negative interest rates, some Japanese have been paying to save for several years. Banks have been lowering the interest they pay since the Bank of Japan started cutting rates in 1991. In 1999, the central bank started driving short-term interest rates toward zero. And though it costs them almost nothing to borrow from the markets, banks continued slicing the amount they pay their customers. Ordinary savings accounts now yield as little as 0.001 percent a year, down from about 2 percent a decade ago, and one trip to the bank can wipe out years of interest.
The sting has been softened because consumer and wholesale prices continue falling. Accounting for this deflation, so-called real interest rates are actually in positive territory. But as Mr. Gittler of Bank of America said, "You can't buy a sofa with deflation." In fact, the minuscule interest rates the banks pay are brutal for pensioners and others who live off their investment income.
With their potential earnings diminishing, many people are cutting back on spending, sapping the broader economy.
The negative interest rate may have subtle effects on other parts of the economy, too. Frustrated with bank fees, savers may withdraw their money and stuff it under the futon. In recent months, vaults and safe boxes for the home have been selling well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); TRENDS (67%) BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



167 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Let's hear from those who feel government has a role in stabilizing the economy.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick, who teaches at Cooper Union, is the editor of Challenge Magazine and of a new journal of social health, Indicators. His new book, "Why Economies Grow," will be published by Basic Books in October. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
SO where are the economists?
 The latest data revisions from the Commerce Department show that the economy sank into recession well before Sept. 11, and not long after stock prices began to plummet. Consumer spending, which had been mysteriously strong, turned out to be significantly weaker. Little growth in the second quarter and July's paltry employment gains make the prospects of the dreaded double-dip recession a real possibility. 
 It is time to revive an old issue: Just how inherently stable are economies? But instead of getting much guidance these days from contemporary economists, we need to turn to some of the giants from the past. The work of the late Hyman Minsky, a well-regarded economic theoretician, is especially on the mark. 
He argued in a 1986 book called "Stabilizing an Unstable Economy" that precisely because financial markets at some point lead to excessive investment and speculation, the economy itself is prone to instability.
And what safeguarded the economy? Monetary policy is often inadequate, Mr. Minsky argued. Interest rates could be cut, but companies would not invest unless they thought there would be growing demand for their products. That is certainly true in the case of Japan today.
Rather, Mr. Minsky wrote, government itself is a necessary bulwark against recession. In particular, so-called automatic stabilizers are ideal tools for the job.
Today, Mr. Minsky's view is more relevant than ever, explain two economists, Charles J. Whalen of Wells College and Jeffrey B. Wenger of the Economic Policy Institute, because the nation's automatic stabilizers are much weaker than they once were.
Automatic stabilizers are programs like unemployment insurance and welfare that increase during economic downturns but recede in good times. As more people are unemployed, for example, the government disburses more, helping to maintain demand in a declining economy.
More sign up for welfare as well, helping to place a floor under the economy. What makes them especially useful is that when the economy strengthens again, the automatic stabilizer programs are reduced as, for example, unemployment declines.
Mr. Whalen and Mr. Wenger highlight four key automatic stabilizer programs that have lost impact.
First, the proportion of unemployed receiving benefits is now at record lows since cutbacks in the early 1980's. Unemployment insurance spending is consequently a much smaller proportion of gross domestic product.
Second, the 1996 welfare reform has no significant provision to increase spending as caseloads increase in tough times, unlike before 1996.
Third, a highly progressive tax system was once an indirect automatic stabilizer. As incomes rose, taxpayers moved into higher tax brackets, helping moderate speculative booms and closing the federal budget deficit. The same happened, to a lesser degree, in reverse. Now, there are far fewer such brackets.
Fourth, a higher minimum wage was also an automatic stabilizer as workers lost jobs and had to resort to lower-paying work. The minimum wage is considerably lower, discounted for inflation, than it was in the 1970's.
If there had not been a sharp increase in military and disaster relief spending in response to Sept. 11, in fact, the economic recovery may well have been even more tepid than it has turned out to be and a double dip more likely.
Other factors holding up the economy may also weaken soon. House prices, which have been supporting consumer spending, could be on the brink of falling as supply is beginning to look suspiciously high. Consumer confidence is already declining sharply, as is confidence in how President Bush is handling the economy.
A war in Iraq would pump up fiscal stimulus. But it would also drive up oil prices, much as it did in the Persian Gulf war, and dampen consumer demand. Too much spending could also undermine confidence in the markets as well as the inevitable uncertainty of war.
As the dollar declines, it will strengthen exports and weaken imports. But much of the world depends on America's imports, and weakness abroad is not easily offset because foreign economies are straddled by the new hands-off policy ideas that limit fiscal stimulus. The European Union has stringent restrictions on the size of budget deficits. Other nations are constrained by the International Monetary Fund from using fiscal stimulus as a serious stabilizing mechanism. 
Finally, any more market turmoil will only add to the concerns. Despite the recent passage of useful new legislation, there are many areas that remain unaddressed by Congress, including accounting for stock options, pension protection, conflicts of interest between brokers and investment bankers, and the complete lack of regulation of financial derivatives. The job is far from finished.
So far, most economists -- particularly those who recognize that the government has a role to play in stabilizing the economy -- remain on the sidelines. That leaves the playing field to those, including President Bush's advisers, who contend that falling stock prices are proof that unfettered markets work well and correct themselves. 
This is quite a claim. For years, the overvalued financial markets sent highly misleading signals that caused hundreds of billions and arguably trillions of dollars of valuable national savings to be misallocated to unneeded and wasteful investment. Now we know part of this resulted from corporate deceit. This was an enormous market failure that could have been mitigated by better regulation and earlier efforts to dampen speculation.
What is clear is that Mr. Bush's tax cuts, by contrast, are not the way to go. They provide near-term stimulus, but they, unlike automatic stabilizers, do not decline in future years. They portend large federal deficits in the future. 
There are good economists who believe that deregulation has gone too far, and that economies sometimes need righting by government. These economists should speak louder.

GRAPHIC: Photo: People lined up for job interviews at a California State Employment Development Department office in Los Angeles earlier this year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BONDS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; WELFARE (US); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; MINSKY, HYMAN (1919-96); WHALEN, CHARLES J; WENGER, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



168 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Work Starts on North Korea's U.S.-Backed Nuclear Plant 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: KUMHO, North Korea, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
With the first Bush administration envoy to visit North Korea joining in a rare ceremony, work began today on the foundation of a long-planned nuclear reactor, by far the largest Western aid project in this Communist nation and one on which its future cooperation with the outside world will hinge.
 The $4.6 billion reactor to be built here was first envisaged in 1994, when the United States and North Korea were edging toward war over suspicions that this country was trying to build nuclear weapons. It has been repeatedly delayed by North Korea's jagged relations with the United States and other nations. 
 Today, a succession of Western diplomats mounted the podium to declare the project the best hope for preventing nuclear proliferation -- and to urge North Korea to take convincing steps to comply with the pact that undergirds relations with the United States. 
Under that pact, the so-called Agreed Framework, negotiated in 1994, Washington committed itself to organizing an international consortium to build two light-water nuclear reactors for this poor country. In exchange, North Korea agreed to abandon and dismantle two existing graphite reactors, as well as a third that was under construction. North Korea -- which President Bush this year identified as one of three nations belonging to an "axis of evil" -- was also required to account for all plutonium it had produced and place it under international supervision. 
Time and again today, American and European officials hammered home the point that any hesitation now on the part of North Korea to open itself up to inspectors would result in a freeze in construction, leaving two coreless reactor shells in place and North Korea no closer to meeting its energy needs.
North Korea "must begin meaningful work with the energy agency right now," the United States special envoy here, Jack L. Pritchard, said.
"The Agreed Framework has been a key component of U.S.-North Korean policy," he said. "When we agreed to the terms of the Agreed Framework, we did so with the full expectation that all aspects of our concerns over North Korea's nuclear program would be resolved finally and completely."
Critics of the agreement have said that it is folly for the United States and its allies in the European Union, Japan and South Korea to give nuclear power plants to a country that remains technically at war with South Korea and maintains one of the world's largest armies, even while its economy collapses. 
They also complain that North Korea has failed, so far, to allow unhindered inspection of its nuclear facilities by experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency and warn that North Korea may simply use the powerful light-water reactors to produce new supplies of plutonium.
Officials of the consortium building the plants, the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, however, dismissed concerns that North Korea would be given operable nuclear power plants before it had cooperated fully with international inspectors. Furthermore, they say, the design of the new reactors would make it far more difficult, albeit not impossible, for North Korea to produce weapons-grade plutonium.
If the North Koreans do not cooperate with the international energy agency, "there is no chance whatsoever that they will get delivery of the critical components for these reactors," said Charles Kartman, the executive director of the consortium. "What they will end up with instead is a big hole in the ground, a lot of concrete and some steel fixtures. Do you want a completely uncontrolled nuclear program here, or do you want the agreed framework? You have to choose." 
The international energy agency has said that it would require about three years to complete a survey of North Korea's nuclear-related plants and laboratories. Western diplomats said here today that this put a premium on timely cooperation from North Korea because the reactors under construction here would also be ready to receive their nuclear materials in about three years.
Mr. Pritchard said his presence reflected the Bush administration's continued support for the Agreed Framework, which has been criticized by some in Congress, as well as by members of both the Clinton and Bush administrations.
Almost from its inauguration, the Bush administration has sent mixed signals about North Korea and has reacted skeptically toward South Korea's efforts toward reconciliation with the North, through President Kim Dae Jung's "sunshine" policy. 
Washington's reaffirmation of the nuclear project under the Agreed Framework, however, is regarded by many diplomats in Asia as an expression of continuity in American policy toward North Korea.
The graphite-style reactors built here in the past are regarded by scientists as optimal for the production of weapons-grade plutonium. North Korea is suspected of having produced two nuclear weapons and is known to possess enough plutonium for an additional 10 bombs.
North Korea closed those reactors in 1994 and has allowed the International Atomic Energy Agency to post monitors to safeguard the nuclear material from the plants. North Korea must also account for an unspecified amount of "missing" plutonium, which diplomats say may already be incorporated in weapons.
"The Agreed Framework is not appeasement," said one official who is close to the construction project here. "It takes away rights that the North Koreans had, to possess a reprocessing plant and graphite reactors, and it has placed I.A.E.A. inspectors on the old reactor site 365 days a year. 
"The critics would have us throw this away, but this is a real source of stability." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; KUMHO (NORTH KOREA)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



169 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Increased in July, And Import Prices Jumped 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Wholesale inventories grew in June at their fastest rate in 19 months, the Commerce Department said today, suggesting that at least as of two months ago, companies were eager to rebuild depleted stocks to keep pace with demand.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said today that import prices posted a rise in July that was sharper than expected, pushed up by a big gain in the cost of imported oil. 
 Wholesale inventories increased 0.3 percent in June, to $281.86 billion, after remaining unchanged in May, the Commerce Department said. The rise in June was the biggest since a 0.6 percent increase in November 2000. 
Sales of goods climbed 0.6 percent, faster than the inventories increase.
The growth in inventories was led by increases in stocks of cars and professional equipment like computers. Car inventories rose 1.1 percent in June, while professional equipment was up 1.2 percent.
Sales of cars at the wholesale level increased 0.3 percent. Professional equipment sales increased 2.8 percent.
The strength for those categories of goods was partly offset by declines in the inventories and sales of machinery. Factories appear to be postponing purchases of equipment until they are more certain that the recovery is solid.
Total inventories of durable goods inched up 0.1 percent in June. Sales of durable goods rose 0.5 percent. 
The report said that wholesale companies kept on hand 1.23 month's worth of goods in June, the same as in May. But that was lower than the 1.34 months' worth that wholesalers maintained a year ago.
The Labor Department report said that import prices rose 0.4 percent last month, the biggest gain since April, after a revised 0.3 percent fall in June.
The drop in June was originally reported as 0.6 percent. 
The department said petroleum import prices were up 4.9 percent in July, reversing a revised 4.8 percent decline a month earlier. Petroleum import prices have risen 47.4 percent since December. 
Excluding petroleum, import prices were unchanged last month, indicating little risk of imported inflation. 
In a third report, the Federal Reserve said today that consumer borrowing -- credit card debt as well as car and personal loans -- increased $8.4 billion in June, to a seasonally adjusted $1.713 trillion. Though that was less than the $9.5 billion increase in May, it was larger than the $7.8 billion that Wall Street had expected.
Revolving credit, which includes credit and charge cards, rose about $3.8 billion in June after a $2.4 billion gain in May. Nonrevolving credit, which largely reflects car loans, were up about $4.5 billion, less than a $7.1 billion increase in May. 
Analysts say they expect many homeowners to begin tapping the appreciation in the value of their houses to start paying down high-interest debt.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of Change June: +5.9%May: +6.7%April: +6.1% Graph tracks net change since January 2001. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (85%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



170 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Oil Giant On Lawsuit In Indonesia 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
The State Department is urging a United States court to dismiss a lawsuit brought by a human rights group against Exxon Mobil over its operations in a war-torn province of Indonesia. In response to a request by the corporation for an opinion, the department declared that pursuit of the case would harm Washington's campaign against terrorism.
 Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim country, is a focus of the Bush administration's effort to fight terrorists, and any action by the United States that could interrupt the country's revenues would be perceived by the Indonesian government as interference in its internal affairs, the department said. 
 And in a twist, the letter by the department's legal adviser, William H. Taft IV, cited business competition from China in Indonesia as another factor in the case. 
The International Labor Rights Fund, a nonprofit group based in Washington, represents 11 Indonesian villagers who accuse Exxon Mobil of doing nothing to halt the Indonesian military's killing, torture and rape of residents near the company's plant in Aceh Province.
The army is charged under Indonesian law with protecting national security assets, including natural gas fields like the one in Aceh, where it is fighting separatists.
Exxon Mobil, the world's biggest energy company, sought the opinion, arguing that the suit would set back efforts to fight terrorism. 
Judge Louis F. Oberdorfer of the U.S. District Court in Washington agreed to request a nonbinding opinion. The judge's decision on whether to proceed to trial is pending.
The State Department, which had the option of rendering a neutral opinion, sent its reply to the court last week. Copies of Mr. Taft's letter to the judge were released today by the United States Embassy here.
Mr. Taft's letter suggested that Chinese oil companies, which have made significant purchases in Indonesia in the past six months, might try to replace the American energy giant if it were forced to leave. The Bush administration has shown growing concern about China's increasing economic and political interests in Southeast Asia.
The lawsuit is one of a series in which human rights groups have sued multinational companies in American courts in an attempt to hold the corporations more accountable for the repercussions of foreign investment on local populations.
Human rights groups denounced the State Department opinion. "Corporate responsibility shouldn't stop at the water's edge," Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, said. He said the Bush administration "shouldn't be trying to stop this court case."
At the same time, Mr. Roth said that Human Rights Watch "takes no position" on claims regarding Exxon Mobil's operations in Indonesia.
At a news conference today at the American Embassy here, Ambassador Ralph Boyce said that the State Department's opinion "expressly reaffirms our human rights concerns in Indonesia."
The letter, which was a matter of contention within the department between those who favored a strong stance protecting human rights in Indonesia and those who wanted a strong commitment to efforts against terrorism, roused considerable interest because of its timing.
The State Department opinion was delivered in the same week as the visit here by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. He told Indonesians last Friday that the United States was prepared to renew military ties, though on a measured basis.
The letter to the judge mentioned the poor human rights record of the Indonesian Army.
"We would like to reiterate that a lasting, peaceful solution to the Aceh conflict that maintains Indonesian sovereignty can only be achieved if the military and police end human rights abuses," Mr. Taft wrote.
In presenting the department's argument that the case should not proceed, Mr. Taft said Indonesia "serves as a focal point U.S. initiatives in the ongoing war against Al Qaeda and other dangerous terrorist organizations." Those efforts, he said, could be "imperiled in numerous ways if Indonesia and its officials curtailed cooperation in response to perceived disrespect for its sovereign interests."
Moreover, because the investment climate was deteriorating in Indonesia, the suit against Exxon Mobil would further scare Western investors, the State Department said. It suggested that Chinese companies were waiting in the wings, saying, "We would expect that foreign companies, such as from the People's Republic of China" would be "far less concerned about human rights abuses, or about upholding best business practices." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TORTURE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR RIGHTS FORUM (83%) EXXON MOBIL CORP; INTERNATIONAL LABOR RIGHTS FUND 

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) INDONESIA; ACEH PROVINCE (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



171 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Late Rally Gives the Dow 2nd Triple-Digit Gain in 2 Days

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A burst of buying yesterday gave the Dow Jones industrials their second straight triple-digit gain for the first time in nearly three months. 
 After a session spent vacillating from modest gains to losses, the market began to climb sharply in the last hour. 
 Analysts attributed the late surge to big institutional investors placing bets on stocks, which set off a wave of buying. Better-than-expected earnings and expectations of another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve, which meets next week, also contributed to the gains. 
"It's momentum driven," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. "There's some enthusiasm for Cisco's numbers and what the Fed may do next week." 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 182.06 points, or 2.2 percent, at 8,456.15, after climbing 230.46 points on Tuesday. The last time the index scored two straight triple-digit advances was May 13 and 14. 
The broader market also posted gains. The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.35 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,280.90, after advancing 53.54 points on Tuesday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 17.20 points, or 2 percent, to 876.77, after Tuesday's gain of 24.97. 
Shares in Cisco Systems, rose 92 cents, to $12.99, after the company reported slightly stronger-than-expected profits for its fiscal fourth quarter, but a cautious outlook for the rest of the year. 
Other networking shares also advanced, including Broadcom, which closed up 30 cents, at $17.42. 
Among blue chips, drug stocks rose on stronger-than-expected earnings from Watson Pharmaceuticals. Watson rose $1.80, to $20.90, and Eli Lilly advanced $2.88, to $55.52. 
Retailers traded higher ahead of July sales results that will be released on Thursday. Wal-Mart Stores climbed $1.10, to $48.38, and Best Buy rose 80 cents, to $30.80. 
Buying was so widespread that even financial stocks rose, despite Merrill Lynch cutting its outlook on several investment firms. Goldman, Sachs rose $1.05, to $70.95, and Morgan Stanley gained 33 cents, to $38.39. 
Still, analysts were guarded about reading too much into the market's two-day rally, saying investors are still cautious about the market's prospects. 
"Valuations are still high, earnings are not very good, and the economy is soft, so it's tough to get a lot of progress to the upside with all this overhang," said Gary Kaltbaum, a market technician for Investors' Edge Partners in Orlando, Fla. "This volatility is not going to go away anytime soon." 
Others said Wall Street's gains are vulnerable, because they stem largely from institutional investors, like hedge fund managers, who capitalize on moving quickly in and out of the market. 
"The markets are so volatile and so thin," said Michael Murphy, head trader for Wachovia Securities. "There's just no reason for people to go out and throw everything in the market right now." --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
(By Reuters)
Treasury prices increased yesterday, pushing down yields as a wobbly stock market and an uncertain economic outlook had many investors turning to government securities.
Demand for Treasuries came in part on expectations building in the market that the Federal Reserve may cut interest rates before the end of the year to help rekindle cooling economic growth. 
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped to 4.31 percent, from 4.33 percent on Tuesday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, increased 8/32, to 104 14/32.
The yield on the 30-year note dropped to 5.22 percent, from 5.23 percent, while the price increased 7/32, to 102 10/32.

Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.880
High Yield: 4.390%
Low Yield: 4.250%
Median Yield: 4.300%
Total applied for: $24,852,355
Accepted: $19,644,624
Noncompetitive: $190,474
Interest set at: 4 3/8

The 10-year notes mature on Aug. 15, 2012.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "10-Year Treasury Bonds Notes"High yield in quarterly refunding auction. Graph tracks yields from 1998 through 2002. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); RETAILERS (67%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (71%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (71%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BROADCOM CORP (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%) NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (71%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); LLY (SWX) (53%); LLY (NYSE) (53%); LEL (LSE) (53%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



172 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Ford Heir Says Nation's Affair With theCar Has Lost Its Zip 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: TRAVERSE CITY, Mich., Aug. 7 

 BODY:
William Clay Ford Jr. said today that a credibility gap on environmental issues had eroded America's love for cars. Mr. Ford, the chairman and chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, also said he wanted to "lower the temperature" of the industry's often contentious relationship with California regulators. 
 "During the nearly 25 years I've worked in the industry, the love affair that people have had with automobiles has in some ways grown stale, and some would say it's even dying," Mr. Ford said. "If you remember, in California, people used to write songs about T-Birds and Corvettes. Today, they write regulations." 
 Two weeks ago, Gov. Gray Davis of California signed a landmark bill that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by the 2008 model year, the first such action at the state or federal level. The auto industry is greatly concerned with the potential cost of the measure and said it would probably challenge it in court. California regulators are also intent on forcing carmakers to produce electric vehicles, but that plan, due to start this year, has been delayed by a court challenge from General Motors and DaimlerChrysler.
Mr. Ford's speech, at an industry management conference in this northwestern Michigan resort area, was his most forceful on environmental issues since becoming chief executive of the financially struggling company in October.
Before taking the helm, he was one of the few industry executives to talk about issues like global warming. But groups like the Sierra Club have bitterly criticized Mr. Ford recently because of his company's participation in lobbying campaigns against increased federal gas-mileage standards and California's initiatives.
Mr. Ford, while saying he did not support the California plan to force companies to produce zero-emission vehicles like electric cars, said his industry did face a problem on environmentalism akin to that of others on accounting and corporate governance. And he urged a more cooperative approach with regulators.
"The same basic issue, lack of trust, is there," he said, but added that he thought the auto industry was making a good-faith effort to solve the problem by pushing hard on two technologies: vehicles with hybrid engines, which combine gasoline and electricity, and fuel cells, a clean but complex technology that draws power from hydrogen. Toyota and Honda are already selling hybrid cars, and Ford has said it will start selling a hybrid sport utility vehicle at the end of next year.
"New technology could rejuvenate the love affair people have with automobiles by making it possible for them not just to love their own cars," he said, "but to love everyone else's as well."
Several other top executives also spoke at the conference. Dieter Zetsche, the Chrysler unit's chief executive, said the company would make bolstering its car business a priority. Chrysler derives 70 percent of its sales from light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, minivans and pickup trucks. That share is far higher than in the industry at large; last year was the first time light-truck sales exceeded those of passenger cars, a trend that has been reducing the gas mileage of the average new vehicle.
"We will refocus our attention on passenger cars," Mr. Zetsche said. "Two-thirds of the 21 new and refreshed vehicles we will soon introduce will be car-based."
But that does not mean they will be passenger cars, a Chrysler spokesman said. The term "car-based" is a confusing one in Detroit. Small S.U.V.'s are considered car-based in their design because their underbodies have more in common with a car and lack the stiff steel beams of pickup trucks. But many car-based vehicles, including Chrysler's PT Cruiser and the Audi Allroad, can still be configured to be regulated as light trucks and permitted to use, on average, 33 percent more gasoline. 
In another speech today, Hiroyuki Yoshino, president and chief executive of the Honda Motor Company, said China was perhaps his company's biggest future growth market. 
"Efforts to build a strong foundation in China have been very similar to the early stages of our operations in America," he said, adding that "for the coming years, business in China will be at the forefront of my attention."
Honda's goal is to have 20 million new customers annually by the fiscal year ending in March 2005, up from 12.7 million in the most recent fiscal year.
"Significantly, half of these customers, 10 million, will be in Asia," he said. 
Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman of General Motors, said his company would not match Chrysler's new seven-year, 70,000-mile powertrain warranty because he thought such a plan would be too costly and not lure enough buyers. Mr. Lutz, 70, the innovative former Chrysler president who has reinvigorated G.M.'s product development operations, said he might also stay beyond the two years left on his three-year contract. 
Several executives also extolled diesel technology, which is prevalent in Europe but has faced regulatory hurdles here and among some has conjured up bad memories of the "dirty diesels" of the 1970's. Carmakers say the modern diesel engine is much cleaner.
"We should get diesels in the mix because it's one way we could get 10 to 15 percent fuel-economy improvement," Mr. Lutz said. But new clean air regulations, to take effect in 2007, are seen as a deterrent.
No manufacturer could meet the new rules now, Mr. Zetsche said, adding, "Either we find a way to meet those extremely demanding targets or we should have meaningful discussions with legislators to see if this really makes sense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Clay Ford Jr., the Ford Motor chairman, speaking at an industry management conference yesterday near Traverse City, Mich. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); SONG WRITING (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%) AUTOMOBILES; AIR POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (57%) HAKIM, DANNY; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



173 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Profit Increases 79% At Clorox Company 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
The Clorox Company said today that its quarterly profit rose 79 percent as strong sales in North America helped offset poor economic conditions in Latin America, where it had to write down the value of assets. 
 Clorox, which makes bleach, Glad plastic bags and Hidden Valley salad dressing, also said it had been helped by sales of new products, like the Clorox ReadyMop. 
 Clorox said it had earned $145 million, or 63 cents a share, compared with $81 million, or 34 cents a share, a year ago. Earnings in the 2002 quarter were reduced by $29 million as a result of a charge related to writing down the value of the company's Brazilian business in the wake of economic turmoil in that country. 
Sales in the quarter, which ended June 30 and was the fourth quarter of the company's fiscal year, rose 3 percent, to $1.14 billion.
Household product sales rose 4 percent in North America, with volume up 2 percent, helped by sales of Clorox ReadyMop and Formula 409 cleanser. Excluding divestitures, sales rose 6 percent, with volume up 4 percent. 
Specialty-product sales rose 5 percent, with volume up 2 percent, helped by record shipments of Kingsford charcoal, Armor All wipes and tire protection products, and K. C. Masterpiece marinades. Excluding divestitures, volume rose 4 percent and sales rose 7 percent.
Both household-product sales and volume fell 5 percent in Latin America and other regions; volume fell in Argentina, Colombia and Chile. Excluding divestitures, volume fell 3 percent and sales fell 5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CLOROX CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: CLOROX CO 

TICKER: CLX (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (98%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (98%) SIC2842 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOODS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



174 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Global Arms Sales to Developing Nations Are Tumbling, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
International arms sales to the developing world tumbled steeply last year, reaching the lowest level in eight years, as those nations curtailed weapons purchases because of the global economic downturn, according to a new Congressional study.
 Global arms sales overall, including weapons deals in developed and developing nations, also dropped significantly last year, to the lowest total since 1997, the report said. 
 Even in the current economic turmoil, the United States maintained its dominance as the leading weapons supplier, followed by Russia, whose sales to Iran continue to be an issue of great concern to American officials.
Israel was the largest buyer of weapons last year among the countries categorized in the study as developing nations, although experts say the sales were part of long-term procurement plans rather than a response to specific developments in the the Israel-Palestinian conflict. 
The study, "Conventional Arms Transfers to Developing Nations, 1994-2001," was published this week by the Congressional Research Service, an arm of the Library of Congress. 
The annual nonpartisan report is widely considered the most authoritative resource available to the public on worldwide weapons sales, as opposed to classified studies for the government and military.
There are two ways to track the flow of arms, by contracts for sales or transfers and by weapons deliveries. 
Because of production times, deliveries do not correspond to agreements signed in a given year.
The author of the study, Richard F. Grimmett, found that the value of arms transfer agreements signed with developing nations last year was nearly $16 billion and that the value of arms delivered to those nations was $14.4 billion.
Those figures were the lowest of the eight-year period that the study covered, wrote Mr. Grimmett, a specialist in national defense at the Congressional Research Service.
For comparison, the report adjusted the sums for inflation, a measurement called "constant 2001 dollars."
According to the report, the total value of all arms transfer deals worldwide, agreements for weapons signed by developed and developing nations, was nearly $26.4 billion last year, a significant drop from slightly more than $40 billion in 2000.
"This is a substantial decrease in arms agreements values over 2000, and is the first time since 1997 that total arms agreements decreased from the previous year," Mr. Grimmett wrote. The 1997 figure was $25.4 billion.
Even with the decline in sales and deliveries, "developing nations continue to be the primary focus of foreign arms sales activity by weapons suppliers," the report states.
In the eight years that the study covers, the value of arms transfer agreements to developing nations averaged 68.3 percent of all such deals worldwide. Even last year, purchase agreements with the developing countries remained high, at slightly more than 60 percent of worldwide sales.
The United States ranked first in arms transfer agreements with the developing world last year, signing almost $7 billion, or 43.6 percent, of all contracts. 
Russia followed, with $5.7 billion, or 29.6 percent, and China was third, with $600 million, or 3.8 percent, of all agreements.
The United States was also the leader in arms transfer agreements overall, to developed and developing nations, with deals last year valued at $12.1 billion, or 45.8 percent of all agreements. That total was significantly down from deals worth $18.9 billion signed in 2000.
Russia followed with $5.8 billion in total agreements last year, a drop from $8.4 billion in 2000. France ranked third in total worldwide arms transfer agreements, with $2.9 billion, also considerably less than its 2000 figure of $4.3 billion.
Of those nations categorized in the study as part of the developing world, Israel led in signing arms deals last year, agreeing to acquire $2.5 billion in conventional arms, followed by China, which signed $2.1 billion in contracts, and Egypt, with $2 billion.
"Most recently, many developing nations have curtailed their expenditures on weaponry, primarily due to their limited financial resources," the report said. "Given the tenuous state of the global economy, even some prospective arms purchasers with significant financial resources have been cautious in making major new weapons purchases."
Many such nations are now focusing on upgrading weapons systems and deferring buying new expensive arsenals, the report stated.
Persian Gulf states, which have since the war with Iraq consistently been the largest weapons buyers, continued to decline in the annual rankings, because they have taken delivery of expensive weapons systems bought in past years.
Even so, the United Arab Emirates remained the leading arms buyer in the developing world from 1994 to 2001, signing for $16 billion in weapons.
In the period 1998 to 2001, Russia became the dominant arms supplier to Iran, signing arms-transfer deals worth $900 million -- the vast majority of Iran's total agreements for $1.2 billion in weapons. European nations sold the rest of the total to Iran.
From 1994 to 1997, China sold Iran $900 million in arms of Iran's $1.6 billion in purchases. In that period, Russia signed deals with Iran for $200 million, and European countries supplied the rest.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Arms Trade Slowdown"A new report finds that arms sales declined sharply last year, especially to the developing countries, a result of the global economic slowdown. Arms sales worldwide Graph shows the arms sales to developing countries, to developed countries and the total sales worlwide since 1994. Adjusted for inflation in 2001 dollars. (Source: Congressional Research Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (93%); ARMS TRADE (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); RANKINGS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%) ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%)

PERSON: SHANKER, THOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) RUSSIA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



175 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Decoding North Korea 

 BODY:
After years of delay, construction began yesterday on one of the two nuclear reactors that a Western consortium is building for North Korea, capping an encouraging few weeks in that country's erratic relations with the outside world. Although President Bush called Pyongyang part of an "axis of evil" in January, Washington has wisely decided to explore diplomatic avenues to the extent that the North's unpredictable behavior permits. North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, has sounded reasonable before only to reverse course and embarrass advocates of engagement in Seoul and Washington. The wisest American course for now is to keep open the lines of communication to learn more about Pyongyang's true intentions. 
 Earlier this summer the Bush administration was preparing to resume talks on North Korea's missile program and other issues that had been suspended after Bill Clinton left office. Then a North Korean gunboat opened fire on a South Korean vessel, killing five sailors. Seoul and Washington understandably broke off diplomatic contacts. Two weeks ago, Pyongyang issued a statement of regret over the naval incident. That cleared the way for cabinet-level talks next week between the two Koreas, the first in nearly a year. It also helped bring about a brief but cordial meeting last week between Secretary of State Colin Powell and North Korea's foreign minister. 
 The only consistent theme in North Korean policies over the past several years has been the increasingly desperate effort by top leaders to maintain control in the face of a catastrophically failing economy. Pyongyang's best hope lies in opening its economy to market forces and outside investment and abandoning an unconventional-weapons program that frightens South Korea, Japan and the United States, all of them potential targets. Yet the North's leaders hesitate, fearing that market liberalization would undermine Communist Party control. Rather than abandon unconventional weapons, the North has continued selling missiles and technology to Pakistan and the Middle East and demanding large payoffs from Washington as a condition of cutting off these lucrative exports. 
America should not submit to extortion, but should avail itself of serious and verifiable opportunities to eliminate real threats. That is a difficult path to follow, but the 1994 nuclear agreement that led to yesterday's start of construction is a good example of the benefits that can result. In that accord North Korea abandoned Soviet-era reactor technology that made it relatively easy for nuclear waste to be reprocessed into bomb fuel. Before the new reactors come into operation three years from now, Pyongyang will have to allow all its nuclear plants and laboratories to be monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency and will have to account for the plutonium it produced before 1994. 
The Bush administration showed support for that nuclear agreement by sending a special envoy to yesterday's foundation-laying ceremony. Provided that Pyongyang avoids any new provocations, the next step should be reopening talks to discuss similar solutions to other security issues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (67%); EXTORTION (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) EDITORIALS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



176 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Burst Bubble Memorial Stadium 

 BODY:
The erosion of tradition and continuity in professional sports has gone too far. Not only have players and coaches become restless temps, but now even the names of the venues they play in have become transient. In this turbulent economy, in which yesterday's highest bidder may no longer be around today, the New England Patriots have become the third consecutive Super Bowl winners to be forced to change the name of their stadium. 
 Two years ago, near the end of the dot-com frenzy, the Patriots sold the naming rights to their new stadium to CMGI, an Internet company, for $114 million over 15 years. Back then, unprofitable companies were known to make such brazen gestures. An umbrella for a number of dot-com brands, CMGI was one of those hyped creatures of the bubble whose main product was its stock price. It reached $163 a share in late 2000, but is now worth less than $1. 
 On Monday the Patriots announced that CMGI Field's name would be changed to Gillette Stadium. It is a sad sign of the times that this name should have such a venerable ring to it, as if it were Lambeau or Soldier Field. Gillette, the 110-year-old Boston consumer-product conglomerate, acquired the naming rights for 15 years for an undisclosed amount. CMGI cited "drastic changes" in its business in announcing that it was now off the hook; nowadays $114 million seems like a lot of cash when you're unprofitable. The challenge for stadium crews is to shave off the 2,000 painted or etched "CMGI Field" inscriptions in time for next month's Monday night season opener against the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Befitting Pittsburgh's no-nonsense industrial heritage, the Steelers were ahead of the curve when it came to the emerging "out with the new, in with the old" trend in naming rights. Their year-old stadium is called Heinz Field. Recession-proof ketchup, like razor blades, is here to stay.
Of course that is what the St. Louis Rams, winners of the 2000 Super Bowl, thought of storied Trans World Airlines, which has since been taken over by American while the stadium has been renamed in honor of a local investment firm. Many fans of the following Super Bowl winner, the Baltimore Ravens, were barely familiar with PSINet, another Internet firm, before it went bankrupt and the PSINet Stadium name was retired. 
The Tennessee Titans have spent this off season in court wresting back their stadium naming rights. Adelphia Coliseum has a sort of glamorous, Hellenic ring to it until you realize it's in honor of a bankrupt spinoff of the cable company whose founder and former chief executive was recently arrested and charged with defrauding investors. Then there is that ultimate field of dreams, the Houston Astros' new Enron Field. Making lemonade from its lemon, the Astros resold the rights surrendered by Enron's bankruptcy to Minute Maid, the Coca-Cola subsidiary. Fans should be reassured: Juice sales offer little room for accounting chicanery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); BASEBALL (73%); ARRESTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; EDITORIALS; CORPORATIONS; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



177 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Patient Deaths Tied to Lack Of Nurses 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Calling a shortage of nurses "a prescription for danger," the national organization that accredits hospitals reported today that the lack contributed to nearly a quarter of the unanticipated problems that result in death or injury to hospital patients.
 The shortages have been a perennial problem, and hospitals have taken the position that the lack of staff members does not harm patients. But experts said today's report, by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, added to a growing body of evidence that links the shortage to ill health. 
 "Nursing staffing is low in many institutions, and patients are being hurt by it," said Dr. Jack Needleman, an economist at the Harvard School of Public Health who was not involved in the commission's report. "Now we need to move from arguing over whether that is the case to discussing how we can fix it." 
The commission's finding utilized its "sentinel event" reporting system, a computer database that includes 1,609 reports of patient deaths and injuries since 1996. 
Those reports include detailed explanations from hospitals, and when commission officials analyzed them, they found low levels of nursing staff were cited as a contributing factor in 24 percent of the cases.
"This data was so compelling," said Dr. Dennis S. O'Leary, the commission president. "We knew that some unanticipated deaths and permanent loss of function were related to inadequate numbers of nurses, but 24 percent surprised everybody."
More than 126,000 nursing positions -- about 12 percent of the total -- are vacant today, and the commission warned that the situation might worsen. As a group, nurses are aging -- only 12 percent of registered nurses are younger than 30, the report said -- and many more people are leaving the profession than entering it. 
At the same time, today's hospital patients are sicker than those in previous years, so the demands on nurses are rising, said Linda Aiken, director of the Center for Health Outcomes and Policy Research at the University of Pennsylvania. 
A recent report in Pennsylvania found 50 percent less nursing care available to patients today than in 1980, Ms. Aiken said.
Several factors contribute to the nursing shortage. Hospital mergers, and the ensuing cost-cutting and heavy workloads have prompted many nurses to leave the profession. The American Hospital Association recently called on its members to make recruiting and retaining nurses a priority.
"I don't agree that patients' lives are in danger," said James Bentley, a senior vice president of the hospital association.
Still, Mr. Bentley said, hospitals ought to be concerned about "the number of nurses who feel overstressed, overworked, worried that they're not able to spend enough time with the patient."
The shortage has drawn attention in Washington. Last month, Congress passed the Nurse Reinvestment Act, which authorizes financial aid programs for nursing students; President Bush signed the bill into law last week. Congressional aides estimate that the assistance will cost more than $30 million from 2003 to 2007.
But Dr. O'Leary said the new law did not go far enough. "I sure hope Congress doesn't think it's done with this issue," he said. "We need substantially greater investment."
The commission called for improvements to the nursing education system, and for the federal government, which reimburses hospitals through Medicaid and Medicare, to tie the payments to a hospital's performance in improving nursing care.
It also said hospitals must improve the work environment for nurses, a recommendation that Mary Foley, a past president of the American Nurses Association, applauded, saying: "What I hear from nurses on a regular basis is that they are struggling to do the best that they can. They talk about the long hours of work, particularly mandatory overtime practices."
The report cited surveys showing that nurses were unable to keep up with the demands placed on them. 
In one survey of nurses describing their last shifts, 31 percent said their patients did not receive necessary skin care, 20 percent said patients did not receive oral care, and 28 percent were not able to provide patients and their families with necessary education and instruction.
"Care is literally being left undone," the report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (95%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); ACCREDITATION (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SHORTAGES; NURSING AND NURSES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HOSPITALS 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT COMMISSION ON ACCREDITATION OF HEALTHCARE ORGANIZATIONS (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (59%) JOINT COMMISSION ON ACCREDITATION OF HEALTHCARE ORGANIZATIONS; AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSN 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



178 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Agrees to Loan Of $30 Billion for Brazil 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER with EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Confronted with the prospect of another financial meltdown in Latin America, the International Monetary Fund agreed today to a $30 billion rescue loan for Brazil. At the same time, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was urging Argentina to move quickly to reach a similar accord, saying that the United States will not bail out the government and believes that additional reforms of the Argentine economy are needed.
 The rescue package for Brazil demonstrated an attempt to meld political and economic goals. While it runs counter to the Bush administration's public opposition to international bailouts, Brazil is the largest economy in Latin America and has attracted billions of dollars in investment by American companies. Administration officials argue that Brazilian economic policies have been fundamentally sound, but the country's currency has plunged in value as investors have grown panicky about coming elections. 
 Investors and banks have been badly unnerved by the strength of two left-wing presidential candidates in elections this fall, both of whom have attacked Brazil's current policies that are intended to reduce inflation, balance the budget and expand free trade. 
The $30 billion accord, which covers the next 15 months, comes on top of an existing $15 billion credit line from the I.M.F. to Brazil and permits Brazil's central bank to reduce the minimum level of its reserves by $10 billion.
The size of the package was nearly double what most Brazilian analysts had been predicting and requires the government to make almost no modification of its existing policies. But Brazil would not be able to use 80 percent of that money until 2003 -- after the elections this fall.
The fund also noted that the agreement "could be" presented for approval by its full executive board in early September, but it gave itself room to delay approval if Brazilian officials do not provide enough assurances that policies will remain unchanged.
The developments in Brazil and Argentina underlined the growing alarm in the United States and Europe at the seriousness of the financial crisis that began here last year and has recently spread to Uruguay and other nations in the region. But the marked difference in attitudes also appeared to dash Argentina's hopes that fears of just such a regional "contagion" would make its task easier.
Argentina has been bogged down in unsuccessful talks with the I.M.F. ever since its credit line with the body was suspended late last year. The accord with Brazil, in contrast, was reached in near-record time, with formal discussions having begun less than a month ago, and was accompanied by a ringing endorsement of the Brazilian government's economic program.
"Brazil is on a solid long-term policy trend which strongly deserves the support of the international community," the managing director of the I.M.F., Horst Kohler, said in a statement issued late this afternoon. In a reference to the contentious presidential election that is less than two months away and has generated market nervousness, Mr. Kohler also said that "the fund stands ready to support any government committed to sound policies."
Brazil's agreement leaves only Argentina without financial protection among the three troubled South American countries that Mr. O'Neill has visited this week. On Sunday night, as Mr. O'Neill was arriving in the region, the United States announced that it was making an emergency $1.5 billion bridge loan to Uruguay, reversing a policy that had been in place since the start of the Bush administration.
That immediately generated hopes that Washington might ease its opposition to a rescue package for Argentina and revert to more supportive policies that had been in place under the Clinton administration. But Mr. O'Neill quashed that notion today, saying that "each nation's facts are different" and that the action taken to help Uruguay was an unusual exception.
"We think the lead institution for dealing with international financial issues ought to be the International Monetary Fund," he said at a news conference this morning. American policy, he said later in the day, has been to "work generally quietly behind the scenes" rather than "lecture countries that were having troubles and to have a high-profile role."
While praising Argentina for "working hard to implant policies that will create the basis for sustained growth," Mr. O'Neill also made it clear that he thinks the government here must complete additional reforms. He repeatedly mentioned, for instance, "the importance of a functioning bank system" and a "very crystal clear idea of the practice of the rule of law."
The government in Argentina froze most savings accounts in early December to avert massive capital flight, and the government has been bickering with banks, some of which have threatened to close down operations and leave the country, over how they are to be compensated for billions of dollars in losses. Mr. O'Neill, had lunch today with some of the country's leading bankers, whom he later praised as smart and talented.
Appearing with Mr. O'Neill at a news conference here this morning, the minister of the economy, Roberto Lavagna, in contrast emphasized the steps Argentina had already taken to right its economy. He described the the two men's 90-minute breakfast meeting as one in which they "reanalyzed the characteristics of what we consider to be an economically sustainable plan."
After Mr. O'Neill met with President Eduardo Duhalde on Tuesday night, Argentine government officials stressed the urgency of reaching an accord with the I.M.F. as soon as possible. Foreign reserves here are now less than $9 billion, compared with $13 billion at the start of the year, and Argentina must repay nearly $3 billion more to international lenders by the end of the year, including a large payment next month.
Mr. O'Neill, however, seemed less concerned with the prospect of Argentina defaulting to international lending institutions, which would make the country an economic pariah. "There's plenty of time to work on this issue," he said, adding that Mr. Lavagna had told him Argentina would submit a formal proposal to the I.M.F. "in a week or so."
Between his meetings with government officials and businessmen, Mr. O'Neill visited a day care center in a Buenos Aires suburb in which more than half of the 500,000 inhabitants are now living below the poverty line. As his motorcade sped through the streets, onlookers rubbed their fingers together to indicate money and one man shouted "where's the cash, where's the cash?"
Workers at the center, built with a grant from the World Bank, said that most of the parents of the 110 children, ages 2 to 5, enrolled in the program were unemployed. The breakfast and lunch -- which today consisted of chicken and rice with milk and flan for dessert -- is the only nourishment many of the children receive, the workers said.
"We need that money so that the economy can grow and people can go back to work," Nilda Ortega, a cook and mother of eight, said in reference to the I.M.F. negotiations. "People here really want to work, but with our country in the situation it is in, there is nothing for them."
Originally, Mr. O'Neill's itinerary also called for him to tour a Ford auto plant in the Buenos Aires suburbs. But that visit was canceled, according to people close to labor unions here, because workers threatened to walk off the job in protest if Mr. O'Neill appeared.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The United States Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, right, and Argentina's minister of the economy, Roberto Lavagna, arrived for a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); A Buenos Aires protester slams a placard reading "O'Neill and the I.M.F. Out" against a car carrying Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); APPROVALS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%) FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (58%) ROHTER, LARRY; ANDREWS, EDMUND L; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%) BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (79%); URUGUAY (79%) BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



179 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Former Chief of ImClone Indicted in Sale of Shares
Samuel D. Waksal, the former chief executive of ImClone Systems, was indicted on charges of insider trading, bank fraud, forging a signature and destroying records to obstruct a federal investigation. A lawyer for Dr. Waksal said that "he is presumed to be innocent, and he will respond to those charges as required."
 The indictment is the latest chapter in one of the white-collar crime cases that are embroiling the business world, with former executives of Tyco International, Adelphia and WorldCom also facing charges. Page A1. 

Behind the Scenes at WorldCom
Bernard J. Ebbers, the chief executive of WorldCom, speaking in Washington in 2000, described how he had transformed an obscure long-distance phone company into a fast growing corporation. But even as he boasted of WorldCom's successes, behind the scenes the company was already in shambles. A1.

Talks Frustrate News Corporation
The News Corporation has become increasingly frustrated at the pace of its negotiations to acquire an Italian pay-television provider from Vivendi Universal and is considering walking away from the deal. The company, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, has been negotiating with Vivendi since early June. C7.

Questions About Merrill-Enron Deal
Trying to meet a year-end profit goal, Enron struck a sham energy deal with Merrill Lynch that let Enron book a $60 million profit in 1999, former Enron executives said. By allowing Enron to meet its profit goals, the transaction unleashed millions of dollars in bonuses and stock to executives. Merrill Lynch said there was nothing improper about the deal. A1.

Cheney Defends Bush on Economy
Vice President Dick Cheney, in a rare public appearance, defended the administration's stewardship of the faltering economy and vowed to punish corporate misconduct. A21.

CNBC Executive Leaving Network
Bruno Cohen, the CNBC executive vice president for business news and an important steward of the network's coverage of the stock market in the late 1990's, has resigned. C4. .

G.E. to Pay $1 Million Settlement
The Consumer Product Safety Commission plans to announce a $1 million settlement with General Electric for what the agency said was the company's failure to report defects involving more than three million dishwashers. C3.

Late Rally Pushes Market Higher
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 182.06 points, to 8,456.15. The Nasdaq rose 21.35 points, to 1,280.90, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index advanced 17.20 points, to 876.77. C7.

Germany's Economy Falters
As Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, left, wages an uphill battle for re-election, new economic numbers show that Germany's economy is faltering. Unemployment climbed to its highest level in three years in July, while factory orders fell an unexpectedly steep 3.2 percent in June. In addition, Deutsche Bank has cut its forecast for growth in 2002 to 0.5 percent, from 1.2 percent. World Business, Section W.

Depicting Bowling as Family Fun
AMF Bowling is spending $13.5 million on a tongue-in-cheek ad campaign that depicts bowling as a family break from stressful schedules. Advertising. C4.

Revisiting an Economic Issue
With little growth and paltry employment gains making the prospects of a double-dip recession a possibility, it is time to revive an old issue: Just how inherently stable are economies? Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,456.15 up 182.06Nasdaq composite -- 1,280.90 up 21.3510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.39% up 0.06The euro -- $0.9744 up 0.0093The dollar -- 120.17 yen down 0.80 Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices from January to June. Producer PricesJuly figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.1% Graph tracks the daily closing price of News Corp. A.D.R.'s shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); FACTORY ORDERS (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); PRODUCT SAFETY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VIVENDI (82%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); DICK CHENEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



180 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
When Volatile Is the Word, Traders Scramble for Footing

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
Todd Nagel, who trades stocks full time in downtown San Francisco, dismissed Wall Street's biggest event on Tuesday. He was so unconcerned about the news -- the earnings report from Cisco Systems, an ostensible market bellwether -- that shortly after the New York markets had closed, he turned off his computer and headed home for the day.
 After all, Mr. Nagel had already got what he wanted out of the market that day: Volatility. Piles of it. 
 "It creates opportunity. You want to see order flow -- lots of buyers and sellers coming in," said Mr. Nagel, 38, who trades for his own account in a Bright Trading office. As for Cisco, he said: "I really wouldn't pay any attention." 
Along with corporate scandals and painful losses, the summer on Wall Street has been one of unusual volatility. A key measure of market volatility surged in late July to its highest level since the 1987 crash and has been sustained for a period not recorded since after the Sept. 11 attacks and the collapse of Long-Term Capital in 1998. To some, the extraordinary volatility is an indicator that the market will soon turn. 
Across the world, traders are trying to find their place and a rhythm in what professionals are referring to as a "trader's market."
Because of the uncertain outlook, long-term investors have been wary of adding to their stock holdings. But Mr. Nagel and professional day traders like him, whose number has been depleted by the collapse of the bull market, prey on the wild swings, trying to capture a dime here or a nickel there on trades of 100 shares to several hundred thousand shares. Traders of stocks at big firms -- like Merrill Lynch or Charles Schwab -- say they can also take advantage of the mercurial movements though they do not find volatility inherently good.
The action does not play as well among smaller investors who follow the market from a home office and who still trade -- though not as feverishly as in the dot-com boom. These people wait for the news on the economy, Cisco and other companies that may indicate a change in the market's momentum, looking for signs of stability and direction. Where will the market go? Will it become easier to make a buck? 
Interviews this week with a variety of traders, from people who manage their own retirement money to full-time traders to big-time money managers, show how Cisco's news was anticipated and processed and at times even disregarded.
Though Cisco's earnings report exceeded expectations and its stock rose 14 percent over the last two days, its chief executive said he remained concerned about business at the service providers in the telecommunications industry. When trading resumed yesterday, phone stocks had the biggest decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Over all, stock prices rose.
By phone from Israel, Phil Bak described how he arrived at the Jerusalem Straight Line Securities day trading office on Tuesday at 3:30 p.m., an hour before the market opened in New York. Like Mr. Nagel, Mr. Bak uses sophisticated software in hopes of making pennies of profit on frequent trades. On Tuesday, punctuated by cheese pizza and an afternoon prayer break with his fellow Orthodox Jews, he traded well, turning quick hits on trades involving Microsoft and Electronic Arts, a video game company. Mr. Bak said he was up $630 (excluding commissions of a penny a share).
Unlike Mr. Nagel, though, he was eager to see Cisco's results, hoping to get a sense of the market's direction from the giant maker of Internet networking equipment. "There can be a chain reaction if Cisco has good earnings," he said. "It can move the futures, which will move the stocks, and turn the whole direction of the market around." Futures contracts on the major indexes are traded ahead of the market opening, often indicating the sentiment of institutional investors, and sometimes give the direction of the first minutes of trading.
Mr. Nagle and Mr. Bak had different views on the Cisco news because they trade stocks using different strategies. Mr. Bak is looking for and trying to capitalize on up and down trends and shifts in momentum. Mr. Nagle tries to capitalize on excessive spreads between bid and ask price on the stocks he tracks, relying far less on the market's overall direction.
Both men favor the volatility, they say, because it helps them make more money when they accurately assess the situation. Mr. Bak, 24, who has been trading since September, says he struggled initially. The "last few months have kind of turned things around, and I've been profitable," he said. "The volatility is great."
Small fry and part-time investors, though, find not just the bear market disconcerting but also the volatility that has accompanied it of late.
Thomas J. Petrarca, 45, who lives in Woodbury, Conn., says he made 50 to 100 trades a week in the dot-com boom. This market has changed him. Now he makes perhaps 20 trades a week, sometimes fewer, and he and his business partner spend more time making investments in, and helping run, start-up companies. He has a 4-inch-thick black binder of the trades he placed in 2000; this year's binder is not yet an inch thick.
"The market is so uncertain and unpredictable," Mr. Petrarca said. On Tuesday, amid a volatile stock market relished by professional traders, Mr. Petrarca did not place a single trade. He said he did not expect the Cisco news to be particularly good, or to start a lasting rally.
While small investors back away and day traders try to exploit volatility, professionals zero in on their stocks. A mutual fund analyst who follows Cisco slavishly for a big firm was eager on Tuesday to see if his call on Cisco had been right and what it would portend for a broader group of stocks. The analyst, Giri Devulapally, specializes in Cisco for T. Rowe Price Associates, the mutual fund company based in Baltimore. For months, he has analyzed Cisco -- and its suppliers and customers -- hoping to give his portfolio managers an edge.
Like an expectant father, he waited on Tuesday for the end-of-the-day news. After a lunch in New York with the chief executive of Nokia, he returned to his office to join a conference call with Cisco executives. The Cisco report was generally good; the company beat the consensus earnings estimates by 2 cents a share.
Mr. Devulapally scrambled to put together a report for his portfolio managers and to give them guidance on whether to buy or sell the stock -- decisions he said he could not disclose as a matter of company policy.
Generally speaking, Mr. Devulapally said, company-specific scrutiny can give major brokerage firms an advantage in a volatile market. When a market swings, their research shows whether a particular stock is far out of line with its relative strength in the marketplace.
To an extent, this is a matter of resources, he said. Individuals work single-handedly to understand numerous companies and then embark on trading strategies, while the big firms divide these tasks among specialists. This should give them an advantage, at least in the short term, though major gaffes by analysts in and after the dot-com boom showed that it does not always work.
"I try not to think of volatility as a good thing or a bad thing, it's just a fact of life," Mr. Devulapally said. "Volatility can drive a price down more than we think it deserves, and we may add incrementally to that position. Or it can drive a price up so that we get the performance we thought we'd deserve in two or three years, and we can reduce our position."
Cisco is important, he said, because it buys a lot of chips, provides insight into the health of telecommunications providers and offers a glimpse of a broad swath of the economy. "They provide an insight into corporate spending," he said.
When the market opened yesterday, he said his expectations that Cisco would move technology stocks in general were validated. The semiconductor index rose initially and then fell before rising again.
"Cisco has an impact on the market, whether it is positive or negative," Mr. Devulapally said. "And today it was both."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Lemon, above, a day trader at Bright Trading in San Francisco. Professional day traders generally love stock market volatility. Traders of stocks at big firms say they can take advantage of it. Smaller investors, though, generally have a different perspective. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times)(pg. C1); To Todd Nagel, a professional day trader, volatility is good. "It creates opportunity," he said. "You want to see order flow -- lots of buyers and sellers coming in." (Dan Krauss for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Good News for Day Traders"The VIX volatility index, a market estimate of future volatility, has spiked up in the last month, approaching levels not recorded since last September. The VIX is compiled by the Chicago Board Options Exchange based on call and put options. Graph tracks daily closings from 1999 through 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); INTERVIEWS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); SCANDALS (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



181 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Starts Bragging About Its Tourist Attractions 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: JONES BEACH, N.Y., Aug. 7 

 BODY:
The economic slump and fears of terrorism have crippled tourism at many destinations, but not on Long Island. Now local officials are starting local and national campaigns to expand the island's healthy tourist trade.
 The plans were unveiled today at a news conference at the sprawling, white-sand beach here, which already draws more visitors than Niagara Falls. 
 "Be a tourist in your own backyard" is the slogan of local radio commercials that will start next week. They feature a friendly debate between county executives -- Robert J. Gaffney of Suffolk and Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau -- over which county has the best attractions.
The Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau and Sports Commission will also publicize Long Island nationally. The bureau helped create the Long Island Fun Card for discounts at several attractions. It is available free at www.funonli.com. The Long Island Rail Road is offering special day trips, with special fares, to beaches, wineries and other spots.
"The marketplace changed dramatically after 9/11," said the bureau's president, Michael Hollander. "What that left is a hole for our people to fill."
Long Island typically draws 1.1 million tourists a year and is running about 1 percent ahead of that, he said. Hotel occupancy is about 74 percent, down from 77 percent last year. 
Business would have been far worse if not for several special events. The United States Open in Bethpage drew nearly 300,000 spectators, generated nearly 32,000 nights of paid lodging and infused $12 million into the local economy in June. Also in June, the Belmont Stakes with a Triple Crown contender was a draw. In May there was the opening of the Cradle of Aviation Museum in East Garden City.
"We're not dying off the vine like so many destinations," Mr. Holland said. Hits on the Long Island tourism Web site jumped to 1.5 million a month this year from 860,000 a month last year, he said. 
With an ocean, bays, the Long Island Sound, rivers and lakes, water sports are popular. They include swimming, boating, fishing and even seal watching. Tourist sites include the mansions and gardens of the Gold Coast, on the North Shore; Theodore Roosevelt's home, Sagamore Hill; the Nassau Coliseum for concerts and Islanders hockey games; and the lighthouses at Montauk and Fire Island.
For people in the New York region, Long Island offers convenience without the costs of airfare and overnight stays. For out-of-towners, it offers an alternative to New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Long Island's two county executives, Robert J. Gaffney of Suffolk, left, and Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau, at a news conference yesterday introducing local and national campaigns to expand on tourist trade. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (92%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); WATER SPORTS (74%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); AIR FARES (73%); LAKES (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); WINERIES (53%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



182 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Deal on Israeli Withdrawal Collapses After Early Hope 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Thursday, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
As Israeli military forces pressed their offensive on Wednesday, killing at least six Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Yasir Arafat's Palestinian Authority provisionally accepted Israel's conditions for a withdrawal from parts of the occupied territories. 
 But early today, after a joint meeting of security officials, Palestinian officials accused the Israelis of changing the offer, and any agreement appeared to have already foundered. 
 The basic terms of the Israeli offer -- a withdrawal, in this case first from Gaza and then other areas occupied by the army, only after the Palestinians ensure tranquillity -- have been repeatedly agreed on and then ignored in the past year.
The diplomatic tumult occurred as Mr. Arafat dispatched three top aides for talks in Washington with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and other administration officials. 
The exchange was rare in that it involved high-level, bilateral talks, but it was familiar in that it swiftly appeared to implode in recriminations. The gestures toward a deal came as Israelis, fearful of attack, seemed increasingly uncertain how to protect themselves, and as Palestinians seemed increasingly despairing of freedom from Israeli military control and economic blockade. 
With a tearful ceremony in Jerusalem, faculty members and students of Hebrew University memorialized the deaths a week ago of seven people, including five Americans, in a terrorist bombing.
Today a fuel truck exploded near Jerusalem after a small bomb hidden beneath it detonated, the police said. The driver had minor injuries.
With tensions between Israel's Jewish and Arab citizens already running high, the Israeli police today arrested two Israeli Arab nursing students on suspicion of knowing about an impending suicide bombing and failing to stop it. The two women were described as stepping off a bus in northern Israel on Sunday and climbing into a taxi after the bomber warned one of them that "something horrible" was about to happen.
The bomber then killed himself and nine other people. Both women were released, and only the one directly warned by the bomber is likely to be charged, said Superintendent Gil Kleiman, a police spokesman.
The police released statistics today demonstrating that Israel's predicament is continuing to worsen as the conflict grinds on. In the first six months of this year, 238 Israelis died in Palestinian attacks, compared with 68 in the corresponding period a year ago, the police said. Those statistics do not include soldiers.
Many more Palestinians died in the same period, as Israel conducted airstrikes and ground offensives in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
In one telling statistic, the police reported that in all of 1999, before the current conflict, 12 bombs were detonated or discovered in Israel. From Jan. 1 though July 18 this year, that number was 465.
The terms of the Israeli deal were proposed this week in a meeting with Palestinian officials by Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer. He offered the Gaza Strip as a test case, saying that if Palestinian security forces demonstrated there that they would ensure calm, Israeli forces would withdraw from recently seized land in Gaza. Reports of the precise proposal differed, but Palestinians said that Mr. Ben-Eliezer indicated that the same deal applied to Bethlehem, in the West Bank. 
Nabil Shaath, a Palestinian minister, said on Wednesday that the Palestinians had given "preliminary approval" for the plan, pending full clarification of the offer in the late-night meeting Wednesday. 
Raanan Gissin, a spokesman for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, said the Palestinian announcement appeared to have been timed to gain attention in Washington as Mr. Arafat's delegation travels there. 
Mr. Gissin said the deal would help Israelis but was also "for the benefit of the Palestinian people, to alleviate the immediate, very difficult, severe economic conditions." During the conflict, as Israel has shut off Gaza, unemployment has soared. A study financed by the United States government and released this week found high rates of malnutrition among Palestinian children there.
But after a follow-up meeting of the two sides, the deal, which some Palestinian leaders had called a sellout, appeared to be off. Afterward, Nabil Aburdeineh, a close aide to Mr. Arafat, told The Associated Press that Israel had imposed new conditions that were "impossible to accept or even to implement." Declaring the meeting a failure, he said that Israel had not mentioned withdrawing from Bethlehem, just Gaza.
Israeli forces are now operating freely in what by treaty is Palestinian-controlled territory in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. After back-to-back suicide bombings in Jerusalem in June, Israel took military control of seven of the eight major Palestinian cities, including Bethlehem, imposing 24-hour curfews that have all but emptied streets and brought industry to a halt.
"The city is still paralyzed," said Hanna Nasser, Bethlehem's mayor. He said Israel was lifting the curfew for three or four hours at a stretch -- not long or predictably enough for businesses to function. "Bethlehem, from the commercial point of view, is dying," he said. "From the social point of view, it is dying."
The Israeli Army said it was working to ease restrictions here and in Hebron, but there was scant evidence of that here today.
This morning in Bethlehem, Israeli forces arrested Yehiyeh Daamseh, a local leader of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades. They also demolished his rented house.
In Tulkarm, another West Bank city, Israeli forces surrounded the hideout of another local Aksa Brigades leader, Ziad Daas, wanted for lethal shooting attacks. A gunfight broke out, and Mr. Daas and three other Palestinians were killed.
Israeli forces also tracked down and killed a wanted man in the Gaza Strip. In the town of Khan Yunis, Hussam Hamdan, 26, a member of the militant Islamic group Hamas, was shot and killed, evidently by an Israeli sniper. Israeli officials said Mr. Hamdan had overseen the planting of bombs in Gaza and was planning further attacks. Hamas supporters promised to retaliate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Relatives of Levina Shapira, killed in the Hebrew University bombing, at a memorial service yesterday. From left, her niece, sister-in-law and son. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); STATISTICS (65%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; ARAFAT, YASIR; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



183 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Family of 9/11 Victim Accepts $1.04 Million In U.S. Compensation 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
The family of a young financial services employee from New York City who died in the terror attacks on Sept. 11 has become the first to acknowledge accepting an award from the federal Victim Compensation Fund, a key moment for a program that is being closely scrutinized by thousands of relatives of victims and American taxpayers.
 The government calculated that the family of the young man, a recent college graduate in his 20's who made almost $60,000 a year, deserved $1.19 million in gross compensation for his unfulfilled economic potential and for the family's pain and suffering. After a reduction of $150,000 for benefits like life insurance and workers' compensation, the final figure of $1.04 million was "on the upper end" of the family's expectations, according to their lawyer, Roberta G. Gordon. 
 The family members said the notice of the award came with an unexpected and detailed legal checklist, which will go to all families. They must decide whether they want the money in a lump sum, an annuity or another form. They must ensure that specific aspects of the award meet local laws governing payments like wrongful death awards. Everything, ultimately, is still subject to the discretion of Kenneth R. Feinberg, the special master overseeing the multibillion-dollar fund established by Congress in the days after Sept. 11. 
The family, who provided a copy of the package to The New York Times on condition of anonymity, is one of roughly two dozen who have received the fund's first award letters in the last couple of weeks. The letters yield the first clear insight into what others may expect, both in money and the degree of work they must do to secure and distribute the award. More than 3,000 people were killed or injured in the attacks. 
Those in this first batch would seem to be the simplest cases: families who were eager to file early and who readily accepted Mr. Feinberg's economic assumptions about the earning power of their relative, often because of a desire for expediency or because of financial need. None of them are among the roughly two dozen test cases that lawyers are following for a sign of the limits of the fund and a sense of Mr. Feinberg's notion of fairness. Those cases appear to be more complex. 
If the experience of this first group to receive letters is any indication, families appear destined to learn that the process does not end once their award has been determined. More work must be done, and more family matters may need to be resolved, before the government is satisfied that it can fairly disburse such large chunks of taxpayer dollars.
In addition, even the simple receipt of the formal notification -- how one son's lost work and life was translated into a dollar amount -- can pack one more emotional wallop.
"She was very emotional over the loss of her son," said Ms. Gordon, a lawyer with Bryan Cave L.L.P. in Manhattan, who has worked without pay on several compensation cases. "She said to me, 'If only I could give it all back just to have him back.' "
To be eligible for the fund's payments, which are expected to average $1.5 million, families must agree not to sue. But only 650 or so families have filed even partial applications to date, a rate that is slower than expected. The main causes of the slow start are the unexpectedly complex application process and the tendency of many families, still hesitant or emotionally scarred, to wait for others to go first.
Indeed, many families are particularly keen on determining how Mr. Feinberg will respond to the test cases, many of which were being filed by Trial Lawyers Care, a consortium of 1,200 lawyers around the country who are providing free legal advice. Those decisions -- still weeks away, perhaps -- have been "a little more delayed than originally anticipated," said Larry S. Stewart, president of Trial Lawyers Care.
In an interview, Mr. Feinberg declined to comment on specific claims, saying only that "any awards sent to the families are confidential." He did say, though, that he would post the first awards on the fund's Web site within two weeks and that the notices would include the dollar amounts and an explanation of the calculations but not names and other identifying details.
If the families accept their awards, then Mr. Feinberg's office is to mail the checks within 20 days. If not, then the families are entitled to a hearing with fund officials to argue their case one last time.
For Ms. Gordon's clients, news of the award came by mail, in a standard business envelope, from the Department of Justice. Because they felt that Mr. Feinberg was fair, even sympathetic, they decided to check off the box on a one-page reply form which states: "I wish to accept the presumed compensation determination as the final determination."
A two-page letter from Mr. Feinberg breaks down the net and gross awards in the first paragraph, as well as the sum of all "collateral offsets" like life insurance and other benefits. The letter invites families to make any revisions to a preliminary plan, previously submitted with the original application, to distribute the compensation money.
The package also includes a one-page document packed with legal reminders. For instance, it says the award has two portions, one for noneconomic loss and the other for economic loss. If there is no will (and there were none for three-quarters of the victims, according to Mr. Feinberg), then the noneconomic loss portion of the award should be governed by the victim's state laws on intestate deaths. The economic-loss portion is governed by state wrongful-death statutes.
The case of Ms. Gordon's clients was relatively straightforward. The young man, who grew up in New York, was not married and did not have children, leaving his parents as his next of kin. The only wrinkle in the case is that the parents would like to give some money to several adult relatives because they feel that is what their son would have wanted.
"This compensation money is money we never would have had," the mother said in an interview. "His big thing was, by the time he worked 10 years, he would make $1 million. So this is kind of his way of giving something back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberta G. Gordon, the lawyer handling the family's application, said the $1.04 million was "on the upper end" of the family's expectations. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE FUNDS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DAMAGES (77%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: GORDON, ROBERTA G; CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



184 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Telecommunications:RCN Reports Bigger Loss Than Expected 

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 The RCN Corporation, the cable television, phone and Internet provider backed by Paul G. Allen, said it would have a larger second-quarter loss than it had expected because of "the severe slowdown in the telecommunications industry and the economy, and the limited available capital" within the sector. The company said it had curtailed growth plans and had nearly $900 million in asset impairment and other costs. 
RCN, of Princeton, N.J., reported a net loss of $1.09 billion, or $10.46 a share, compared with a loss of $676.9 million, or $7.38 a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 15 percent, to $128 million from $111 million. David C. McCourt, RCN's chief executive, said that the company added customers to its network during the quarter and that "we continue to fine-tune our marketing and service delivery strategy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); EXECUTIVES (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: RCN CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: RCN CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



185 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: EXPLOSIONS RATTLE COLOMBIAN CAPITAL DURING INAUGURAL 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
At least 14 people were killed and 40 wounded today by mortar shells in the center of this capital as Alvaro Uribe Velez was sworn in as president. He was elected on a pledge to crack down on Colombia's leftist guerrillas. 
 Two shells landed near the presidential palace, which is next to the Congress where Mr. Uribe's inauguration was held, police officials and witnesses said. One policeman, his head bleeding, staggered away as security personnel raced to secure the parking area of the palace. 
 No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attacks, but the police said they suspected urban commandos of the country's largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. Mr. Uribe has promised to defeat the rebels, who have been waging war on the government for 38 years, and they have mounted more attacks in recent days as his inauguration approached. 
Mr. Uribe and others in the congressional chambers heard the blasts, witnesses said, but were unaware that they stemmed from an attack. 
Two of the shells, which appeared to be homemade, landed in a slum, killing at least 11 people, many of whom were sleeping in a crude shelter, according to Bogota's mayor, Antanas Mockus, and several witnesses. The police said another shell landed on a house in a working-class neighborhood, killing three girls. 
Perhaps as many as five of the shells were fired from a home located about a mile from the presidential palace, said a police intelligence official who briefed reporters. The police raided the residence and found 40 unused rockets, he said. 
"I saw people running all over the place, yelling and screaming," said Carlos Castro, 25, one of the thousands of homeless people in the slum, called El Cartucho. "Some people had lost legs. Others were headless. Everything was destroyed." 
Antonio Navarro Wolff, a senator who was in the congressional chamber for the inaugural, said: "We thought it was cannon shots that were part of the ceremony. It was an hour later when we understood that it was an attack and there were many dead and wounded." 
The ceremony was not interrupted, and Mr. Uribe made no mention of the attacks in his 20-minute nationally televised speech that began about half an hour after the first shells were fired. 
"This conflict either ends or it has the potential to destabilize the region," Mr. Uribe said in his address. 
Mr. Uribe, 50, a former state governor who was educated at Harvard and Oxford, was swept into office on May 26 after campaigning as a no-nonsense candidate who would double the size of the armed forces to take control of territory lost to the FARC, as the rebel group is known.
Mr. Uribe is expected to forge a closer relationship with the United States. Last Friday, President Bush signed legislation that expands American military assistance so Colombia can better combat the rebel movement, which is financed in part by profits from the narcotics trade. 
The FARC nearly succeeded in assassinating Mr. Uribe with a bomb during the campaign. In recent weeks, the rebels have threatened hundreds of town mayors, trying to force them to abandon their posts, and they set off bombs in urban areas, apparently aimed at sowing terror.
But today, shortly after 3 p.m., with much of the country watching the inauguration on television, the mortar shells were set off in the area of the Congress. Aside from Colombian lawmakers, foreign dignitaries were in attendance, including a delegation from the United States that included Robert B. Zoellick, the trade representative, Ambassador Anne Patterson and John Walters, the White House antidrug chief.
The rebels have often used homemade mortar shells or other projectiles fired from empty natural gas cylinders. The missiles are notoriously inaccurate, often striking homes or other buildings housing civilians. In May, 119 people were killed in a church in northern Colombia when a missile fired by the FARC in the midst of a battle struck the roof of the building.
Today's attacks struck one of Bogota's most misery-ridden neighborhoods, a slum of muddy streets and battered homes that house drug addicts and criminals. El Cartucho is a neighborhood so dangerous that the police rarely enter.
The city has recently started to raze many of its condemned buildings, with the goal of creating a large park and moving many of the slum's residences into drug treatment centers.
Though the swearing-in and other events continued as planned, the police and soldiers closed off streets throughout much of the center of the city. Air force jets streaked overhead, and helicopters hovered above the neighborhoods that were hit.
Mr. Uribe, whose father was killed by guerrillas in 1983, had abandoned plans for a festive outdoor ceremony because of concerns that the guerrillas might try to assassinate him. Commercial air traffic was canceled, with only an American surveillance plane and Colombian military aircraft allowed in the skies above the capital.
"We are offering democracy, so that arms can be replaced by argument," Mr. Uribe said in his speech. But he also said, "The world must understand that this conflict needs unconventional, transparent and imaginative solutions."
Today, after he was inaugurated, Mr. Uribe, as expected, presented a referendum proposal to Congress that would reduce the legislative body to 150 lawmakers from 268.
One of the shells landed on a shack said to be used by drug users, several of whom were smoking a potent byproduct of cocaine called bazuco when the small, one-story building exploded. 
"You heard a shrieking sound, whoosh and then bam," said Henry Baron, a young man who said he was sleeping on the floor when a corner of the building caved in. "The impact was huge and then the people just started to run."
Puddles of blood covered the floor, as several homeless people milled around inside what was left of the building after the authorities had cleared away the bodies. 
"It is terrible," said a vendor, Estela Sanchez, 26, who was nearby when the mortar struck. "There are children who go there, too. It is a place where people go for a little bread and drink and try to get some sleep."
Mr. Uribe, who will serve a single, four-year term as prescribed by Colombian law, differs sharply from the departing president, Andres Pastrana. Mr. Pastrana, a former television anchorman and the son of a former president, won office in 1998 pledging to bring peace to Colombia through negotiations with two rebel groups. 
But his decision to grant the FARC a vast demilitarized zone while the talks were under way backfired as the rebels used the safe haven to build up their forces and hide kidnap victims. The peace process collapsed earlier this year, and the economy is in its worst state in decades.
The Bush administration supports Mr. Uribe's goals of weakening the rebels while cutting Colombia's export of cocaine.
"We look forward to working with him on these shared goals," said a State Department official.
On Friday, Mr. Bush signed a $29 billion antiterrorism package that contains a provision allowing all American military aid Colombia has received up to this year to be used for counterguerrilla operations. Under previous guidelines, American-supplied helicopters, intelligence and three Colombian battalions trained by the United States Special Forces could only be used in counterdrug operations.
"It will give us more mobility, much more capacity, much more firepower," Francisco Santos, Mr. Uribe's vice president, said by telephone this morning. "This means a lot. It helps to change the military balance, and it helps to contain the violent people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Soldiers and relief workers in El Cartucho, a slum where most of the deaths occurred. At least one mortar shell landed near the presidential palace and the building where Alvaro Uribe Velez's inauguration was held. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); The presidential palace in Bogota, Colombia, was damaged yesterday after shells, apparently fired by rebels, landed nearby. Later, President Alvaro Uribe Velez greeted military officers. (Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); EYEWITNESSES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); WITNESSES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (83%) REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) FORERO, JUAN; URIBE VELEZ, ALVARO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (95%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) COLOMBIA; BOGOTA (COLOMBIA)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



186 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Germans Get More Jolts 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
As Chancellor Gerhard Schroder wages an uphill battle for re-election, new economic numbers released today show that Germany's economy, the largest in Europe, is faltering.
 Unemployment climbed to its highest level in three years in July -- with more than four million Germans out of work -- while factory orders fell an unexpectedly steep 3.2 percent in June. 
 The rise in unemployment was expected, but the weakness in orders surprised economists. Several said Germany's economy, which had been mending slowly from a recession, was in danger of stalling again. The recent strengthening of the euro has started to cut into Germany's exports, while at home, the daily reports of layoffs are causing always-cautious Germans to stop spending. 
"People are very, very afraid of losing their jobs," said Stefan Bielemeier, an economist with Deutsche Bank. "That is hurting consumption."
Deutsche Bank has cut its forecast for Germany's economic growth in 2002 to 0.5 percent, from 1.2 percent. Mr. Bielemeier said a slowdown in the United States economy could bring Germany to a halt. 
"German companies are very worried about developments in the U.S.," he said.
In recent weeks, leading companies like Siemens, Allianz and Commerzbank have announced layoffs, many numbering in the thousands. The total number of unemployed people rose 8,000 in July, to 4.1 million, according to the Federal Labor Office in Berlin.
That is an acute political headache for Mr. Schroder, who declared during his campaign in 1998 that if he did not cut the number of jobless people to 3.5 million, he did not deserve to be re-elected.
Today, Mr. Schroder seemed chastened. "The numbers are not good," he said. "One cannot deny that."
The chancellor has nevertheless kicked off a spirited re-election bid, focusing more on Germany's role in world affairs than on economic matters. In a speech and newspaper column this week, he has issued progressively stronger warnings against an American-led attack on Iraq.
Some political analysts said Mr. Schroder was trying to change the subject -- a tactic they predicted would not work.
"The economy will be the decisive factor in this election," said Reinhard Schlinkert, the chairman of Dimap, a polling firm. "The party that does the best job of protecting it will win on Sept. 22."
Mr. Schlinkert said voters were not likely to forgive Mr. Schroder for falling short on his jobs pledge. Unhappiness over Germany's stubbornly high unemployment was one of the issues that Mr. Schroder, a Social Democrat, used to push Helmut Kohl out of power four years ago.
Today, the number of jobless people is virtually the same as it was on the eve of Mr. Kohl's defeat. The president of the labor office, Florian Gerster, said the number was unlikely to come down soon.
"It's not just the numbers," Mr. Schlinkert said. "If you ask people who is more competent in solving the problem, in securing the German economy, it is always Stoiber and the opposition."
He was referring to Edmund Stoiber, the conservative premier of Bavaria, whose Christian Democratic coalition is leading Mr. Schroder's Social Democratic coalition in many polls by five to seven percentage points.
Mr. Stoiber has presented himself as a steadier economic hand than Mr. Schroder, largely on the strength of Bavaria's economy. It has an unemployment rate of 5.7 percent, compared with the national rate of 9.9 percent.
Part of Bavaria's success has come from Mr. Stoiber's successful campaign to attract technology companies to Munich, the state capital. Newspaper columnists have taken to describing Mr. Stoiber's high-tech ambitions and traditional social agenda as "laptops and lederhosen."
Mr. Stoiber said today that the unemployment figures were a "disastrous balance sheet" on the government.
With only six weeks left before the election, Mr. Schroder is pinning his hopes on a commission, chaired by a former Volkswagen executive, Peter Hartz, which is scheduled to release a report next week with far-reaching proposals on reforming the German labor market.
Early reports suggested that the Hartz Commission would recommend creating a vast government job investment program. It is also reported to be considering ways to cut back Germany's generous unemployment benefits, which experts say contribute to the chronic joblessness.
Mr. Schroder also presented himself as a business-friendly politician -- a new kind of Social Democrat -- during his first run for the chancellor's job. As governor of Lower Saxony, he served on the board of Volkswagen (Lower Saxony is a major shareholder in the company).
But Mr. Schroder's relations with business have been troubled. He pushed a failed bailout of Philipp Holtzmann, a construction company that filed for bankruptcy in March. And he led a messy, public campaign to remove the embattled chief executive of Deutsche Telekom, Ron Sommer.
After defending Mr. Sommer against the company's angry shareholders, Mr. Schroder abruptly withdrew his support and maneuvered to replace him. The government had not lined up a replacement, and it was embarrassed when a who's who of executives turned down the job.
In trying to mollify Deutsche Telekom's shareholders, analysts said, Mr. Schroder aroused fears of government meddling in business.
"Two-thirds of the people in our poll said the state administration should stay out of business," Mr. Schlinkert said.
Despite today's bleak statistics, few economists think that Germany is at risk of tumbling back into a recession. They note, however, that the German government has little control over external forces -- notably the United States -- that could nudge its economy one way or the other.
That is more bad news for Mr. Schroder.
"The question is, who has the will and the power to solve the problem?" said Hans-Jurgen Hoffmann, an analyst at Psephos, a polling and market research firm in Bonn. 'The voters might say, 'Schroder has the will, but he doesn't have the power, to solve the problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerhard Schroder hopes his re-election campaign will gain momentum next week when a panel makes proposals on labor reform. Yesterday, he measured the force of his punch at Berlin's Olympic training site. (Associated Press) Chart: "In Danger of Stalling"New data on unemployment and factory orders show that the German economy, which has been recovering from a recession, may now be stumbling. Graph tracks number of unemployed workers, measured in millions, from March to July. MONTHLY CHANGE IN INDUSTRIAL ORDERS Manufacturing sectorPERCENT CHANGE IN JUNE: -3.2% Basic and intermediate goodsPERCENT CHANGE IN JUNE: -1.4 Capital goodsPERCENT CHANGE IN JUNE: -5.3 Consumer goodsPERCENT CHANGE IN JUNE: +0.1 (Source: Deutsche Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); DISMISSALS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); COMMERZBANK AG (55%); SIEMENS AG (55%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (58%); ALV (BIT) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); CZB (LSE) (55%); CBK (FRA) (55%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) LANDLER, MARK; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



187 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: A Nominee With Vigor Gives Michigan Democrats Hope 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
At the morning-after unity breakfast, the giants of the Michigan Democratic Party were quiet -- or absent. James J. Blanchard, the only Democratic governor in 40 years, hugged the winner and slipped away. Representative David E. Bonior, who has spent much of his 26 years in Congress in the House leadership, clasped a coffee mug off to the side, clapping politely.
 Glowing at the center table was Jenni the giant-slayer, a former beauty queen turned Phi Beta Kappa lawyer who ran for office the first time only four years ago. On Tuesday, Jennifer N. Granholm, the state attorney general, won a bitter three-way primary with 48 percent of the vote, beating Mr. Blanchard and Mr. Bonior by 20 points. 
 She becomes the first woman to be nominated for governor in Michigan and will face the Republican candidate, Lt. Gov. Dick Posthumus. A recent survey showed Ms. Granholm outpolling Mr. Posthumus 52 percent to 38 percent in such a matchup, but he easily won his primary over State Senator John Schwarz and as a result has not begun to blitz the state.
"We're going to take back this state," Ms. Granholm, 43, vowed when she took the lectern after many ovations. "We're going to do it for our parents, we're going to do it for our children, we're going to do it for everyone who has been excluded."
The decisive victory was notable because Ms. Granholm, who raised a record $5.7 million, could become the first woman to be the state's governor and because she captured the nomination by focusing heavily on Western Michigan, traditionally Republican territory. She won all but two of the state's 83 counties -- the two that make up Mr. Bonior's district -- and, surveys of voters leaving the polls indicated, had particularly strong support among women, voters younger than 30 and baby boomers, whites, spouses of union members, residents of Western Michigan and college graduates.
Gov. John Engler, a tough conservative whose act-first, ask-later approach has sent his job-approval ratings to about 45 percent from near 70 percent over the last two years, is barred by law from seeking a fourth term.
Analysts attributed Ms. Granholm's victory to made-for-television looks and on-the-stump charisma. They also said she ran a smart campaign, guided by Clinton-Gore strategists, in which she avoided strong positions on hot-button issues. 
She fended off attacks about inexperience and ethical lapses, and used her short public resume as an asset in a state struggling economically and suffering from so-called Engler fatigue. 
"She didn't win because she was a woman but because of what she represents as a woman -- the new vision, the new direction," said Ed Sarpolus, a prominent pollster in Michigan. "If you talk to people on the street, it's, 'We tried Blanchard and he lost.' You talk to focus groups -- Bonior represents the old politics, the old ways, the old school. There's such a pent-up demand to want to win that they were looking for something new."
Ms. Granholm is one of about a dozen women with strong chances in the nation's 36 governor's contests this fall, 20 of which involve open seats. Five women are now governors. 
Some see the emergence of women as executive leaders as a counterpoint to the male-dominated scandals in corporate America and the Catholic Church, or as a natural step a decade after a number of women swept into Congress in 1992.
Karen O'Connor, director of the Women and Politics Institute at American University, said that the focus on statewide offices was inevitable after redistricting left few vulnerable Congressional seats. Ms. O'Connor added that governorships allowed women to avoid "the language of war" and concentrate on domestic issues, where they were seen as most credible.
She described Ms. Granholm as "any political operative's dream candidate," and lamented that, having been born in Canada, Ms. Granholm could not run for president.
Ms. Granholm's victory is likely to mean political retirement for Mr. Bonior, a fixture on the left wing of the Beltway who has been among labor's staunchest supporters and a dogged fighter for liberal causes. This morning, he endorsed the Democratic ticket, followed by a ritual embrace of Ms. Granholm, but said he had no interest in being Ms. Granholm's lieutenant governor. He said he was interested in serving in some capacity but was more likely to teach than to return to the campaign trail.
"I want to serve in some capacity," he said, "but there are other ways to serve the community."
Though Mr. Bonior will be leaving Washington, John D. Dingell, the nation's longest-serving congressman, will head back for a 24th term in the House, having staved off a serious challenge from Lynn Rivers, another incumbent, in a new district drawn by Republicans. 
Despite Ms. Rivers's recent gains in polls and support from national gun-control and women's groups, Mr. Dingell ended up with 59 percent of the vote to Ms. Rivers's 41 percent.
"He has one of the last of the political machines in the world," said Mr. Sarpolus, the pollster. "When they got scared two weeks ago everything came out of the woodwork -- the block clubs, the social clubs, the phone banks, everything."
While Mr. Posthumus, who coasted past Mr. Schwarz, a moderate, by more than 4 to 1, spent the day greeting workers at an auto plant and at a county fair, Ms. Granholm made thank-you calls from her headquarters in a shopping mall among interviews with the national news media. She said the fall campaign would be easier because it presented a stark choice, rather than a nasty battle among friends.
She long ago abandoned the nickname Jenni, which she used when she was an aspiring actress, became Miss San Carlos, Calif., and appeared on "The Dating Game" (she picked a bachelor but did not go out with him because he had a girlfriend). Now, Ms. Granholm's focus is on politics, where she alternates between sincere whispers and dynamic declarations. A mother of three, she offers a fierce handshake followed by a soft shoulder touch, and appeals to voters by looking directly into their eyes with her clear blue ones.
"I'm about as real as you can get," she said. Her sales pitch is a "combination of being a new face and I'm just a mother with kids, I want to get stuff done," she said. 
As attorney general, she has scored points as a consumer advocate attacking Internet pornography and gouging by gasoline stations. Though her Democratic opponents criticized her for not fighting hard enough against the Engler administration, her focus now will be to attack Mr. Posthumus as the governor's right hand.
"It's her race to lose," said Bill Ballenger, editor of the newsletter Inside Michigan Politics. "There is almost a sense of exhaustion in the state now: after 12 years of John Engler, give us something new and fresh and likable and not as conservative and not as tough and not as mean. She is the perfect un-Engler. Blond, trim, articulate, intelligent. Who could ask for more?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative David E. Bonior and Jennifer N. Granholm embraced yesterday in Detroit at a breakfast for Michigan Democrats. Ms. Granholm, the state attorney general, soundly defeated Mr. Bonior and former Gov. James J. Blanchard on Tuesday for the party's nomination for governor. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); LAWYERS (72%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ETHICS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) WOMEN; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; ORGANIZED LABOR; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (79%) BONIOR, DAVID E (REPR); BLANCHARD, JAMES J; GRANHOLM, JENNIFER M (ATTY GEN); POSTHUMUS, DICK (LT GOV); WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) MICHIGAN

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



188 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

14 Die in Colombia Blasts As Leader Is Inaugurated
Mortars apparently fired by leftist rebels killed at least 14 people and wounded 40 in Colombia minutes before the inauguration of Alvaro Uribe Velez, who won the presidency two months ago by promising to clamp down on guerrilla movements. A1

International Arms Sales Down
According to a new Congressional study, international arms sales to the developing world decreased dramatically in 2001. Numbers are the lowest in eight years, as those nations curtailed new weapons purchases because of the global economy. A8

Mideast Peace Agreement Fails
Yasir Arafat's Palestinian Authority had provisionally accepted Israel's conditions for a withdrawal from parts of the occupied territories, but after a joint meeting of security officials, Palestinian officials accused the Israelis of changing the offer, and any tentative agreement appeared already to have foundered. A14

Americans Kill 4 Afghans
American special forces in eastern Afghanistan shot four men dead on Tuesday, the second day in a row in which American forces killed people they said had tried to attack them. American forces have increasingly come under attack in their hunt for Qaeda forces. A16

China Threatens Taiwan
China's major English-language media threatened Taiwan with military action if the island's president continued with what Beijing called "radical pro-independence moves." But the army's newspaper, and the country's other Chinese-language media, were conspicuously mute. A9

German Documentary on Hitler
According to a new German television documentary, Adolf Hitler died wealthy. Hitler liked money, both for the luxuries and the loyalties it ensured, and he amassed a lot from his writing and from the copyright fees for his photographs. A1

Reactor Project in North Korea
An international consortium began building a nuclear reactor that is part of the largest Western aid project ever in North Korea. Western diplomats declared the project the best hope for preventing nuclear proliferation and forging more cooperation with the outside world. A14

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A18-22

Congressional Study Finds Child Aid Goes to Adults
Congressional investigators said that the Bush administration had improperly allowed some states to spend federal money intended for the Children's Health Insurance Program on childless adults instead. A1

Serial Killer Instills Fear
A serial killer is stalking Baton Rouge, and women there have learned to live with a dull fear, wondering why three attractive, professional, middle-class women opened their doors to him. A1

Going Off Half-Cocked
A gun that Representative Bob Barr, Republican of Georgia, was handling at a supporter's house went off, shattering a glass door and perhaps denting Mr. Barr's standing as a gun safety advocate. A18

Court Affirms Campaign Limits
A federal appeals court panel upheld a Vermont campaign-spending law in a ruling that lawyers said could reverberate far beyond the Green Mountain State and propel the issue of political spending back to the Supreme Court. A20

Cheney Backs Economic Policy
Vice President Dick Cheney gave a rare speech in San Francisco in which he defended the administration's stewardship of the faltering economy and vowed to punish corporate misconduct. A21

Students Post GRE Online
Chinese and Korean test administrators have suspended the electronic version of the most widely used entrance exam to American graduate schools after a number of students in China, Taiwan and South Korea were able to raise their scores substantially by memorizing questions and answers posted by previous test-takers on Web sites in those countries. A18

Deaths Tied to Nurse Shortage
The national organization that accredits hospitals reported that the lack of nurses contributes to nearly a quarter of all the unanticipated problems that result in death or injury to hospital patients. A18

Dietary Hormone Identified
Scientists from a medical school in London have identified a hormone that causes the feeling of fullness and suppresses appetite. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Family of 9/11 Victim Accepts U.S. Payout
The family of a young financial services employee from New York City who died in the terror attacks on Sept. 11 has become the first to publicly accept an award from the federal Victim Compensation Fund, marking a key moment for a program that is being closely scrutinized by both thousands of relatives of victims and American taxpayers. B1

Memorial Plans Will Vary
Ask 20 New Yorkers how they plan to observe the anniversary of Sept. 11 and you are likely to get at least 10 different answers. Many in the financial district agree that they have had more than their share of remembrance of Sept. 11 already. But it will be impossible not to be reminded, with the mayor's announcement of a daylong, five-borough commemoration of the terrorist attack. B1

Special Financing for Downtown
The State Housing Finance Agency has approved special financing worth up to $340 million for the construction of three new apartment buildings in Lower Manhattan. B4

New School Panel Announced
Borough presidents of Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens and the Bronx announced their appointees to the city's new Panel for Educational Policy. B3

13 Arrested in School Hazing
The police announced that they had arrested 13 current and former members of a New Jersey high school fraternity for assaulting three freshman boys in a hazing incident. B5

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES A23

SPORTS D1-7

Knicks Said to Miss a Deal
The Knicks reportedly rejected an opportunity to get Dikembe Mutombo, the all-star center who joined the New Jersey Nets. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Former ImClone Chief Arrested
Samuel D. Waksal, the former chief executive of ImClone Systems, has been indicted on charges of insider trading, bank fraud, forging a signature and destroying records. His lawyer said that Dr. Waksal was "presumed to be innocent." A1

Citigroup Alters Practices
The chief executive of Citigroup has outlined several changes in the way the bank will do business, including no longer providing financing for companies that plan to keep debts off their balance sheets. C1

$30 Billion Loan for Brazil
The International Monetary Fund has agreed to a $30 billion rescue loan for Brazil. At the same time, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill urged Argentina to "move quickly" to reach a similar accord. C1

Ford Chief Speaks Out
The chief executive of Ford, William Clay Ford Jr., said he hoped that automakers could ease their often contentious relationship with California, which has enacted a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. C1

Questions on Enron Deal
Trying to meet a year-end profit goal, Enron struck a deal with Merrill Lynch that let Enron book a $60 million profit in December 1999, former Enron executives said. Merrill Lynch said there was nothing improper. A1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Unlimited presidential powers; decoding North Korea; Burst Bubble Memorial Stadium.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MURDER (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMIES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FIREARMS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); CHILDREN (65%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (62%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (60%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); COPYRIGHT (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



189 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Arise in Trade Center Land Swap 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Nearly one week after word of the proposed trade of World Trade Center land for city-owned land beneath two airports first surfaced publicly, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg acknowledged yesterday that "nobody has sat down yet and talked about the money" or the terms of the deal.
 And the first meeting about the deal between city officials and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site and leases Kennedy and La Guardia Airports, is scheduled for today. 
 Despite public expressions of enthusiasm about the plan -- or at least a willingness to examine it -- by various officials since it first came to light, a small number of officials and urban planners are beginning to question the economic wisdom of trading 5,610 acres beneath the airports in Queens for the 16-acre trade center site in Lower Manhattan.
They argue that the city would be giving up rent increases at the airports that are worth hundreds of millions of dollars a year at a time when New York is facing enormous budget deficits. In return, the city would get control of the trade center site and, perhaps, the future of Lower Manhattan. But it is unclear what kind of money the city would get from the site. 
Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who held the lease on the buildings when they were attacked, currently pays the Port Authority about $120 million a year in rent for the site. But the rent would presumably drop substantially if a large memorial and less commercial development were built on the land as many people, including the mayor, are advocating.
"It's hard to figure out who the winners and losers are, in part because of the financial arrangements between the city and the Port Authority were always so murky," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a budget monitoring organization.
A state official was more blunt in his calculation. "The numbers don't make sense," he said.
Mitchell Moss, director of New York University's Urban Research Center, raised another objection. He said the Port Authority had long favored New Jersey over New York. He said he feared that the Port Authority, if it gained total control of the region's three major airports, would turn Newark Airport into the region's air entryway over the next decade at the expense of La Guardia and Kennedy Airports. 
"New York cannot afford to lose its airports, which are the most vital gateway we have to the world," Mr. Moss said. "The Port Authority will expand Newark Airport and connect it to Port Elizabeth, doing to our airports what they've already done to our seaports."
Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development, whose office originated the idea, has refused to say anything about the proposed swap. Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that Mr. Doctoroff had come up with a creative suggestion for how to deal with the sometimes conflicting interests of the government agencies and others involved with the trade center site, ranging from the Port Authority and the Empire State Development Corporation to the city and Mr. Silverstein.
But Mayor Bloomberg said he also recognized the city's financial constraints. "Clearly, the city has a fiscal problem," he said, "and the revenues from the leases that the Port Authority has are a lot of money. We're going to sit down and try to negotiate something."
State officials and the Port Authority were taken by surprise by the swap proposal when it first surfaced last week. "We don't know any of the details," said Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority, who also oversees Gov. George E. Pataki's economic development efforts as head of the Empire State Development Corporation. 
Implicit in the idea of the swap, however, is a distrust of the Port Authority's ability, in the words of one city official, to do the right thing downtown. In keeping with its lease with Mr. Silverstein, the Port Authority has pushed for 11 million square feet of office space on the trade center site, a demand that irked those who favor residential and cultural development and a large memorial.
Although the Port Authority has publicly said it would consider a swap, privately some of its executives are critical of the city's approach. "They're trying to come out as the good guys, while painting the Port Authority as bad guys," one official said. 
The city has been in negotiations with the Port Authority for about five months over extending the lease for La Guardia and Kennedy Airports beyond 2015. City officials have long complained that the Port Authority pays too little rent for the airports, which generated nearly $170 million in net income for the Port Authority last year. The authority has paid an average of $23 million a year over the past decade.
But in the talks, which both sides have described as "cordial," there was general agreement on a city proposal that it would receive $60 million to $80 million a year in rent. The authority rejected the city's notion that the Port Authority owed about $660 million in back rent. Some people involved in the talks said they thought an agreement on back rent could be reached.
"If everybody gives a little bit, who knows what could happen," said one executive at the authority.
If there is a land swap, the city would forgo the rents at the airports in favor of an uncertain future at the trade center site. Most analysts agree it will be years before any new office buildings are built, and housing and cultural institutions would bring much less money.
Advocates of a swap say the city could demand an additional cash payment from the Port Authority for the airport land and ultimately sell off development parcels at the trade center site. But real estate developers fear that they would be required to deal with the city's quirky land-use and environmental review process, which could further delay development of the site.
"There are going to be some complex negotiations around the details," said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, who favors a swap. "But I think the Port Authority has been in a terribly awkward position. Everyone would benefit from clearing up the confusion surrounding the lines of responsibility downtown." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); TERRORISM (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) REAL ESTATE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; AIRPORTS; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); RENTING AND LEASING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



190 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: In Twin Speeches, Bush and Cheney Vow to Fight Fraud 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES with ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
In a rare public appearance, Vice President Dick Cheney today defended the administration's stewardship of the faltering economy and vowed to punish corporate misconduct. 
 "When there is corporate fraud, the American people can be certain that the government will fully investigate, arrest and prosecute those responsible," Mr. Cheney told the Commonwealth Club of California. 
 President Bush echoed that vow in a strongly worded speech in Mississippi, where he appeared within 15 miles of the headquarters of WorldCom. After he met with an employee who had been laid off from WorldCom, Mr. Bush deplored the plight of workers who "lost their jobs and a good portion of their retirement funds because there was corporate malfeasance." Two of WorldCom's top executives have been charged with accounting fraud. 
"Here in Mississippi, you know what I'm talking about," Mr. Bush said at Madison Central High School just north of the capital, Jackson. "You know what it means to be let down by shady corporate practices." 
He promised that his administration would not let fear or fraud "undermine our economy" and that the Justice Department "will soon be prosecuting" the wrongdoers.
The twin speeches underscored how much political heat the Bush administration is feeling on the issue of corporate wrongdoing and were part of a White House strategy to reassure investors about the state of the economy and the administration's determination to crack down on corporate criminals. 
The president and vice president will appear next week at an economic forum at Baylor University in Waco, Tex. Along with members of the cabinet, they will oversee panels on subjects like corporate responsibility, retirement security and trade.
The president's calendar during a monthlong stay at his 1,600-acre Texas ranch is full of day trips, like the one today, to talk about the economy. 
Mr. Cheney's appearance before a friendly audience of 500 at the Fairmont Hotel was noteworthy because he has been out of the public eye in the weeks since the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosed that it was investigating the accounting practices of Halliburton, the oil services company he used to run. 
He deflected a question regarding the inquiry, saying he was restrained from commenting during it. 
In his speech, Mr. Cheney emphasized the administration's commitment to punishing corporate criminals in the wake of the eruption of corporate accounting scandals. He was interrupted by a handful of protesters who shouted, "Cheney is a crook, nowhere to hide!"
The five protesters, members of Global Exchange, a human rights group in San Francisco, were led away by police officers as the audience politely clapped. Outside, about 300 protesters who had assembled by 7 a.m. stood across the street from the hotel. Their chants alternated between protesting Mr. Cheney's connection with Halliburton and any administration plans to invade Iraq.
The corporate accountability issue has already cut deeply into political contests in the states that Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush visited today. Notable for his absence on Mr. Cheney's agenda was the Republican candidate for governor of California, Bill Simon, who was scheduled to attend a breakfast this morning in Oakland at the time of Mr. Cheney's speech. Mr. Cheney had no appearances planned with Mr. Simon, whose campaign was rocked last week by a jury's order for his family firm to pay $78 million for defrauding a former business partner.
Mr. Cheney traveled this afternoon to Fresno for a fund-raiser for Dick Monteith, the Republican candidate for the seat held by Representative Gary A. Condit, a Democrat who lost the primary to a state assemblyman, Dennis Cardoza.
After his remarks at Madison High School, Mr. Bush left for a fund-raising lunch that collected $1 million for the Mississippi Republican Party and Representative Charles W. Pickering Jr., who has been criticized by his opponent for not returning more than $82,000 in campaign donations he accepted from WorldCom executives and employees. 
The vice president's speech, billed as a talk on the economy and national security, sounded at times like an address a chief executive might give to shareholders. On the economy, he said that it was now "clear from the data" that "the nation had slid into a full-blown recession" by the time he and President Bush took office, "with the economy contracting throughout the first, second and third quarters of 2001." He credited the administration's tax cuts with helping the country to "climb out of the recession and to weather the terrible financial effects of Sept. 11," although the recession has not abated and the stock market today continued its decline.
President Bush also said that the nation's economic troubles were not of his making, and, with his chief political adviser, Karl Rove, watching from the sidelines, blamed his predecessor for them instead, as well as the attacks of Sept. 11 and the continuing corporate scandals. 
"When I took office, our economy was beginning a recession," Mr. Bush said. "That's what the facts have shown. Then our economy was hit by terrorists. Then our economy was hit by corporate scandals. But I'm certain of this: we won't let fear undermine our economy, and we're not going to let fraud undermine it either."
The president and the vice president addressed other issues as well. At the lunch for Mr. Pickering in Jackson, Mr. Bush criticized the Democratic-controlled Senate for rejecting his nominee, Judge Charles W. Pickering Sr., Mr. Pickering's father, for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
"The Senate did wrong by Judge Pickering," Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Cheney, in his speech, said he was looking forward to a second term, if Mr. Bush asks him to be on the ticket in 2004, The Associated Press reported. "If the president is willing, and if my wife approves, and if the doctors say it's O.K., then I'd be happy to serve a second term," he said. "But I emphasize again, that's the president's call, not mine."
Mr. Cheney also discussed Iraq, emphasizing that Saddam Hussein, the president, had not complied with a United Nations resolution after the Persian Gulf war in which he agreed to halt his quest to built weapons of mass destruction.
But allowing United Nations' weapons inspectors back into his country would not be enough to stop the United States from invading, either, Mr. Cheney said. He said the administration had not decided whether to invade Iraq, saying it was "considering all possibilities."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 8 about speeches by President Bush and Vice President Cheney defending the administration's stewardship of the economy referred incorrectly to the 2001 recession and to the direction of the stock market on Aug. 7. Economists agree that the recession has ended, not continued. The Dow Jones industrial average rose the day of the speeches, by 182 points; it did not decline.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheerleaders waiting yesterday for President Bush in Madison, Miss. Later, he went to a fund-raiser for Representative Charles W. Pickering Jr. (Associated Press); President Bush greeting supporters at the airport in Jackson, Miss. He and Vice President Dick Cheney, in San Francisco, spoke yesterday about corporate crime. (Reuters); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (96%); MISCONDUCT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); ETHICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SCANDALS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (81%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%) HALLIBURTON CO 

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (81%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (81%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (92%); CHARLES W PICKERING (56%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; NIEVES, EVELYN; BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002 



191 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. "Baseball as America," an exploration of the relationship between baseball and American culture; through Aug. 18. Special events this weekend: "Indigenous Peoples of the Himalayas," a lecture by Sher Malik, director of the Indigenous Peoples Survival Foundation, tomorrow at 1 p.m.; "Cave Rock: The Issue," a film screening tomorrow at 2 p.m.; and a reading by American Indian poets tomorrow at 3 p.m. In the Imax Theater, "Bears" and "Kilimanjaro: To the Roof of Africa." Imax tickets for both films, including museum admission, are $21; $17 for students and 60+; $15 for children under 12. Tickets to one Imax feature, including museum admission, are $15, $11 for students and 60+ and $9 for children under 12. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Admission to "Baseball as America" is by timed-entry ticket only, available on the half-hour, beginning at 10:30 a.m. Tickets, including suggested museum admission, are $15; $11 for students and 60+; $9 for 12 and under; under 2, free. Combination tickets are available for other museum exhibitions. General museum admission (suggested donation): $10; $7.50 for students and 60+; 12 and under, $6; under 2, free. Information: www.amnh.org, (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. "The Liberty Oaks," a new planting of scarlet oaks in memory of the victims and heroes of Sept. 11. The Butterfly and Hummingbird Trail, a self-guided tour, through Aug. 31. "Tropical Watercolors by Manabu Saito," through Sunday. Grounds are open Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Conservatory hours, 10 a.m to 5 p.m. when the garden is open. Suggested admission: $3; $1.50 for students and 65+ (free for 65+ on Fridays); free for children 15 and under; free for all on Tuesdays, except holidays; free from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. The conservatory closes 30 minutes before the grounds. Information: (718) 623-7200.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway at Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. "Sculpture From the Museum of Modern Art at the New York Botanical Garden," 15 pieces of sculpture on view within the courtyard of the Conservatory through Aug. 31, 2003. "Victorian Ornamentals," with displays of coleus, cannas and other plants; through Oct. 27. Special Summer Storytelling Series in the Everett Children's Adventure Garden, tomorrow at 2 and 3 p.m., featuring Story Laurie. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Garden grounds admission: $3; $2 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12. Garden Passport: $10; $7.50 for 62+ and students; $4 for children 2 to 12. Forest tours, Thursdays at 1 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 11 a.m. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Highlights of the garden tours, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Conservatory admission: $5; $4 for students and 62+; $3 for those 2 to 12; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. The best way to see the garden is with a Garden Passport, which includes admission to the grounds and a tram tour: adults, $10; students and 62+, $7.50; ages 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free. Information: (718) 817-8700; www.nybg.org.

WAVE HILL, West 249th Street and Independence Avenue, Riverdale, the Bronx. Gardens, greenhouses and woodlands are part of this 28-acre garden and cultural institution. "Un Verano de Juego con Sombras" ("A Summer of Shadow Play"), a shadow puppet play set in the Caribbean and performed by Jorge Crespo, an author and artist. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m. Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission: $4; $2 for students; free for members and children under 6. Free for all on Tuesdays and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to noon. Information: (718) 549-3200.

WALKING TOURS

"DISCOVER PROSPECT PARK," a free walk meeting Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m., in the Prospect Park Audubon Center at the Boathouse. Sponsored by the Prospect Park Alliance. Information: (718) 287-3400.

"MANHATTANVILLE: OLD HEART OF WEST HARLEM," important historical and manufacturing locations including the sites of the Battle of Harlem Heights and the Yuengling Brewery. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. on the southwest corner of Broadway and West 125th Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Afoot Walking Tours. Information: (212) 939-0994.

OLD TIME N.Y.C. GANGSTERS TOUR covers Midtown and Upper West Side locations associated with notorious crime figures, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the northeast corner of Broadway and 43rd Streets. Fee, $20. Sponsored by www.NewYorkCity-tours.com. Information: (212) 475-6914.

"WALL STREET TO THE BATTERY, 'WHERE IT ALL BEGAN.' " A tour of the historic sites in the area, including Trinity Church and Castle Clinton. Meets Sunday at 2 p.m. in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Bernie's New York. Information: (718) 655-1883.

92ND STREET Y. Two Sunday tours: the Flatiron district at 10 a.m. and the northern section of Central Park at 11 a.m. Fee for each, $20. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 415-5500.

I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS. "Greenwich Village Past and Present," covering the architecture, history and historic residents of the area, meeting tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 12th Street; "Historic Lower Manhattan," also discussing the historical importance of the area, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. on the steps of the Alexander Hamilton United States Customs House, Broadway and Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. Fee for each, $12. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"FIFTH AVENUE GOLD COAST," Upper East Side. Visits the great mansions of upper Fifth Avenue and vicinity, discusses the people and stories behind them and examines how the neighborhood came to be. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Fee: $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.

NOSHWALK IN SUNSET PARK, BROOKLYN. Stops at a Chinese supermarket, a Turkish food shop and a Dominican bakery. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. in the parking lot of the Hong Kong Dynasty Supermarket, Eighth Avenue and 60th Street. Fee, $15. Information: (212) 222-2243.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS. "Child-Friendly Ramble: Brooklyn Bridge for Young Engineers" examines the lives of the Roebling family who were instrumental in the construction of the bridge, meeting tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in Blimpies Restaurant, 38 Park Row, between Spruce and Beekman Streets, Lower Manhattan; fee: $8. "Robber Barons, Reactionaries, Reformers, Radicals and Rabble Rousers: Social Action in the East Village," meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of the Second Avenue Deli, Second Avenue and 10th Street; fee, $12. Information: (888) 377-4455.

RECREATION

NEW YORK CITY MARATHON LONG TRAINING RUN NO. 1, Central Park. A 20-mile run, beginning tomorrow at 7 a.m. at the East Drive and 99th Street; the race will be limited to the first 2,500 runners. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Registration fee: $15; $10 for club members. Information: (212) 860-4455 or www.nyrrc.org.

"TAKE A WALK, NEW YORK!," a series of free walks around the city. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., a walk along the Croton Aqueduct in the Bronx, meeting outside the Bedford Park Boulevard stop on the No. 4 train. Information: (212) 379-8339.

EVENTS

"SUNSET JAM ON THE HUDSON," interactive drumming workshops with Pamela Patrick. Tonight from 6:30 to 8:30. Free. Robert F. Wagner Jr. Park, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by the Battery Park City Parks Conservancy. Information: (212) 267-9700.

"RIVERFLICKS," a free outdoor film series, featuring "Rear Window" (1954), directed by Alfred Hitchcock, tonight about 8:15, Pier 25, the Hudson River and North Moore Street, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by the Hudson River Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275.

HARLEM WEEK 2002 BLACK FILM FESTIVAL, Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building, 163 West 125th Street, Harlem. An annual festival running through Aug. 17. Screenings include "She's Gotta Have It" (1986), directed by Spike Lee, tonight at 7:30; "Purlie" (1981), directed by Rudi Goldman, tomorrow at 2 p.m.; and "Marcus Garvey: Look for Me in the Whirlwind" (2001), directed by Stanley Nelson, Sunday at 3:15 p.m. Admission is $5, $4 for students. Sponsored by the Museum of African American Cinema and the IAMAA: Harlem Art Council. Information: (212) 749-5298.

"ACCESS UPHEAVAL," annual free, outdoor production presented by the Theater for the New City at various locations around the city through Sept. 15. Locations this weekend: St. Mark's Park, East 10th Street and Second Avenue, Manhattan (tomorrow 2 p.m.); and Herbert Von King Park, Marcy and Tompkins Avenues, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn (Sunday at 2 p.m.) Information: (212) 254-1109.

URBAN PARK RANGERS will offer an array of free activities this weekend. Canoeing is planned at several locations: tomorrow at 1 p.m. in Crotona Park, the Bronx and at Oakland Lake, in Queens; and on Sunday at Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens; reservations are necessary for the Queens rides. Also tomorrow night at 7:30, a night hike in Inwood Hill Park, Manhattan; and on Sunday at 7 p.m., a "Meteor Shower Meditation" in Marine Park, Brooklyn. Information: (866) 692-4295.

ANNUAL DRAGON BOAT FESTIVAL, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens. With races, entertainment and food. Tomorrow and Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information: (718) 353-3858.

MANHATTAN YOUTH FAIR, Fulton Street, from Broadway to Gold Street, Lower Manhattan. Today, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by Manhattan Youth and Recreation.

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALTIY (CORE) 60TH-ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL, Seventh Avenue, from 45th to 57th Streets, Manhattan. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The celebration also includes free seminars about 9/11 and the 1963 Alabama church bombing, on Sunday from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers, Seventh Avenue and 52nd Street. Information: (212) 598-4000.

BLEECKER STREET FESTIVAL, from Seventh to Eighth Avenues, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

JUNCTION BOULEVARD FESTIVAL, from Roosevelt to 35th Avenues, Jackson Heights, Queens. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

MADISON AVENUE SUMMERFEST, from 42nd Street to 57th Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Workmen's Circle.

RIDGEWOOD QUEENS MYRTLE AVENUE SUMMERFEST, between Fresh Ponds and Wyckoff Roads. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

"JAMMIN' ON THE HUDSON," with the Bob Cunningham Trio, Sunday at 5 p.m. at Riverbank State Park, 679 Riverside Drive, at 145th Street, Hamilton Heights. Part of a free series of outdoor concerts. Information: (212) 694-4829.

"MOONDANCE," Pier 25, Hudson River and North Moore Street, Lower Manhattan. Free dancing to live music. With Mo'Guajiro, a Latin band, Sunday, 6:30 to 10 p.m. Part of a summer series sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275.

FAMILY DANCE: CHERISH THE LADIES, Esplanade Plaza, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Free line and step dancing, with music by the group and a caller. Tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Downtown N.Y.C. River to River Festival. Information: (212) 528-2733.

PUCHO AND THE LATIN SOUL BROTHERS, appearing Sunday at 4 p.m. at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, Central Park, 110th Street and Fifth Avenue. Part of the free Harlem Meer Performance Festival, running through Sept. 1. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy; spectators should bring seating. Information: (212) 860-1370.

"SONGS AND CEREMONIES OF TAIWAN'S TSOU PEOPLE," Bowne Street Community Church, 143-11 Roosevelt Avenue, Flushing, Queens. A free performance of songs and rituals. Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in New York. Information: (212) 557-5122.

BIG CITY FISHING AND RIVER WORKSHOPS, Hudson River Park's Pier 25 (North Moore Street) and Pier 40 (Houston Street), Lower Manhattan. Experienced anglers will be on hand to give fishing tips to others, Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Equipment and bait will be provided for free. Also, a look at the river's ecosystem. Sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275; www.hudsonriverpark.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- Scene from "She's Gotta Have It," a Harlem Festival film. (Island Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BASEBALL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); HISTORY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); PAINTING (78%); MOUNTAINS (72%); WRITERS (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); HIMALAYAS (88%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



192 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: RITUALS; 
Palm Springs in August: The Ducks Use Sunblock

BYLINE:  By MARC WEINGARTEN 

 BODY:
AS a vacation port of call, Southern California has got it all. It's like a giant geographic theme park. Want to lap up glistening waves and bury your feet in the sand? The beach beckons. How about thick forests with fir- and pine-covered mountains? The majestic Angeles National Forest is a quick drive from Los Angeles. I prefer to use Dante's "Inferno" as my Baedeker. Every summer, whenever I get the itch for a little rest and relaxation, I venture deep into the inner circle of hell -- otherwise known as Palm Springs.
 Hades has got nothing on Palm Springs in the summer. Oh, it's hot, all right, so hot that some say the ducks wear S.P.F. 30 sunblock, and a leisurely round of golf feels like cruel and unusual punishment. It's the best possible time to vacation there. 
 Insane, you say? No, just sensible. I first discovered Palm Springs, July version, when I moved to Los Angeles in the 1980's. Short on time and vacation options, I just started driving east on the Santa Monica Freeway and didn't stop until the fast-foodand-truck-stop scenery melted into a stunning vista of craggy mountains and twisted chaparral.
I had never seen anything quite like it before. Growing up in New York, I had whiled away my summers in the verdant Catskill Mountains, but Palm Springs was something else entirely, like an elemental landscape lifted from a David Lean film. I decided right then and there that I would make this place my annual getaway destination, even if the weather was sub-Saharan.
In a city whose economy is driven by a temperate winter-to-spring tourist industry, the summer season, when the mercury rarely dips below 100 during the day, is like an annual natural disaster. 
Suddenly, a nice hotel room overlooking the pool that might otherwise go for $200 or more during the high season can be had for $79 a night. It's such an open secret that my wife, Lynn, and I often wonder why more people don't take advantage of it. 
You have to learn to befriend the heat; otherwise, you are beaten. The trick is to endure it for short stretches, or just long enough to make a steaming pool feel like a salve to the soul. This requires you to submit to the following routine: Sit in the sun for three minutes. Jump in the pool. Break into an aqueous sweat. Get out. Towel off. Repeat until dinnertime rolls around, when you're so strung out that a single umbrella drink has you hallucinating about lawn chairs made of dry ice.
Our first summer trip to Palm Springs with our two young daughters gave us pause. We were concerned that the heat would be too much for them and they would wilt like Muenster cheese in a microwave. When my wife and I first pulled into the circular driveway of the Marriott at Rancho Mirage, the car's temperature gauge read 116 degrees. We both regarded it grimly. Then Lynn turned to me and said, "How do old people live here?" I didn't have an answer for her.
My children didn't know what to make of it at first, so I lugged them out to the pool before they had a chance to change their minds. I dipped in a toe and recoiled. "Uh, kids, I'm afraid that the water is a little too hot for -- " But it was too late. They had both jumped in. Samantha, my oldest, called out to me: "Come on in, Dad, the water's fine!" They were easily shrugging off the blazing sun like veteran desert rats. This was exactly how I wanted it to pan out.
I left the family at the pool and tried a round of golf at Shadow Ridge, a stunning Nick Faldo course whose most striking feature is its conspicuous lack of shade. The temperature was holding steady at 110 degrees. Swinging a 4-iron in that thick air was like cutting through dense undergrowth with a scythe. My forearms felt like sandbags as I battled the front nine, but I was determined not to wimp out. These were, after all, ideal conditions; aside from one couple a few holes behind me, I was playing a topnotch course all by myself. It was heaven on earth. Or the earth's core, at least.
Our friends think that the desert climate has severely compromised our judgment, but extreme heat in Palm Springs means low prices, and that's the right price for us, regardless of the weather. Besides, the climate does have its advantages. You can lose weight just by standing in it. Tans are easy to come by. Starting a fire with a couple of Popsicle sticks is a snap.
Now we're thinking about a cut-rate winter routine. Maybe Fairbanks has some good deals.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); TOURISM (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: WEINGARTEN, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) PALM SPRINGS (CALIF); CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



193 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: Andrew J. Spano 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Democrat Who Found a Home in Westchester

BYLINE:  By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
ANDREW J. SPANO, history teacher and son of a Bronx tavern owner, was house-hunting 40 years ago, looking for something a young husband and father could afford on a New York City Board of Education salary.
 He headed north to the green and prosperous precincts of Westchester County, passing town after town beyond his means. The Spanos drove. Then they drove some more. Finally they got to Yorktown and its modest Cape Cods. A few jobs and a few wives later, it is still Mr. Spano's home. 
 "If I'd gone a few miles farther," Mr. Spano said, "I could have been county executive of Putnam." 
Yorktown, with its 3-to-1 Republican registration, seemed a starchy place to the young fireband. Mr. Spano had been a union activist, one of the founders of the United Federation of Teachers. His teaching career had segued into special education, administering programs for inner city youngsters institutionalized at former orphanages along with Hudson. He campaigned for Eugene McCarthy. He marched against the Vietnam War.
His complaining about the local political scene annoyed the first Mrs. Spano, who suggested he get involved instead. She dragged him to Democratic club meetings and watched as he became a gadfly in a Republican town, drafted to run in a series of hopeless elections. In 1971, when the local Democrats could barely find candidates for five vacant offices, Mr. Spano was the sacrificial lamb in the town supervisor's race. In '72 and again in '74, he ran and lost for State Assembly. 
But each race was closer and by his third, Mr. Spano had actually won the town of Yorktown by 1,000 votes and had begun to appreciate his own appeal as a crossover candidate. If he ran countywide, he figured, he'd do better than most Democrats in the eight northern Westchester towns and would find his more natural constituents in the down-county cities of Yonkers and Mount Vernon.
It was a wise calculation, setting in motion Mr. Spano's long march to the county executive's suite. Three terms as county clerk (the first Democrat since the 19th century to hold the job), a stint as Democratic Party leader, a comfortable victory in his first race for Westchester's highest office in 1997 -- he is only the second Democratic county executive Westchester has had -- led to a landslide for his second term, now approaching its midway mark.
During the years of Mr. Spano's climb, Westchester County experienced an influx of New York City professionals and its electoral majority shifted from Republican to Democratic. But Westchester has a fiercely independent steak and a hallmark of Mr. Spano's administration has been his ability to reach across party lines. Spano fund-raisers are crowded with Republican businessmen and lawyers, who see him as committed to their interests.
A key to Mr. Spano's popularity is that he avoids conflict. He keeps a low profile in Nimby wars, like the one in New Rochelle that blocked the opening of an Ikea store. He asked the Entergy Corporation, which owns the Indian Point nuclear power plant, not to contribute to a local performance of the New York City Philharmonic. Not because he is an opponent of the plants, Mr. Spano said, but because it might have stirred up trouble.
Another asset is Mr. Spano's wife (No. 3) of 16 years, Brenda Resnick Spano, who was his second-in-command in one of his special education jobs and then in the clerk's office. The county executive calls her his best fund-raiser, a job Mrs. Spano's father held in their family's Orthodox synagogue in Brooklyn. 
"My father said if I had married her first, I might be president of the United States," Mr. Spano said. "Her mother said if I'd married her first I'd be a doctor."
EASY-GOING and affable are the words most often used to describe Mr. Spano. But until recently, he was running a county where "there's not much wrong." That has changed, as Westchester, along with governments and households across the nation, suddenly face the privations of a jittery economy, a bear market and a post-9/11 world. 
Mr. Spano is about to find out if he is good or lucky. The arena is a budget battle that will pit the 66-year-old county executive against Westchester's Board of Legislators and its delegation in Albany. In 2003, with falling sales tax revenues and investment income and increases in mandated programs like Medicaid, the county projects a $102 million deficit in a $1.37 billion budget.
Mr. Spano presents his budget proposal in November but the number-crunching, and political posturing, have already begun. He has called for a 1 percent hike in the sales tax, now a relatively low 6.75 percent except in the cities of Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, White Plains and Yonkers, where the combination of local, county and state taxes ranges from 7.75 to 8.25 percent.
If the lawmakers in White Plains and Albany balk, Mr. Spano is threatening an increase of nearly one-third in the county's small percentage of the property tax, or about $650 a year for a homeowner currently paying $10,000. The third alternative is a reduction of services.
Swords are already drawn. And the Republicans, whom Mr. Spano befriended, are the least of his worries. It is Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a fellow Democrat, who has refused to introduce legislation necessary for the sales tax increase.
But Mr. Spano trusts his own amiability. "I even get along with my ex-wives," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew J. Spano (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); ORPHANS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); VIETNAM WAR (52%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%)

SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC); GROSS, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



194 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Surgeon Who Left an Operation To Run an Errand Is Suspended 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
Massachusetts has indefinitely suspended a surgeon's medical license because he left a patient anesthetized on an operating table with an open incision in his back while he went to a bank several blocks away.
 The patient was not harmed, but the surgeon, Dr. David C. Arndt, created an immediate threat when he left the patient at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge to go to a bank in Harvard Square, the State Board of Registration in Medicine said on Wednesday. 
 "I've never seen anything quite like this," said Nancy Achin Sullivan, executive director of the board.
An investigator for the board who interviewed the operating room staff and other hospital employees said the incident took place on July 10.
Dr. Arndt, an orthopedic surgeon who is a 1992 graduate of Harvard Medical School, asked a nurse several times during the six-hour surgery to call his office to see if his paycheck had arrived. Around 5:30 p.m., with the surgery about three-quarters completed, another surgeon stepped into the operating room and handed Dr. Arndt his pay envelope.
Dr. Arndt, 45, asked that surgeon, who was not credentialed to perform the surgery and had not scrubbed in, to wait there for five minutes while he took a break, the investigator said. The other surgeon told the board he assumed Dr. Arndt was going to the restroom. 
While he was gone, Dr. Arndt did not answer several pages. He told the board's investigator that he regretted his actions and had "exercised remarkably horrible judgment." 
Dr. Arndt said that the surgery had run longer than he expected and that he had to get the check to the bank because he was in "a financial crisis" and had to pay bills.
Mount Auburn officials suspended him the day after the incident, and reported the matter to the state board. 
In suspending Dr. Arndt's license, the board called him a "serious threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public."
His lawyer, Claudia Hunter, said today that Dr. Arndt would appeal the suspension. He has a right to a hearing, but no date has been set.
"He regrets his actions of July 10 and apologizes to his patient," Ms. Hunter said. "At the time of the events, the patient was stable and the surgery was successful." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); LAWYERS (65%); ETHICS (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; DOCTORS; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; HOSPITALS; MALPRACTICE 

ORGANIZATION: MOUNT AUBURN HOSPITAL (CAMBRIDGE, MASS) 

PERSON: ARNDT, DAVID C (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (89%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) BOSTON (MASS); MASSACHUSETTS; CAMBRIDGE (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



195 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Get Lift from Brazil Bailout and Rise for 3rd Day

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Shares climbed for a third day yesterday as news of a massive financial bailout for the debt-ridden Brazil lifted banking giants like Citigroup and investors saw bargains in battered stocks. 
 Stocks zigzagged in early trading but then advanced as investors piled in on worries that they might miss a chance to buy stocks at relatively lower prices. 
 The market also received a lift this week from hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates sometime this year, after a string of tepid economic reports showed that the recovery may have hit a roadblock. 
Results from the network equipment maker Cisco Systems earlier in the week also helped restore some optimism to the technology sector. 
"There's the thought the Fed is going to ease, and that's a positive. Then you had Cisco come through with O. K. earnings, and Brazil has helped the whole financial group," said Alan Loewenstein, a manager of the John Hancock Technology Fund. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 255.87 points, or 3 percent, to 8,712.02. The Nasdaq composite index gained 35.62 points, or 2.8 percent, to 1,316.52, after wobbling earlier from gains to losses. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 28.69 points, or 3.3 percent, at 905.46.
"People are sensing we're close to a bottom after having had some sharp rallies," said Matt Holscher, the head of Nasdaq trading for W. R. Hambrecht & Company. "The first phase was short-covering. Now people are dipping their toes in the water and thinking it might be a decent time to get involved." 
In the last three days, the Dow has risen 8.3 percent; the S.& P., 8.5 percent; and the Nasdaq, 9.2 percent. For the year, though, the Dow has dropped 13.1 percent; the S.& P. 500, 21.1 percent; and the Nasdaq, 32.5 percent. 
Shares in Citigroup rose 7.6 percent, or $2.38, to $33.90. And J. P. Morgan Chase rose 9.7 percent, or $2.34, to $26.38, as banks that had lent money to Brazil were bolstered by news of the International Monetary Fund's $30 billion bailout. The bailout helped ease fears that Brazil might default on its $250 billion public debt.
Shares of Brazilian companies that trade in the United States increased sharply. Brasil Telecom, for one, rose $3.85, to $30.40. 
Cisco gained 21 cents, or $13.20. On Tuesday, Cisco posted higher quarterly earnings because of cost cuts and almost tripled its stock buyback program.
Home improvement retail stocks were lower, though, after a profit warning from the electronics retailer Best Buy raised worries that consumer spending on durable goods was easing. Best Buy lost $11.25, to $19.55, as it cut its quarterly profit outlook for the second time in two months. 
The home improvement retailer Home Depot slid $1.12, to $27.14. A rival, Lowe's, was off $1.26, at $35.22. 
Shares in Univision Communications, a Spanish-language media company, sank $1.93, to $19.97. The company posted lower quarterly earnings and warned of slower growth in the second half of the year. 
Microsoft gained $1.82, to $48.91, after the company agreed to 20 years of government oversight of its online identity service to settle charges that it misled consumers about security and privacy standards. 
Treasury prices dropped yesterday in response to a surge in the markets.
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note increased to 4.40 percent, from 4.39 percent on Wednesday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, decreased 11/32 , to 99 26/32 .
The yield on the 30-year bond increased to 5.23 percent, from 5.22 percent, while the price decreased 3/32 , to 102 7/32 .

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); RETAILERS (62%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (61%); HOME CENTERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); WR HAMBRECHT & CO LLC (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) CITIGROUP INC; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



196 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
A Reply to Perceived Attacks

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
 Andrew M. Cuomo, the former secretary of housing and a Democratic candidate for governor in the Sept. 10 primary, released a 30-second advertisement that will be shown today on New York City stations and run for about 10 days, his campaign aides said.

PRODUCER -- Squier, Knapp and Dunn

ON THE SCREEN -- Mr. Cuomo speaks directly into the camera. About midway, shots of him and his family appear, followed by scenes of Mr. Cuomo with people, including a young man, a construction worker and children.

THE SCRIPT -- "I'm Andrew Cuomo. My opponent's campaign began by attacking my father, my wife and calling the campaign a street fight. Well, let me tell you what I think. I'm proud of Mario Cuomo's principles and integrity and my wife Kerry's work. This campaign shouldn't be about our families; it should be about yours. I believe our state faces new challenges and needs new ideas to rebuild our economy, fix our schools, clean up corporate greed and government ethics. That's what my campaign's about -- building a new New York together."

ACCURACY -- The Cuomo campaign cites comments by his Democratic opponent, H. Carl McCall, made in two newspaper interviews, in December and May 2000. In the May interview, Mr. McCall noted that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's failed re-election bid left the state Democratic Party in debt. In the December interview, Mr. McCall spoke of the state's economic troubles and the rise of Gov. George E. Pataki, saying "Mario Cuomo is the reason we're in trouble now." As for Mr. Cuomo's wife, Kerry Kennedy Cuomo, the campaign cites comments in a NY1 News interview in May with Rep. Charles B. Rangel, a McCall supporter, who suggested Ms. Cuomo did not stand out with the likes of such other family members as Senator Edward M. Kennedy. The "street fight" is how the Cuomo campaign interprets Mr. McCall's comment last week that "if you were out in the street, in a battle, and you were kind of losing, you might run home for dad."

SCORECARD -- There is no denying Mr. Cuomo has chosen to interpret scattered comments as a broad attack and has responded almost in kind. While not filled with grainy video and grim, electronic music -- the hallmarks of an attack ad -- it nevertheless is a barb that accuses his unnamed opponent of negative campaigning. And it raises the question, if the campaign should not be about families, as he says, why even bring up the so-called attacks? There are advantages to referring to his family. Mr. Cuomo manages to remind viewers of his connection with Mario Cuomo -- who remains popular among many Democrats -- while slipping in the notion he is a family man, something Mr. McCall, who is married and has a grown daughter, has not sought to portray. Over all, Mr. Cuomo manages to throw an elbow while appearing to take the high road.
 RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); ETHICS (73%); MUSIC (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); TED KENNEDY (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



197 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Markets Rally on News of FreshCash 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
Heartened by a $30 billion loan package from the International Monetary Fund that was much larger than expected, investors drove up sharply Brazil's flagging currency, stocks and bonds today.
 Markets here have been roiled for months by fears of a leftist victory in the October election to succeed the market-friendly president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso. But in recent weeks, unease has turned into panic. 
 Today, analysts said that Brazil would stave off a financial crisis because of the size and the structure of the loan. Only $6 billion of the package will be released this year, effectively giving whoever wins the election an incentive to stick with the fund's fiscal policies.
"The size, plus the parceling of the money, puts pressure on the candidates to do the right thing," said John Welch, Latin America economist at WestLB in New York. "This binds the politics much better" than a smaller loan paid up front, he said.
Sao Paulo's benchmark stock index, the Bovespa, rose 4.51 percent today, its biggest one-day gain since November. Brazilian sovereign bonds gained as much as 7.6 percent, halting weeks of declines. The currency, the real, which has plumbed record depths in recent weeks, rallied more than 3 percent.
The president of the central bank, Arminio Fraga, said today that for now, there would be no more need for daily central bank intervention to prop the real. He called the I.M.F. loan "a spectacular agreement for Brazil."
Finance Minister Pedro Malan said, "I'm convinced from the conversations we have had over recent days that we will have the support of the candidates." Representatives for the left-leaning front-runners for president -- Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of the Workers Party and Ciro Gomes of the Labor Front -- have indicated that they would respect the deal, even while expressing some reservations about it. The government's candidate, Jose Serra, welcomed the loan agreement enthusiastically.
Rodrigo Azevedo, chief economist at CSFB-Garantia in Sao Paulo, said the deal would test the candidates. "It's a strong incentive to get the candidates to commit to fiscal austerity," he said. "This is going to be a test of credibility, and that credibility cannot be won by a merely formal endorsement."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Brazilian paper features the $30 billion loan package and the presidential runners' reactions. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%) CURRENCY; CREDIT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: WESTLB AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); JOHN K WELCH (56%) SMITH, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



198 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Farm Union Bill Holds Peril for California Leader 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
A union's chief role is to deliver better wages and benefits to its members, so it has been a huge frustration for the United Farm Workers that agricultural workers have not gotten a contract more than half the times they have voted to unionize.
 The union has turned to the state capital for help, and today the Legislature sent Gov. Gray Davis a bill that would enable unionized farm workers to use binding arbitration to obtain a contract. California's $27 billion agricultural industry opposes the bill, insisting that contracts imposed through arbitration will drive growers out of business. 
 The bill poses major problems for Governor Davis, a Democrat, as he seeks re-election. If he signs it, he will upset growers and businesses, two groups he has courted. If he vetoes it, he will anger his longtime allies in organized labor and in Hispanic groups. So far, the governor has not tipped his hand.
"This is extremely significant legislation," said Kent Wong, a professor specializing in labor issues at the University of California at Los Angeles, "and it creates some real problems for the governor. On the one hand, he very much wants labor support. He is counting on strong labor turnout in November. But on the other hand, he is trying hard to attract middle-class voters, so he doesn't want to appear to be in labor's pocket."
Saying they would be surprised if Governor Davis vetoed the bill, farm worker leaders asserted that intransigence among growers had prevented tens of thousands of farm workers from obtaining contracts that would improve their wages and benefits.
According to the union, workers have voted to join the U.F.W. at 428 companies since 1975, but only 185 contracts have been signed. At one vegetable grower in Salinas, D'Arrigo Brothers, the workers voted to unionize in 1975, and, despite decades of negotiations, the 1,400 workers still have no contract.
"What good is the right to organize if farm workers never get a contract?" said Marc Grossman, the union's chief spokesman. "The right to organize is not supposed to be just an academic exercise."
The bill would be the first amendment to the Agricultural Labor Relations Act, the landmark 1975 law that made California the first state to give farm workers the right to unionize and bargain collectively. Farm workers are not covered by the National Labor Relations Act.
Cesar Chavez, the union's founder, was the driving force behind the law, and union officials say a Davis veto of the current bill would anger many Hispanics who revere Mr. Chavez.
"We've been given the right to organize, but it's often been ineffective because it often hasn't resulted in collective bargaining agreements that better workers' lives," said Arturo Rodriguez, the union's president, who noted that many farm workers are migrants who earn less than $10,000 a year.
Tom Nassif, president of the Western Growers Association, which represents 3,500 growers, said the union asked the Legislature for help because it was too weak and its leaders were too inexperienced to get what they wanted at the bargaining table.
Under Mr. Chavez in the 1970's, the union had 100,000 members. But after years of internal feuding and after many growers refused to sign contracts, membership fell to 20,000 by 1993, the year Mr. Chavez died. With the union now headed by Mr. Rodriguez, who is Mr. Chavez's son-in-law, membership has inched up to 27,000.
Mr. Nassif said the bill was dangerous for growers. "It would probably send most of the farmers on whom this would be imposed out of business," he said. "Agriculture is the No. 1 industry in the state with the No. 1 economy. So why would you change a law that would hurt the most important industry?"
Jesus Torres, a worker at Pictsweet Mushroom Farms in Ventura County, said the last thing workers wanted was to drive their employers out of business.
"We ask only for what is just," Mr. Torres said. "We would never try to stop a unionized grower from being successful."
For the union, Pictsweet is Exhibit A for the need for arbitration. Its workers voted to unionize in 1975 and had a contract until 1987, when a Tennessee company, United Foods, bought the operation. Since then, the workers have had no contract.
Pictsweet workers said they repeatedly asked the company to improve wages and health benefits and to start a pension plan to match those at other mushroom farms with union contracts.
"I don't think they want a contract ever," said Fidel Andrade, a Pictsweet worker who was reinstated last month after state officials found that a manager had illegally fired him for being a union activist. "I think they want to get rid of the union."
Pictsweet officials declined to comment about the dispute.
Last Monday, the state Assembly passed the arbitration bill, 49 to 22, with almost all Democrats supporting and almost all Republicans opposing. Today the Senate, which originally approved the legislation in May, passed a new version, 22 to 10, also largely along party lines, that matches the Assembly's language.
Under the bill, if the two sides fail to reach an agreement within 90 days, either side can ask for a mediator. If mediation brings no deal within 30 days, either side can ask for binding arbitration by a neutral party.
Some labor leaders say the bill could serve as a model for unions nationwide because workers across the private sector have not obtained a contract one-third of the times they have voted to unionize.
Union officials predict that the legislation will pressure employers, who dread having a contract imposed, to become serious about negotiating. But growers say the legislation will hinder bargaining.
"The union's going to come in with some outrageous demands," Mr. Nassif said, "and the arbitrator is going to find some way to cut the baby in half. You'll have the unions asking for many things they know they can't get."
Mr. Davis has 12 working days to sign the bill. Several farm workers are holding a vigil outside the Capitol until he acts.
Russ Lopez, a spokesman for the governor, said Mr. Davis had a "great relationship with the farm workers," but also had "some concerns" about the bill.
"It's a delicate balance, and he's well aware of that," Mr. Lopez said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Farm workers lined up to enter the California Capitol on Monday, above, and held a vigil yesterday, left, to encourage Gov. Gray Davis to sign a bill to make it easier to negotiate union contracts with growers. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (96%); AGRICULTURE (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VETO (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) AGRICULTURE; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR; CONTRACTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MIGRANT LABOR 

COMPANY: D'ARRIGO BROS CO (53%); D'ARRIGO BROTHERS OF MASSACHUSETTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (53%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (53%); SIC5148 FRESH FRUITS & VEGETABLES (53%)

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); CHAVEZ, CESAR (1927-93) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SALINAS, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



199 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: The City's Hunger Crisis 

 BODY:
Long hidden by the puffed-up image of abundance, a crisis of hunger in New York City has been worsened by rising unemployment and underemployment since Sept. 11. According to the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, more than one million city residents depend on hard-pressed food pantries and soup kitchens for their basic needs. One-quarter of them are from households with one or more members who have jobs but not enough income to survive. They have turned to charity because all else has failed them. 
 In this picture, one major failure has been the city's handling of the food stamp program. More than 800,000 low-income New Yorkers get food stamp assistance, but there are at least that many, by conservative estimates, who do not get food stamps even though they could qualify. From May 2001 to May 2002, as the economy faltered and the use of food stamps increased across the nation and in the rest of New York State, the city's recipients decreased by 2 percent. 
 The compassion gap had its roots in the administration of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, which never appreciated what an economic boon the program could be for the city. The federal government pays all food stamp benefits and half the cost of administering the program; the city and state pay the rest. But the benefit to the city, at an average $94 a month per recipient, far outweighs the expense. The Community Food Resource Center, a not-for-profit group that studies issues of poverty, estimates that the city is losing $1 billion a year by not trying to make sure that everyone who qualifies for food stamps receives them.
The numbers of people receiving food stamp aid increased slightly during the first six months after Mayor Michael Bloomberg took office, but have again gone down in recent weeks, perhaps because of insufficient outreach efforts and unduly complicated procedures required to apply for benefits.
Verna Eggleston, commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, exacerbated the situation when she adopted the ideologically driven decision by her predecessor, Jason Turner, and rejected the opportunity to extend food stamp benefits for some 24,000 jobless and childless New Yorkers, who are now limited to three months' assistance in any three-year period. The waiver, offered by the federal government to help parts of the country with insufficient employment opportunities, was accepted by two dozen other regions of the state, including several with better employment outlooks than New York City's. 
Ms. Eggleston's agency has withdrawn for now a proposal to drastically cut city funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program, which helps food banks. But Mr. Bloomberg and his team should see hunger for what it is, a problem that threatens to become a millstone as the city tries to emerge from the fiscal depths. A well-administered food stamp program will not only lift the neediest New Yorkers to more self-sufficiency, it will provide much-needed revenues for the city. Most important, it will help end a heartless approach to a shameful situation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (93%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); HIJACKING (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); NUTRITION (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); TERRORISM (72%); POVERTY RATES (67%) FOOD; FOOD STAMPS; DIET AND NUTRITION; EDITORIALS; WELFARE (US); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (57%) HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) EGGLESTON, VERNA (ADMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 



200 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Many Are Wondering if Eisner Can Reverse Course at Disney 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: BURBANK, Calif., Aug. 8 

 BODY:
To hear Michael D. Eisner, the chairman of the Walt Disney Company tell it, recent talk of the company's sagging share price and discontent among a select group of board members is so much background noise in the marketplace.
 "Nothing is taken frivolously," Mr. Eisner said in an interview in his office here. "But I don't take it as a No. 1 concern." 
 Discussions with board members about things like share price and management issues are normal, he said, especially with Roy Disney, the nephew of the company's founder. And as if to prove all was well with Disney despite the share price hitting an eight-year low this week, a staff member appeared with a research report that said Disney's stock would be an exceptional performer in the next 12 months. 
"We think we are in a fantastic spot," Mr. Eisner said.
Now, if only the rest of the world agreed. Disney shocked Wall Street last week when the company said that fiscal fourth-quarter profit would be lower than expected because of lackluster theme park attendance. Two Wall Street credit rating agencies then issued warnings that the company's long-term debt could be reviewed for a downgrade. The ABC network remains troubled and the company's profitable relationship with Pixar is up for renegotiation next year. Even the good news -- Disney's "Signs" was No. 1 at the box office last weekend -- has failed to muster much excitement. 
The question going through many people's minds these days is whether Mr. Eisner, who has been chief executive of Disney for 18 years, has the wherewithal to turn the company around. To be sure, some board members as well as investors are unhappy with the stock price decline and have expressed their concern privately to Mr. Eisner. Among them are Mr. Disney and Stanley Gold, whose Shamrock Holdings is the investment arm for the Disney family. The pair is pressing Mr. Eisner to shore up ABC and settle on a succession plan, said three people close to the board. None returned calls seeking comment. 
Disney's share price, which traded at a historic high of $43.64 on April 28, 2000, closed today at $14.50, almost half of its 52-week high. According to one investment banker, a joke going around Wall Street was that the Texas investors Sid and Lee Bass, along with their father, Perry, who sold almost $2 billion of Disney stock at $15 a share last year to help pay off margin loans, "now look like geniuses." 
Mr. Eisner has been taken to task by the news media for poor stock performance for months, even years. But according to two people close to the board, Mr. Gold is trying to tap into the discontent of other investors in what might end as a power struggle involving Mr. Gold -- aided Mr. Disney -- and Mr. Eisner over Disney's future direction.
Mr. Gold has not addressed his concerns with other board members, these people said. And one person suggested that the reason for the outcry from the Disney family was that family members had leveraged their Disney stock to make other investments and that, having seen the price stock plummet, they might be subject to a margin call and be forced to sell. A person close to the family said they were prepared to cover a margin call if it happened. "We are on the ragged edge," said the person.
Several board members expressed their continued support for Mr. Eisner, chalking up Disney's problems to the recession and the downturn in media stocks. "I have confidence in the management," said a board member, the Rev. Leo O'Donovan, in a telephone interview from Maine where he was vacationing. "Beyond that I can't second-guess what other people say."
But some who have watched the stock flag compared with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average are not so sanguine. "Management does not give me comfort they will manage through this with any aplomb," said Scott Reamer, a money manager at Union Tree Capital, which invests in media stocks but has no investment in Disney. 
Disney, which has been criticized for having a weak board, had announced steps to bolster its board practices, including shrinking the size of its board. "Clearly someone has to start putting down accountability standards for Mr. Eisner," said Richard Koppes, a lawyer who advises companies on corporate governance. "I think the company is going to get a lot of attention in the coming proxy season." But Mr. Eisner said critics had only to consider that Disney had not had the same accounting scandals as other companies. "The most important thing about a board is its character," he said.
Many critics of the company chide the board for letting Mr. Eisner stay too long. One story that has been widely circulated at Hollywood parties and confirmed by a board member who was there says that Mr. Eisner had dinner with a handful of senior executives and board members in early summer, and when someone casually asked him who could succeed him he mentioned two Disney executives, Tom Staggs, the chief financial officer, and Robert Iger, the president.
Mr. Eisner declined to comment about who might succeed him. But several names have been the subject of rumors in Hollywood lately, including Viacom's president, Mel Karmazin; Howard Stringer, chief executive of the Sony Corporation of America; and, more recently, Jeffrey Katzenberg, who used to work at Disney and whose tenure ended in a bitter lawsuit. None of the men returned calls seeking comment. According to two board members, the board is not looking to replace Mr. Eisner.
Whatever the machinations in the corporate suite, investors seem unsure of the company's immediate future. Large investors "were selling out this week because they do not know where the stock is going," Mr. Reamer said. 
One concern is that if the theme parks, which are huge cash generators but also have high fixed costs, do not rebound quickly Disney's cash position could be affected and, if the company does have to borrow, it could face higher interest rates. Mr. Staggs of Disney said the company managed its long-term debt conservatively, and "there is no short-term liquidity problem."
ABC's prime-time problems are well documented. But Mr. Eisner said the company had taken steps to improve the network's performance, including an agreement to repackage the popular cable show, "Monk," which Disney developed, on ABC and a deal for HBO to develop new shows for the network. 
Mr. Eisner insists that the company's film division has signed a handful of deals with producers and there are more to come. But investors are concerned over Disney's profitable contract with Pixar, the maker of animated films, which ends in 2006. According to a report prepared by a Morgan Stanley analyst, Richard Bilotti, Pixar can begin negotiating a new contract with Disney or another studio after it delivers the film "Finding Nemo" next summer.
One scenario being considered by Pixar, said one person close to the company, is a venture in which Pixar finances and markets its own movies and Disney only distributes them, earning a 10 percent stake of revenues in return. That is a far cry from the 50 percent stake Disney now gets.
Mr. Eisner said he had not had conversations with Pixar, but that "we value our relationship." Still, he added, "our facilities are not for rent."

GRAPHIC: Photos: SAYING GOODBYE TO THE MAGIC KINGDOM? -- Michael D. Eisner, Disney chairman, is said to be under pressure to shore up ABC and settle on a succession plan. Investors grumbled as Disney's share price hit an eight-year low this week. (Photographs by Associated Press; illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Shrinking Empire"The stock value of Walt Disney, the worlds second largest media company, has plummeted while profits of its four major divisions have been decreasing. Graph shows the Walt Disney Company's stock price since 2000. YESTERDAY: $14.50 SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME Nine months ended in June each year, millions of dollars CONSUMER PRODUCTS'01: $314'02: Change$312 from same period in '01: 0.6% STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT (MOVIES)'01: 381'02: 198Change from same period in '01: 48.0% PARKS AND RESORTS'01: 1,273'02: 934Change from same period in '01: 26.6% MEDIA NETWORKS (TV)'01: 1,410'02: 839Change from same period in '01: 40.5% (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; company reports)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MOVIE REVENUES (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); FILM (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%) BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; SHAMROCK HOLDINGS 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: LEE BASS (50%) EISNER, MICHAEL D; GOLD, STANLEY; DISNEY FAMILY; DISNEY, ROY; HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002 

 
