

1 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Companies Settle Cigarette Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
Two Canadian tobacco companies agreed to pay criminal fines and civil penalties totaling about 1.15 billion Canadian dollars after admitting Thursday that they had aided cigarette smugglers.
 An eight-year investigation of Imperial Tobacco Canada and Rothmans, Benson & Hedges by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police covered events beginning in the late 1980s. At that time, high Canadian taxes intended to discourage smoking prompted a wave of cigarette smuggling from the United States that continued for several years. 
 Under the settlement reached with the federal government and all of Canada's provinces, the companies acknowledged in a guilty plea on Thursday that they had known that cigarettes sold to wholesalers in the United States were swiftly returned to Canada for sale on the black market.
 The exported cigarettes were shipped tax-free to the United States. Had Canadian taxes been paid on these cigarettes from the two companies, as well as from one other producer, the government would have received 3 billion to 10 billion Canadian dollars, by some estimates.
 ''These represent the largest criminal fines and civil settlements in Canadian history,'' Gordon O'Connor, the minister of national revenue, said in Levis, Quebec. ''The companies have accepted their actions and have agreed to a comprehensive settlement package.''
 Much of the cigarette smuggling took place through a Mohawk Indian reservation that spans the international border along the St. Lawrence River near Massena, N.Y. 
 Speaking from Montreal, Catherine Doyle, a spokeswoman for Imperial, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco, said the settlement provided the company with a ''certain amount of stability going forward.''
 Immediately after the guilty plea, Rothmans, a holding company that controls 60 percent of Rothmans, Benson & Hedges, said it had agreed to be acquired by Philip Morris International of New York for 2 billion Canadian dollars ($1.95 billion). Philip Morris owns the remaining 40 percent of Rothmans, Benson & Hedges. 
 If approved by Rothmans's shareholders, the deal would remove the last publicly traded tobacco company from Canadian markets.
 While the offer from Philip Morris was contingent on the smuggling case being resolved, Barry Joslin, a spokesman for Rothmans, which is based in Toronto, said the two announcements were coincidental.
 ''If there had been no bid, would we have settled? Yes,'' Mr. Joslin said.
 Francois Damphousse, a director of the Non-Smokers' Rights Association, which lobbies for tobacco restrictions, welcomed the admissions from the two companies but said he was dismayed that, under the settlement, no executives from either company would be convicted or jailed.
 Rothmans, Benson & Hedges was fined 100 million Canadian dollars and Imperial Tobacco 200 million Canadian dollars in the criminal actions. The rest of the penalties are a civil settlement. About 400 million to 450 million Canadian dollars of those civil penalties will be spread over 15 years, with some payments linked to future revenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gordon O'Connor, a tax official, said two companies would pay the largest criminal fines and civil settlements in Canada's history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLEMENT ALLARD/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO MFG (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); APPROVALS (61%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (90%); IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC (85%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (74%); ROTHMANS BENSON & HEDGES INC (58%)

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (90%); BTI (JSE) (90%); BATS (LSE) (90%); IMT (LSE) (85%); PMI (SWX) (74%); PM (PAR) (74%); PM (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



2 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Strong International Results Lift Goodyear's Profit

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Goodyear Tire and Rubber posted a better-than-expected jump in quarterly earnings on Thursday as strength internationally overcame pressure from the downturn in the North American auto market. 
 Goodyear, the largest American tire maker, said that price increases and its focus on selling a higher percentage of more expensive tires more than offset a rise in raw material costs.
 Like other suppliers to the North American auto market, the company was pressured by automakers' production cuts during the quarter. High gas prices also had an impact on demand for its less expensive tires.
 Goodyear said it was confident it would be able to navigate the near-term economic challenges, especially in North America.
 Goodyear's second-quarter net income rose to $75 million, or 31 cents a share, from $56 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 6.5 percent, to $5.24 billion.
 Earnings from continuing operations rose to $75 million, or 31 cents a share, from $29 million, or 14 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding one-time items, Goodyear reported earnings of 66 cents a share from continuing operations. Analysts' average forecast was 60 cents, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Goodyear shares closed up 7 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $19.63 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); TIRE MFG (90%); TIRES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%)

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (95%); GT (NASDAQ) (95%); GT (BRU) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (95%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (95%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (95%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (95%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



3 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS DOVER, TENN.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: A Small Town Where the Lakes Loom Large

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
WHEN you want to see the judge in Dover, the seat of Stewart County in northwestern Tennessee, it's best to start at Brigham Hardware.
 Andy Brigham, like many who have settled in this small town, has found a place that affords him more than a single pursuit -- he owns the hardware store and is the judge of the Stewart County General Session and Juvenile Court.
 ''At the risk of sounding provincial or stereotypical, it is kind of a neat place to live,'' Judge Brigham said.
 ''Andy's store is where you go to find out what's going on. Unless, that is, if you come out here,'' said Rickie D. Joiner, who is the co-owner of J-R's Smokehouse BBQ, and -- oh, yes -- also the elected mayor of Stewart County. Another officeholder, Lesa Fitzhugh, is the mayor of the town of Dover and owns a beauty shop. 
 Most people don't seem to mind this commercial-political double-dipping and, in fact, it even seems attractive to those who have bought second homes in the area.
 ''We love that it is a sleepy little town where the judge or the mayor has time for you, even if it is just to talk about the weather,'' said Dr. Price Hopson, 64, who began visiting the area with his parents when he was 8 and who bought a second home here with his wife, Kay.
 Dr. Hopson, a retired pediatric dentist who lives in Clarksville, about an hour's drive to the east, now works part-time at the health department in Dover. ''It is that kind of place,'' he said. ''It is so beautiful and the pace of life is so comfortable that you just want to give back something.''
 Dover was the site of the first major Union victory of the Civil War, when Brig. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant captured Fort Donelson on the Cumberland River in February 1862. In the 1940s, the first of a series of Tennessee Valley Authority dams on the Tennessee River created Kentucky Lake, and in 1964 another dam created Lake Barkley, putting Dover in the heart of a recreation area. 
 ''There may be no fine restaurants and no symphony, but if you like the outdoors, mountain-bike trails, hunting, fishing, all the things with lakes and rivers, this is your place,'' said Judge Brigham.
 The Scene
 Laurisa Goss is another multi-hat type -- she sells real estate for Patty Page Properties and heads the local Humane Society. Ms. Goss, 30, came to the area on a vacation from her home in Indiana nine years ago and never left. From her home in an isolated part of Stewart County, she takes a ferry across an inlet to eliminate much of what would be a 45-minute drive to Dover. ''Seventy-five cents a day, but you could ride back and forth looking at the scenery all day if you wanted to,'' she said.
 William McKenna, 62, who lives in Columbia, about 100 miles away, but spends weekends at his second home in Dover, said he moved there in part because of the local history.
 ''You walk around the shores and you can pick up those arrowheads, or maybe something from the Civil War battles,'' he said. ''Then you go over to the hardware store to listen to the gossip or maybe find a lawyer.''
 Judge Brigham may be that lawyer. He grew up in Dover, where his family has lived since the end of the 19th century. Wanting to escape an area he thought was too remote, he attended college and law school in Knoxville and practiced for a time in Chattanooga. But when his father became ill, he came back to run the store.
 ''I miss some of the sophistication of the city, but you can't beat the people here and the beauty of the lakes,'' he said.
 Most people come to Stewart County to have access to the water, much of which is on government land, from Fort Donelson National Battlefield to Land Between the Lakes National Recreation Area to Paris Landing State Park to Cross Creeks National Wildlife Refuge. Summers can be hot, with many days near triple-digits in temperature and with high humidity. 
 The more popular times tend to be spring and fall, during more primary hunting and fishing seasons.
 Pros
 Real estate is inexpensive, even by the standards of the mid-South. The area is not crowded, taxes are low and there is little crime, according to F.B.I. statistics. Much of the lakes' shores are controlled by the Army Corps of Engineers, which limits where docks can be, but there are numerous public launches in the county.
 Cons
 Because of the expanse of the lakes, roads are circuitous, and sometimes getting across what seems like a small expanse of water requires many miles of driving. There are few big-city-type amenities; those needing fancy restaurants or major shopping are out of luck. 
 The Real Estate Market
 Teresa Howell, an agent at Spotlight Properties in Dover, said she was excited about the project to widen Route 79, coming from Clarksville, to four lanes. People ''will certainly be able to get here more quickly and see what a beautiful area is so close,'' Ms. Howell said. 
 Pete and Donna Borris take that trip almost every weekend. Mr. Borris, 62, has a marine dealership in Clarksville, so he knows lakes and water sports.
 ''My wife just wanted a motor home, but here were these lakes, pristine and friendly, not far away,'' Mr. Borris said. Four years ago they bought a 92-foot-by-92-foot lot near a lake for $56,000, and it has appreciated slightly, he said. They had a 1,500-square-foot, two-bedroom cabin built for another $150,000, and he and his wife designed the furniture, and made some of it. ''It's rustic, but that is what we wanted,'' he said.
 While there are a couple of million-dollar properties -- five bedrooms or more on multi-acre lots on hills overlooking the lakes -- the average properties are much more reasonable, said Ms. Goss of Patty Page Properties. She said open land will usually sell for between $1,500 and $2,500 an acre, the higher price for plots with access to the water.
 She said since prices were already low, they had not been affected by the country's economic downturn, and properties do not generally stay on the market more than a few months. About a quarter of the homes in the area have part-time owners, she said.
 In the Leatherwood area just outside Dover on the south shore of Kentucky Lake, new construction ranges from $130,000 for a two-bedroom, 1,100-square-foot house to $270,000 for a 4,000-square-foot, four-bedroom home with access to the lake, Ms. Goss said.
 William and Virginia McKenna paid $340,000 for a 4,000-square-foot, five-bedroom, 22-year-old custom log cabin last winter. ''There are decks and water access. It is just spectacular,'' said Mr. McKenna. ''I've lived all over -- Phoenix, the Midwest, the East. You couldn't touch this for twice or three times or more than that anywhere there. We're ecstatic.''
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 1,442, according to the 2000 census.
 SIZE 3.8 square miles. 
 WHERE Dover is about 80 miles northwest of Nashville. Clarksville, about 30 miles to the east, has the Montgomery County Regional Airport, but major carriers use Nashville International Airport.
 WHO'S BUYING People who are looking for quiet lakes and wooded areas within a relatively short drive. Memphis, Nashville and Evansville, Ind., are all within four hours.
 WHILE YOU ARE LOOKING The Sunset Motor Inn (314 Highway 79, 931-232-5102; www.parislanding.com/sunset--motor--inn.htm) overlooks Lake Barkley on the eastern edge of Dover. All rooms have views of the water. Double rooms are $52 a night, including tax. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE WATER: Lake Barkley, which was created in 1964, helped make Dover, Tenn., a popular recreation area.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER BERKEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Dover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ANIMAL WELFARE (69%); RIVERS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); LAKES (66%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (60%); JUVENILE COURTS (56%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



4 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: PAKISTANIS AIDED ATTACK IN KABUL, U.S. OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and ERIC SCHMITT; David Rohde contributed reporting from New York, and Somini Sengupta from New Delhi.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
American intelligence agencies have concluded that members of Pakistan's powerful spy service helped plan the deadly July 7 bombing of India's embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, according to United States government officials.
 The conclusion was based on intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack, the officials said, providing the clearest evidence to date that Pakistani intelligence officers are actively undermining American efforts to combat militants in the region. 
 The American officials also said there was new information showing that members of the Pakistani intelligence service were increasingly providing militants with details about the American campaign against them, in some cases allowing militants to avoid American missile strikes in Pakistan's tribal areas. 
 Concerns about the role played by Pakistani intelligence not only has strained relations between the United States and Pakistan, a longtime ally, but also has fanned tensions between Pakistan and its archrival, India. Within days of the bombings, Indian officials accused the Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI, of helping to orchestrate the attack in Kabul, which killed 54, including an Indian defense attache. 
 This week, Pakistani troops clashed with Indian forces in the contested region of Kashmir, threatening to fray an uneasy cease-fire that has held since November 2003. 
 The New York Times reported this week that a top Central Intelligence Agency official traveled to Pakistan this month to confront senior Pakistani officials with information about support provided by members of the ISI to militant groups. It had not been known that American intelligence agencies concluded that elements of Pakistani intelligence provided direct support for the attack in Kabul.
 American officials said that the communications were intercepted before the July 7 bombing, and that the C.I.A. emissary, Stephen R. Kappes, the agency's deputy director, had been ordered to Islamabad, Pakistan's capital, even before the attack. The intercepts were not detailed enough to warn of any specific attack.
 The government officials were guarded in describing the new evidence and would not say specifically what kind of assistance the ISI officers provided to the militants. They said that the ISI officers had not been renegades, indicating that their actions might have been authorized by superiors. 
 ''It confirmed some suspicions that I think were widely held,'' one State Department official with knowledge of Afghanistan issues said of the intercepted communications. ''It was sort of this 'aha' moment. There was a sense that there was finally direct proof.'' 
 The information linking the ISI to the bombing of the Indian Embassy was described in interviews by several American officials with knowledge of the intelligence. Some of the officials expressed anger that elements of Pakistan's government seemed to be directly aiding violence in Afghanistan that had included attacks on American troops.
 Some American officials have begun to suggest that Pakistan is no longer a fully reliable American partner and to advocate some unilateral American action against militants based in the tribal areas. 
 The ISI has long maintained ties to militant groups in the tribal areas, in part to court allies it can use to contain Afghanistan's power. In recent years, Pakistan's government has also been concerned about India's growing influence inside Afghanistan, including New Delhi's close ties to the government of Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president.
 American officials say they believe that the embassy attack was probably carried out by members of a network led by Maulavi Jalaluddin Haqqani, whose alliance with Al Qaeda and its affiliates has allowed the terrorist network to rebuild in the tribal areas. 
 American and Pakistani officials have now acknowledged that President Bush on Monday confronted Pakistan's prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, about the divided loyalties of the ISI. 
 Pakistan's defense minister, Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar, told a Pakistani television network on Wednesday that Mr. Bush asked senior Pakistani officials this week, '' 'Who is in control of ISI?' '' and asked about leaked information that tipped militants to surveillance efforts by Western intelligence services. 
 Pakistan's new civilian government is wrestling with these very issues, and there is concern in Washington that the civilian leaders will be unable to end a longstanding relationship between members of the ISI and militants associated with Al Qaeda. 
 Spokesmen for the White House and the C.I.A. declined to comment for this article. Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, did not return a call seeking comment. 
 Further underscoring the tension between Pakistan and its Western allies, Britain's senior military officer said in Washington on Thursday that an American and British program to help train Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas had been delayed while Pakistan's military and civilian officials sorted out details about the program's goals.
 Britain and the United States had each offered to send about two dozen military trainers to Pakistan later this summer to train Pakistani Army officers who in turn would instruct the Frontier Corps paramilitary forces. 
 But the British officer, Air Chief Marshal Sir Jock Stirrup, said the program had been temporarily delayed. ''We don't yet have a firm start date,'' he told a small group of reporters. ''We're ready to go.'' 
 The bombing of the Indian Embassy helped to set off a new deterioration in relations between India and Pakistan. 
 This week, Indian and Pakistani soldiers fired at each other across the Kashmir frontier for more than 12 hours overnight Monday, in what the Indian Army called the most serious violation of a five-year-old cease-fire agreement. The nightlong battle came after one Indian soldier and four Pakistanis were killed along the border between sections of Kashmir that are controlled by India and by Pakistan.
 Indian officials say they are equally worried about what is happening on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border because they say the insurgents who are facing off with India in Kashmir and those who target Afghanistan are related and can keep both borders burning at the same time.
 India and Afghanistan share close political, cultural and economic ties, and India maintains an active intelligence network in Afghanistan, all of which has drawn suspicion from Pakistani officials. 
 When asked Thursday about whether the ISI and Pakistani military remained loyal to the country's civilian government, Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, sidestepped the question. ''That's probably something the government of Pakistan ought to speak to,'' Admiral Mullen told reporters at the Pentagon. 
 Jalaluddin Haqqani, the militia commander, battled Soviet troops during the 1980s and has had a long and complicated relationship with the C.I.A. He was among a group of fighters who received arms and millions of dollars from the C.I.A. during that period, but his allegiance with Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda during the following decade led the United States to sever the relationship. 
 Mr. Haqqani and his sons now run a network that Western intelligence services say they believe is responsible for a campaign of violence throughout Afghanistan, including the Indian Embassy bombing and an attack on the Serena Hotel in Kabul earlier this year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan and Indian officials removed a body from the Indian Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, after a bombing there on July 7.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani of Pakistan visited Washington this week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); ESPIONAGE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); INDIA (95%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



5 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Expert Panel Concludes Indian Point Nuclear Plant Is Safe, but a Little Untidy in Spots

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
A panel of experts hired by the owners of the Indian Point plant in Westchester County to assess the safety of its nuclear reactors has found that while the plant is safe, its relationships with its neighbors are ''unhealthy,'' and parts of the place look so run down that it shakes public confidence. 
 The four-month, $4 million study by a panel of 12 outside experts was an unusual exercise paid for by the plant's owner, Entergy Nuclear, as a way to increase public confidence as it seeks to extend the licenses on the two reactors. 
 The panel's report said that in many areas, the plant compared favorably with ''top-performing plants'' around the country. But it also said Entergy had not spent enough time establishing relationships of trust with local elected officials, and had even cut back on the number of people assigned to work with local governments on emergency planning. 
 Westchester County's government has boycotted some emergency planning activities involving the plant, at times arguing that no safe evacuation is possible and that the plant should close. 
 Coincidentally on Thursday, a panel of administrative law judges at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said it had decided that 15 arguments raised by opponents of the extension of the licenses were worthy of a full hearing. That decision is nearly certain to make Indian Point's license extension process the most drawn-out of its type. 
 The judges agreed to hear arguments by New York State that Entergy lacks a thorough program for managing the aging of the two reactors, and that Entergy had underestimated the cost of a cleanup of radiation off site, if an accident were to occur. It rejected New York's arguments that the plant is vulnerable to a terrorist attack. The state is appealing that rejection in court. 
 Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, said his office would ''fight tooth and nail against the relicensing of Indian Point.''
 The license for Indian Point 2 expires in 2013, and the license for Indian Point 3 in 2015, but both licenses are automatically extended until the commission issues its ruling. The other reactor, Indian Point 1, closed in 1974.
 Westchester County also opposes the relicensing, but the county's director of emergency planning, Anthony W. Sutton, said he was encouraged by the independent panel's report. He and about 15 other local officials were briefed on it for more than two hours on Thursday morning. 
 ''We went into this kind of tongue-in-cheek,'' he said. ''Many people were questioning the integrity of the panel if it had been commissioned by Entergy.'' But, he said, ''the report seems to be written in a very frank fashion. It seems that the group had the courage of their convictions and called it what it was.''
 The study said that even the part of emergency preparedness that is within the sole control of the plant owners needs improvement. The emergency operations command center meets regulatory requirements but ''would be suboptimal for extended use in a major emergency.'' 
 With the exception of missing repeated deadlines for installing new battery-powered emergency sirens, the plant meets minimum requirements, the panel observed. 
 Likewise, security preparations meet the regulations but have ''some shortcomings.'' The security team ''has developed sound strategies for dealing with a range of possible security threats including some scenarios well beyond those that the plant is required to prepare for by regulations,'' the report said. Some of the security findings were not made public.
 In a statement, Entergy noted one of the panel's central conclusions, that the plant ''is fundamentally safe and secure,'' and said it was forming a team to fix the problems cited. Entergy said it got an oral briefing on Wednesday and got the written report only on Thursday, shortly before the public release, and that it would offer a formal response within 60 days. 
 The report also said that the reactors' electricity plays ''an important role in the electric reliability and economic health of New York City and the surrounding areas.'' 
 The site, in Buchanan on the east bank of the Hudson River, suffers from ''legacy equipment abandonment and inadequate attention to infrastructure appearance,'' the report said. A co-chairman for the study, James T. Rhodes, a former president and chief executive of the Virginia Electric and Power Company, said, ''The impression you get when you go in the gate is, 'Boy, this is an old facility.' '' 
 The study did not address one of the central issues of relicensing: how well Entergy could cope with aging parts and equipment. It did note another problem of old plants, that many key people are approaching retirement, at a time when the familiar training ground for reactor operators, the Navy's submarine fleet, is turning out fewer veterans. And attracting utility workers to the Hudson Valley is a challenge, the experts said. 
 The report did take on another long-standing worry, a Sept. 11-style aircraft attack. The possibility of significant radiation release in such an attack ''is extremely low to the point I would say of being noncredible,'' said Neil E. Todreas, a co-chairman of the group and a professor of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 But an outside expert who was not on the panel was not reassured. David Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer who works for the Union of Concerned Scientists but who worked for the New York Power Authority in White Plains when the authority owned Indian Point 3, said the section on fire protection after a nuclear accident was ''almost pure fertilizer.'' Studies of fire risk, he said, assumed that the fire was contained to one room and that all the equipment outside that room functioned normally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); JUDGES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); LITIGATION (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); BOYCOTTS (52%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



6 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Oil Subsidies

 BODY:
It is not too surprising that oil prices have retreated from the lofty highs of more than $140 a barrel reached in July. Energy consumption is falling across the industrial world. Americans, the world's most avid gas guzzlers, finally responded to higher prices. They drove about 10 billion miles less in May than they did in the same month last year. They are trading in their S.U.V.'s for more sensible vehicles. As oil prices rose by two-thirds, American oil consumption fell by 900,000 barrels a day between the first quarter of 2007 and the same period of 2008. 
 Unfortunately, a large share of the world's population is not responding to high energy prices. Across the developing world, governments are subsidizing energy, blunting the incentive to conserve by keeping prices low. They are absorbing the savings made by industrial countries and helping to raise oil prices by stoking demand.
 In China, demand rose by 400,000 barrels a day between the first quarter of 2007 and the same period of 2008. Demand in the industrialized nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development fell by one million barrels a day over the same period. In the rest of the world, it grew by 1.1 million barrels.
 Developing countries are growing faster than rich nations, of course. But experts say that government subsidies are exacerbating their unquenchable thirst for oil. Keith Bradsher reported in The Times that China is expected to spend about $40 billion this year in subsidies. Venezuela and Egypt are forecast to spend more than 5 percent of their total economic output on subsidies this year. Indonesia is predicted to spend almost as much, the International Monetary Fund estimates. 
 In all, the I.M.F. says that 48 countries are shielding consumers from high energy prices with subsidies. As a result, while demand for oil in the rich world is expected to fall about 1 percent this year, consumption in emerging and developing countries is forecast to rise 3 percent, according to estimates by I.M.F. economists.
 Governments in developing countries say they must shield the poor from high energy prices. They worry that eliminating subsidies might lead to inflation at a time when prices are rising broadly. But these subsidies are misguided and mainly benefit the well-off, who own big cars and fly in jets, as well as energy-intensive industries, which are not usually those that create most jobs. 
 They are expensive, sucking in public money that might be better used on, say, health care or education. And they get costlier as the price of oil rises, which explains why some countries, including China and India, have allowed domestic energy prices to rise somewhat. 
 Subsidies are a big factor keeping world oil prices high. Outside of the Middle East and some parts of Texas, this is in nobody's interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); JOB CREATION (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



7 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: More Arrows Seen Pointing To a Recession

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Michael M. Grynbaum and Floyd Norris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The American economy expanded more slowly than expected from April to June, the government reported Thursday, while numbers for the last three months of 2007 were revised downward to show a contraction -- the first official slide backward since the last recession in 2001.
 Economists construed the tepid growth in the second quarter, combined with a surge in claims for unemployment benefits, as a clear indication that the economy remains mired in the weeds of a downturn. Many said the data increased the likelihood that a recession began late last year. 
 The next major piece of data comes Friday, when the government is to release its monthly snapshot of the job market. Analysts expect the report to show a loss of 75,000 jobs, signifying the seventh straight month of declines.
 ''We already knew the economy was weak, and now you have both a negative growth number coupled with job losses,'' said Dean Baker, a director of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research. ''There's a lot of real bad times to come.'' 
 President Bush zeroed in on the positive growth in the second quarter -- a 1.9 percent annual rate of expansion, compared with an anticipated 2.3 percent rate. That follows growth of 0.9 percent in the first quarter. He claimed success for the $100 billion in tax rebates sent out by the government this year in a bid to spur spending, along with $52 billion in tax cuts for businesses.
 ''We got some positive news today,'' the president said in West Virginia, addressing a coal industry trade association. ''It's not as good as we'd like it to be but I want to remind you a few months ago, there were predictions, and -- that the economy would shrink this quarter, not grow.''
 But the snapshot of disappointing economic growth released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis on Thursday morning provided no comfort to Wall Street, where a broad sell-off commenced. By the end of business, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 206 points to close at 11,378, a drop of nearly 2 percent.
 The rout may have been explained in part by significant changes the government made to historical data on the profitability of American businesses. According to the revised numbers, corporate profits earned in the United States by American companies rose much more swiftly than previously recorded from 2005 through 2007, making the recent decline appear much steeper.
 That the economy grew at all this spring is a testament to two bright spots -- increased consumer spending fueled by the tax rebates, and the continuing expansion of American exports.
 Consumer spending, which amounts to 70 percent of the economy, grew at a 1.5 percent annual rate between April and June, after growing at a meager 0.9 percent clip in the previous quarter.
 ''Clearly the tax rebates did give some oomph to the economy,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG.
 Exports expanded at a 9.2 percent annual pace in the second quarter, up from 5.1 percent in the first three months of the year. Foreign sales have been lubricated by the weak dollar, which makes American-made goods cheaper on world markets. 
 Adding to the improving trade picture, imports dropped by 6.6 percent, as Americans tightened their spending. Imports are subtracted from economic growth, so the effect was positive.
 Over all, trade added 2.42 percentage points to the growth rate from April to June. Without that contribution, the economy would have contracted.
 But many economists are dubious that consumer spending and exports can keep growing robustly in the face of substantial challenges that are now entrenched in the United States and are gathering force in many other major economies. Japan and much of Europe appear headed into downturns, damping demand for American-made products.
 ''The trade improvement doesn't look sustainable,'' said Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman Sachs in New York. ''In an environment where the global economy is clearly slowing, you're not being able to get that export growth in future quarters.''
 Economists said the sharp drop in imports was largely a function of retailers delaying wholesale purchases in the midst of acute fears about declining American spending power -- a dynamic that will eventually give way to new spending.
 ''This reflects sheer panic by retailers about what the next Christmas buying season is going to look like,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 The tax rebates have mostly been distributed. While the checks appear to have bolstered spending, they have failed to generate activity that is likely to carry on even after the cash has cycled through the economy, say economists. 
 ''They slowed the downturn, but it's clear they didn't really provide any spark,'' Mr. Baker said.
 Employers have not hired much, even as shopping has picked up, cognizant that the rebate checks are a one-time event. Businesses have not shelled out for new machinery. Indeed, investment for equipment fell 3.4 percent in the spring months, dropping for the second consecutive quarter.
 Rather than stockpile more goods, businesses generally tried to sell what they already had on hand. Business inventories declined in the second quarter by $62 billion, a factor that shaved nearly 2 percent off the overall rate of economic growth. 
 As the impact of the rebate checks continues to wear off in the coming weeks, households will be left confronting the same set of troubles that have been dragging on the economy for many months: a deteriorating job market, rising prices for food and gas and plummeting housing values.
 Tens of millions of Americans have in recent years borrowed aggressively against the value of their homes to finance trips to the mall, dinners out, vacations and new cars. As housing values continue to fall, that artery of finance is rapidly constricting.
 Since last summer, when the mortgage crisis provoked panic on Wall Street and many Americans saw access to credit diminish, consumer spending on so-called durable goods like appliances, cars and furniture has been sliding. This spending barely grew in the last three months of 2007, fell at a 4.3 percent clip in the first three months of this year and dropped at a 3 percent pace in the second quarter. 
 Meanwhile, joblessness is growing, with new unemployment claims filed in the week that ended July 26 swelling to 448,000 -- up 44,000 from the previous week. And the purchasing power of wages is being eroded by higher prices for food and energy. Prices paid for goods by Americans surged at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the second quarter, after climbing at a 3.5 percent annual clip over the first three months of the year, according to the report on Thursday.
 Higher prices, fewer paychecks and less household wealth: It is not a recipe for free-spending abandon.
 ''Now, consumers have to sing for their supper,'' said Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. ''Spending growth is slowing and income growth is slowing.''
 Democrats in Congress have begun devising a second package of measures to stimulate the economy, centered on aid to struggling states. But the Bush administration has resisted such proposals, and the political stakes of a presidential election year make compromise especially tricky.
 The Federal Reserve has lowered interest rates in recent months to encourage businesses to invest and households to spend. But with concern growing about high prices -- a trend fueled by lower interest rates -- the Fed may not be able to deliver another round, even if growth slows further.
 ''Looking forward, I don't think there's anything to change the lousy trend for the domestic economy,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at MFR, a research firm. 
 With the last three months of 2007 now officially revised down -- from an initial 0.6 percent annual rate of growth to a 0.2 percent decline -- many economists expect that these tough times will officially be declared a recession. That label is affixed by a panel of economists at a private research institution, the National Bureau of Economic Research, though typically well after the fact.
 President Bush derided such characterizations, along with the academic discipline known as the dismal science.
 ''You can listen to these economists,'' Mr. Bush said in West Virginia. ''On the one hand, they'll say, and then on the other hand. If they had three hands, it would be on the one hand, the second hand and the third hand.''
 But for many, the old debate about whether this is a recession has become purely academic, and eclipsed by the troubles at hand.
 ''All my cousins already know it's a recession,'' said Mr. Barbera, the ITG economist. ''They have the luxury of not having Ph.D.'s. The auto companies are in dire straits, the airlines have been shutting down flights and firing pilots. The truckers are in near hysteria because of the price of diesel. If you round up the usual suspects, this is a bad circumstance. And the word we usually use for a bad circumstance is a recession.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for 2nd quarter estimate Change at annual rate
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Chart details bar graph for 4-week moving average. (pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); HISTORY (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



8 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Fed Fears Wage Spiral That Is Little In Evidence

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The surges this year in oil and food prices could not have come at a worse moment for the typical American worker, who has not had a raise to speak of in this decade.
Workers' leverage is gone. Companies are not creating jobs. Unions that negotiated big wage increases in the 1970s are shadows of their former selves. Cost-of-living adjustments, once commonplace, have disappeared. And the movement of jobs offshore, or the threat of it, has conditioned workers to not even ask for a raise, fearing they will join the millions already laid off.
Still, the Federal Reserve's policy makers -- its governors and the presidents of its regional banks -- are convinced that wage pressures could emerge unexpectedly. That concern, and the idea that wage pressures could lead to yet higher prices and a rising inflation rate, showed up in half-a-dozen interviews with policy makers over the last week.
The policy makers assume that rational human beings, faced with higher prices, eventually demand and get higher pay, despite their apparent lack of leverage. They have built that assumption into their economic models, but they differ sharply on how quickly the wage pressure could resurface, an issue they will once again debate at their next meeting, on Tuesday. 
''The power to bargain for higher wages, a power that we assume was dismantled, may not be so feeble,'' said Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who is the most certain of all that a wage-price spiral is imminent.
If the Fed anticipates a reawakening, organized labor itself certainly does not.
''Real wages, adjusted for inflation, are falling, and there is no sign at all of any change in direction,'' said Ronald Blackwell, chief economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., offering a view shared by Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist for Global Insight, a Wall Street firm, who argues that if prices go up, people will expect not a raise, but ''their standard of living to go down.''
The issue to be debated by policy makers, who recently finished slashing interest rates in response to the credit crisis and the economic downturn, is how quickly wage pressures could resurface.
In the Fed's playbook, employers would grant raises in response to the pressure and then seek to recover the costs of those raises by jacking up prices for a range of everyday items.
Their price increases would be followed, again according to the Fed's playbook, with another round of wage increases, to be followed in turn by another round of price increases, setting off a wage-price spiral that would be difficult for the Fed to undo.
Just such a spiral drove up the inflation rate in the 1970s, during the first great oil price surge, and it haunts the policy makers to this day. Paul Volcker, then the Fed chairman, finally broke the spiral by pushing interest rates ever higher, precipitating the harsh 1981-2 recession.
Inflation and wage demands have remained relatively subdued ever since, but that cannot last in the teeth of another oil price shock, in the view of the current policy makers, who see themselves as Mr. Volcker's spiritual heirs.
Some policy makers are much more convinced than others that a modern-day version of the 1970s experience is not only possible but imminent, and they insist that interest rates must go up now to snuff it out, even at the expense of further weakening an already damaged economy.
Mr. Fisher, who has voted at past meetings to raise rates, sometimes casting a lone vote, argued in an interview that wages are rising for others around the world, particularly in Asia, and ''American workers will react'' by demanding higher pay for themselves.
''I am concerned,'' he said, ''that at some point they will have to be accommodated because they can't afford the rising costs of gasoline, food, utilities'' and other everyday expenses.
That view finds support among economists on Wall Street and at think tanks in Washington.
''If American households are losing ground to inflation,'' said Adam S. Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, ''and they can't resort to automatic cost-of-living adjustments or union power, they'll find some other way, through their demands on the political process and through their expectations.''
Among the Fed's policy makers, the majority argue that the wage pressures that Mr. Fisher and a few others see as imminent are still well down the road. Dealing with a nonexistent problem by raising interest rates now, they say, could push a still growing economy into outright recession.
But those holding this majority view, among them Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, invariably add a significant caveat: They could be wrong. Wage pressures could somehow erupt, catching them off guard. Given that risk, they say, they would prefer to raise interest rates from their present very low level rather than do so too late.
They refer to this precautionary mind set with another bit of jargon, ''anchoring inflationary expectations,'' which means discouraging workers and employers from engaging in a wage-price spiral by persuading them that inflation will not shoot up. In a bit of circular reasoning, they argue that the inflation rate has not risen significantly since the 1970s because workers and employers were convinced the policy makers simply would not let it happen. So they refrain from fomenting wage-price spirals.
Mr. Volcker established the practice of pre-emptive rate increases to ''anchor inflationary expectations,'' and Alan Greenspan, his successor as Fed chairman, embraced it. So has Mr. Bernanke.
For its part, the public expects inflation to subside within the next five years, despite the current oil and food price shocks, according to the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, a barometer closely watched at the Fed.
Partly for this reason and partly because the housing and financial crises are still unresolved, many Wall Street economists predict that the Fed will keep interest rates at their present low level until next year.
But that does not prevent Mr. Bernanke from sounding at times like his putative opponent, Mr. Fisher, who pushes for a rate increase now to bat down wages and inflation, even at the risk of also batting down the economy.
Reiterating a mantra that the Fed's policy makers seem reluctant to abandon, Mr. Bernanke told Congress on July 15: ''We must be particularly alert to any indications, such as an erosion of longer-term inflation expectations, that the inflationary impulses from commodity prices are becoming embedded in the domestic wage-and-price setting process.''
No one at the Fed seems more aware of the economy's fragility than Mr. Bernanke. Trying to save the day, he brought down the federal funds rate to a very low 2 percent in April from 4.75 percent nearly seven months earlier. He engineered special lending operations for financial institutions in trouble. And he acknowledges the decline in labor's bargaining power.
The federal funds rate greatly influences interest rates for mortgages, car loans and much other consumer credit. When it rises, economic activity inevitably slows, and if the funds rate were to rise now, the slowing would be on top of the downturn already in progress.
That would be overkill, said Brian Sack, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed economist. ''We are just not seeing upward pressure on labor costs,'' he said, arguing in effect that the eruption of a wage-price spiral in the near future is as likely as freezing temperatures in July.
''We could be in a world,'' Mr. Sack said, ''where workers will have limited ability to negotiate higher pay and companies will have limited ability to raise prices.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Inflation and Wages Out of Sync'' Inflation and wages rose together through the 1970s in what became the wage-price spiral. In the 1980s, the correlation continued. In recent decades, they have not moved together, but some Fed policy makers fear the spiral may return. (Source: Jared Bernstein (Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010



9 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants to Relive That '70s Horror Show?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Bad enough that the mayor and the governor used crisis language to describe the sorry fiscal state in which New York finds itself. But the really worrisome news this week was word that Studio 54 is back, in a fashion.
 The cable network Showtime said it was planning a new series about the famous nightclub, which for many people epitomized glamour, decadence, self-absorption, tedium -- take your pick. The show's creator, Chad Hodge, told The Hollywood Reporter that the focus would be less on Studio 54 itself than on New York as a whole in the 1970s, when the club came into being. 
 Perhaps the reference should be to ''New York as a hole.'' Let's just say that if you wanted to recreate an era, you could hardly choose a worse one from the city's perspective. The '70s were when we hit bottom and feared we might stay there forever.
 In 1977, the year Studio 54 opened, we had the chaos of a summer blackout and the terror of Son of Sam. By then, we'd had fires consuming Bronx neighborhoods, a subway system veering toward collapse, revelations of systemic police corruption, repeated strikes by city workers and lethal terrorist bombings in Manhattan and at La Guardia Airport.
 It was not a time that many New Yorkers would want to relive, except maybe Yankee fans still basking in the team's three World Series appearances from 1976 to 1978. And we have yet to mention the shattering fiscal crisis of those days, when the city stood at the precipice of municipal bankruptcy.
 Far more than some television show, evocations of that grim financial past are making some New Yorkers gulp hard and wonder if the '70s are making a comeback.
 Gov. David A. Paterson fed the sense of calamity when he took the unusual step the other evening of going live on television because, he said, ''our economic woes are so severe.''
 Quite simply, the governor said, New York had lived beyond its means. The time had come ''to cut up our credit cards,'' he said. ''The era of buy now and pay later and later is over.''
 Yikes! That last line had 1970s written all over it.
 It sounded suspiciously like, albeit less poetic than, Hugh L. Carey's first State of the State Message, delivered days after he became New York's governor, in 1975. Huge budget deficits loomed because of a ''lavish'' style of government that he inherited, Mr. Carey said. His call for belt- tightening came in memorable language. ''Now the times of plenty, the days of wine and roses, are over,'' he said.
 Was Mr. Paterson channeling his inner Carey this week?
 No way, said Errol Cockfield, a spokesman for the governor. This was not, he said, a case of old whines in new bottles. ''We weren't invoking Carey in the speech,'' Mr. Cockfield said, adding that Mr. Paterson had used the credit card and buy-now-pay-later metaphors in the past. ''It's really a construct of his own.''
 That may be. All the same, the similarity in tone to the 1970s was unmistakable to anyone who had kept his ears open back then. Nor is this the only echo of that era reverberating these days.
 Not to make too much of arguably lesser points, but allow us to note that then, as now, the Yankee Stadium that New Yorkers had known for decades was torn apart. Then, as now, Broadway moved up the evening curtain by an hour (though these days it involves one night a week and is done as a convenience for commuters -- not, as was the case years ago, so that they can make a clean getaway before the muggers come out in Times Square).
 Then, as now, New Yorkers felt bedeviled by Iran, same as other Americans. Then, as now, they dealt with the consequences of an unpopular war. Then, as now, they had a president with approval ratings in the subbasement. Then, as now, they had Dick Cheney in a position of power in the White House.
 The good news is that the 1970s, like Studio 54, came to an end.
 Then we moved into the '80s. That was when AIDS became understood as a menace. It was a decade of widespread homelessness, epidemic use of crack cocaine, a rising murder rate, a single-day plunge of 22.6 percent in stock market prices and Bernhard Goetz, the man who, depending on your vantage, was a hero or a villain for shooting four teenagers who hassled him for money in the subway.
 Mr. Goetz, who now goes by Bernard, has been trying to run for a minor political office in Manhattan. He has not had an easy time of it. The point, though, is that he is back in the public eye.
 For what it's worth, consider yourself put on notice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TERRORISM (67%); BOMBINGS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (53%); CORRUPTION (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



10 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Prices May Send A Giants Fan To the Exit

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The 20-page, full-color brochure resembles a stylish sales pitch for a vacation-land time share, which at least entitles purchasers to take off their shoes and go to sleep a few nights each year. 
 What the Giants are mailing to season-ticket holders is an opportunity to merely sit, and sit outside, and occasionally in the bitter cold deep into the night, via a come-on with a cover embossed with a glove hand holding up the Super Bowl trophy through a horizontal blue strip with white block letters.
 ''Own It,'' it says, but here's what that means: ''Own It, or Out.'' 
 Not the trophy, not the team, not so much an uncombed hair on Eli Manning's head. Just what Giants fans believed they had already sacrificed more than enough for -- a seat inside a football stadium, albeit a posh new one that none of them asked for or, considering the consequences, will probably prefer.
 Show football fans the architectural eighth wonder and they'll say, very nice, we will be out here in the parking lot until kickoff, in our metal folding chairs, grilling hot dogs and burgers on grandpa's old hibachi. 
 ''Twenty-five years people are waiting for a seat in Giants Stadium, dying to get in,'' said Lou Palma, who lives in the same town as I do, Montclair, N.J., although we had previously known each other only by reader e-mail. 
 He is 75, a former union lithographer, a gourmet cook by avocation, a passionate sports fan who is furious at the fan-gouging sports world in general and the Giants in particular, with good reason. He is one of the die-hards who got into Yankee Stadium 40 years ago, followed his team to the Yale Bowl and Shea Stadium and stayed in, for the last 32 in Giants Stadium, without complaint.
 ''There is nothing wrong with the place we've been playing in,'' Palma said. ''Why the heck did we have to move in the first place?''
 To keep up with the Eagles, the Redskins and the Jerry Joneses, the Giants would say, even if it means discarding devoted fans, as in the case of Palma, who has resigned himself to the Giants, while still ''we,'' moving next door in two years to a $1.6 billion luxury palace without him.
 Over breakfast this week, he laid the brochure for the purchase of Giants personal seat licenses on the table and said: ''I'm not going to sit here and tell you that football hasn't been important to me and my family, but I don't want to do this and not just because I basically can't afford to. Ethically, it stinks.''
 In some ways, Palma feels as if he raised his adult sons, Mark and Jeff, in Section 112 of the lower stands, bonded with them, cheered with them, jeered with them, from the four choice-location seats that became such prized family heirlooms he had them inserted into his will as part of their inheritance.
 Granted, he got the tickets 40 years ago because he had, during his days in the printing business, struck up a close, enduring friendship with the Giants' long-ago defensive back and current broadcaster, Dick Lynch, who in turn introduced Palma to the late Tim Mara one night at P. J. Clarke's in Manhattan. But Palma never left during the lean years, and might even have talked himself and his sons into cobbling together $700 per ticket per game in the new stadium for the equivalent seats that he said this season will cost $100 per.
 But $80,000 in four installments for the right to pay a staggering ticket markup in the midst of an economic downturn? He could go to Europe and live lavishly, or finance his grandchildren's college educations. After all these years, all the money spent, he was put on the clock, given a month to respond, to peel the sticker containing his personal information, attach it to the application on the interior back cover and surrender to a $371 million fan-fleecing scheme. 
 When I asked Palma about the option to buy lesser seats for a cheaper seat-licensing fee, he shrugged. ''That'll be the boys' decision,'' he said. ''I'm out.''
 In a telephone interview, Mark Palma said he had not yet discussed that with his brother. ''I do want to look at it long-term, and not make it an emotional decision,'' he said. ''But I always assumed we'd have these great seats, and to go sit in the upper deck, well, you start to think, 'I do have a flat-screen TV at home.' 
 ''And I don't think that I'm owed anything, but I do feel for my father. He always believed the Giants and the Maras were about football and the fans. He paved the way for us and he's wanted us to share it with our families. And now, he gets this.''
 He gets a brochure in the mail and turns to Page 6, to a glittering new stadium set against the nighttime Manhattan skyline, with the accompanying caption, ''There is no sports franchise in the world with a greater history than the New York Giants, and no sports franchise has more loyal fans.'' 
 And Lou Palma says, ''Where is their loyalty to me?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Ethically, it stinks,'' Lou Palma, a Giants season-ticket holder, said about higher ticket prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS FANS (88%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



11 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Priority No. 1: Educate Our Kids

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Biggest Issue'' (column, July 29):
 A big thank you to David Brooks. We need to focus on education and, in particular, how to close the educational gap between children who begin life with large human capital resources and those who don't.
 Mr. Brooks cites Barack Obama's focus on early childhood education as a positive start. But before we can rely on schools, we need to make sure that they are places of nurture where children can develop ''motivation levels, emotional stability, self-control and sociability,'' traits that Mr. Brooks mentions. 
 How do we create schools where this can happen? Questions like this are necessary and require an honest and open debate. Martina Forgey Lay 
 Chautauqua, N.Y., July 30, 2008
 The writer is a kindergarten teacher in Alexandria, Va.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks writes that ''the happy era ended around 1970 when America's educational progress slowed to a crawl.'' 
 Richard M. Nixon was president in 1970, and in the almost 40 years since he took office, we have had Republican presidents for all but 12 years. This is not to say that our education problems are all the fault of Republican presidents, but it is to say that their philosophy of unregulated free markets overwhelmed this country's belief in promoting the common good. 
 As a result, support for economic growth for everyone declined, replaced by increased income inequality and the accompanying problems, as noted by Mr. Brooks, that low-income families face today. 
 I believe that the growing inequality leads to the lack of school preparedness by groups low on the economic ladder, as well as to the inability of the United States to keep its education system up to the standards of other advanced nations. Rex Costanzo
 Silver Spring, Md., July 29, 2008
 The writer is an education researcher.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks rightly recognizes that gaps in educational attainment identifiable at age 5 ultimately undermine school success. 
 We knew this when Head Start was founded. We knew it when Head Start was evaluated as effective. We know it now that Head Start has been effectively decimated.
 Rather than rail at preschool gaps, finance programs that resolve them.
 Miriam Cherkes-Julkowski
 Apache Junction, Ariz., July 29, 2008
 The writer is a retired professor of educational psychology at the University of Connecticut.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks comments on the decline in the commitment to education since the 1970s, but he doesn't point out the rise in the emphasis on faith and ideology over the same time period. Coincidence? Tom Schiavetta 
 Dallas, July 30, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right. If you want to choose one issue that will have the biggest effect on our economy and our nation's well-being, choose education. 
 CEOs for Cities, a national network of urban leaders, has calculated that if we can raise college attainment by just one percentage point in each of the country's top 50 metro areas, the nation will realize an annual $50 billion ''talent dividend.'' 
 That is the amount of the House Democrats' proposed economic stimulus package. And education attainment is the stimulus that keeps on giving.
 Mr. Brooks points out that one candidate, Barack Obama, has made early childhood education central to his message and his policy proposals. For all our sakes, we must regain our momentum on what ought to be our national priority. Carol Coletta 
 President and Chief Executive
 CEOs for Cities
 Chicago, July 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right to tie America's rise and vigor to investments in education. That's why I wish he'd also mentioned the passage of the new G.I. Bill, which was signed into law in June. The bill greatly increases college benefits for veterans who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 One of the wisest things we ever did was to consolidate the wartime experience, leadership skills and sense of self-sacrifice of World War II veterans with a college education at taxpayer expense. One of the most foolish (and ignominious) was the callousness we showed the Vietnam War generation.
 Following his point through to its pertinent political conclusion, Mr. Brooks should have called John McCain to task for his opposition to and failure to vote on that bill. Dakin Hart 
 New York, July 30, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); WRITERS (89%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); RICHARD NIXON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



12 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2248 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
JAZZ
 Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
 HOWARD ALDEN AND ANAT COHEN (Thursday) Mr. Alden, a guitarist, and Ms. Cohen, a clarinetist and tenor saxophonist, are both deeply conversant in the conventions of swing and earlier jazz. Just as crucially, they both approach music, in whatever style, as a bright and living thing. At 8 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students. (Nate Chinen)
 MONTY ALEXANDER CARIBBEAN SEXTET (Friday and Saturday) The pianist Monty Alexander, one of Jamaica's proudest musical exports, explores Caribbean groove with a modern jazz twist. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) 
 MICHAEL ATTIAS (Monday) Mr. Attias, a saxophonist with a fondness for inquisitive frictions, celebrates his 40th birthday with two separate but related bands: a quintet including the saxophonist Tony Malaby, the bassists John Hebert and Sean Conly, and the drummer Nasheet Waits (at 9:30 p.m.); and his Nagoya Quartet, with Mr. Waits, Thomas Morgan on bass and Jacob Sacks on keyboards. At 11 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, near North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934, zebuloncafeconcert.com; no cover. (Chinen)
 JIM BLACK'S VEGAN RECIPES (Wednesday) Jim Black is a noncarnivorous drummer whose spirit of polymorphous propulsion draws equally from the wellsprings of noise rock, electronic music and free improvisation. For his part in the Stochastic Brooklyn series, he calls on a network of collaborators, most just as restless and motivated as he is. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 CYRUS CHESTNUT TRIO (Thursday) ''Cyrus Plays Elvis'' (Koch), the most recent album by the pianist Cyrus Chestnut, flogs an obvious gimmick -- let's not call it a concept -- with just a touch of condescension. Any credit for this approach goes to Mr. Chestnut's no-nonsense style, which can deliver even the most overripe sentiment with brightness and soul. (Through Aug. 10.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 JOHN CHIN TRIO (Friday) The pianist John Chin recently released a competent debut, ''Blackout Conception'' (Fresh Sound/New Talent), featuring a quintet with the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner. Here Mr. Chin pares down to a more basic trio, with bass and drums. At 9 and 11:15 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, West Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
 RICHIE COLE QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) The bop-oriented alto saxophonist Richie Cole has a way of lighting a fire among his fellow musicians, and his work with this ensemble, featuring the pianist Don Friedman, should be no exception. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
 HECTOR DEL CURTO'S ETERNAL TANGO ORCHESTRA (Monday) Hector del Curto plays the bandoneon, an accordionlike instrument heard often in the tangos of his native Argentina. His Eternal Tango Orchestra, specializing in a traditional strain of that style, features strings and piano. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)
 JOHN FARNSWORTH (Monday and Thursday) John Farnsworth, a tenor saxophonist, leads a modest but rewarding gig every Thursday at Smoke on the Upper West Side. Next Monday, he also plays at Smalls with the same band: Eddie Henderson on trumpet, Mike LeDonne on piano, Dwayne Burno on bass and Joe Strasser on drums. Monday at 8 and 9:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; no cover, with a $20 minimum. Thursday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)
 FERMENT/FOMENT (Tuesday) This quirkily named and noteworthy new collective consists of musicians well versed in the art of abrasive but slippery group actions: the alto saxophonist Tim Berne, the pianist Craig Taborn, the bassist Michael Formanek and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. An opening set, at 8 p.m., will feature Mr. Formanek's heroically abstract solo improvisations. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 KEN FILIANO QUARTET (Thursday) Ken Filiano, a powerful bassist best known in free-improvising circles, presents his original compositions in this group, which includes Michael Attias and Tony Malaby on saxophones and Michael T. A. Thompson on drums. At 10:30 p.m., the Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, between Houston and Stanton Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681, livingtheatre.org; $10; $7 for students. (Chinen)ROY HARGROVE BIG BAND (Saturday) On his new album, ''Earfood'' (Groovin' High/Emarcy), the trumpeter Roy Hargrove leads his crisp quintet through a program of groove-undergirded hard bop. Here he presents a big band, his other fine working group, with a handful of special guests. At 7 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171, summerstage.org; free. (Chinen)
 JOEL HARRISON (Wednesday) Mr. Harrison is a jazz-trained guitarist and composer, but on his recent album, ''Passing Train'' (Tuition), he steps into the position of a roots-haunted singer-songwriter with a knowing, yearning tone. Here he reconvenes sympathetic partners like the vocalist Jen Chapin, the pianist Henry Hey and the drummer Ben Wittman. At 8 p.m., Banjo Jim's, 700 East Ninth Street, at Avenue C, East Village, (212) 777-0869, banjojims.com; no cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
 HANK JONES 90TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Wednesday and Thursday) The incomparable pianist Hank Jones turned 90 on Thursday, and while he has already celebrated the occasion, it would be churlish to deprive him of another party. And it would be a mistake for any lover of modern jazz piano to miss his Great Jazz Trio, which headlines here and now features the bassist George Mraz and the drummer Lewis Nash. (Through Aug. 9.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $45 and $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 VIC JURIS TRIO (Sunday) Vic Juris, a cool-toned guitarist with a broad harmonic vocabulary, leads a propulsive trio with Jay Anderson on bass and Adam Nussbaum on drums. At 6 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover, but a two-drink minimum. (Chinen) 
 EARL KLUGH (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Klugh is a guitarist with impeccable technique and a style that often tilts toward smooth jazz. Celebrating the recent release of an album called ''The Spice of Life'' (Koch), he leads a combo that features Lenny Price on saxophone. (Through Aug. 10.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. 
 (Chinen)
 LANDON KNOBLOCK QUARTET (Friday) The pianist Landon Knoblock, from Miami by way of Brooklyn, has quietly been making waves for his reflective and lyrical style. He can only help his profile by enlisting musicians like those who appear here: the trumpeter Ron Horton, the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Jeff Davis. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, near Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. (Chinen)WAYNE KRANTZ (Thursday) Mr. Krantz, anace jazz-rock guitarist given to aggressive rhythmic permutations, unveils a new project involving vocals (yes, his own). At 10 p.m., Sullivan Hall, 214 Sullivan Street, near Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 634-0427, sullivanhallnyc.com; $10 in advance, $15 at the door.
 (Chinen)
 LAGE LUND 5 (Friday and Saturday) Lage Lund is an introspective but assertive guitarist who took first place at the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition a few years ago. His effortlessly modern ensemble includes another past winner, the tenor saxophonist Seamus Blake, along with the pianist Aaron Parks, the bassist Ben Street and the drummer Johnathan Blake. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. (Chinen)
 T. S. MONK ON MONK (Friday through Sunday) Thelonious Sphere Monk Jr., a drummer whose taste is less idiosyncratic than his father's, leads a polished hard-bop band with a familiar repertory. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 ARTURO O'FARRILL AFRO-LATIN JAZZ ORCHESTRA (Thursday) Drawing from a strong recent album, ''Song for Chico'' (Zoho), the pianist Arturo O'Farrill and his precision-honed big band perform a program of exuberant pan-Latin grooves. (Through Aug. 10.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30.
 (Chinen)
 ONE FOR ALL (Friday and Saturday) The driving hard-bop of Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers provides a mission and a method for the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander, the trumpeter Jim Rotondi, the trombonist Steve Davis, the pianist David Hazeltine, the bassist John Webber and the drummer Joe Farnsworth. For Saturday's sets the band will welcome a pair of distinguished guests, the tenor saxophonist George Coleman and the pianist Harold Mabern. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $30; $35 on Saturday. (Chinen)
 ARUAN ORTIZ GROUP (Friday and Saturday) Aruan Ortiz, a young Cuban pianist with a modern jazz pedigree, leads a promising ensemble that includes Myron Walden on alto saxophone and bass clarinet, Matt Penman on bass and Eric McPherson on drums. At 9 and 11:30 p.m., Cachaca, 35 West Eighth Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 GREG OSBY QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Greg Osby is an alto saxophonist with a predilection for sharp corners and slippery rhythms, and a record of scouting out serious talent. His bands are usually well worth hearing; this one features the guitarist Nir Felder, the vibraphonist Mike Pinto, the bassist Joseph Lepore and the drummer Hamir Atwal. (Through Aug. 10.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) SONNY ROLLINS (Wednesday) The tenor saxophonist Sonny Rollins, 77, is one of jazz's roaming giants, still capable of heroic live performances. He leads his sturdy working band here in a benefit concert for SummerStage that he'll probably pack with his trademarks: lengthy, exploratory solos; songbook obscurities and not-quite-standards; and at least one unsinkable calypso. At 8 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171, summerstage.org; $32.50. (Chinen)
 BOBBY SANABRIA BIG BAND (Tuesday and Wednesday) On the recent album ''Big Band Urban Folktales'' (Jazzheads), this ensemble tackles classic boleros, contemporary mambos and even a Frank Zappa anthem; the man at the helm is Bobby Sanabria, a percussionist and historian of boundless energies. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. 
 (Chinen)
 MIKE STERN BAND (Monday) The guitarist Mike Stern has a goofily titled recent album -- ''Who Let the Cats Out?'' (Heads Up) -- that features the quite serious electric bass playing of Richard Bona. This engagement features Mr. Bona along with the tenor saxophonist Bob Malach and the drummer Lionel Cordew. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 CEDAR WALTON (Friday through Sunday; Tuesday through Thursday) A broadly experienced and deeply articulate pianist, Mr. Walton knows how to get the most out of a small group like this one, featuring Vincent Herring on alto saxophone. Starting on Tuesday, the fine trombonist Steve Turre joins the crew. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
 MARK WHITFIELD QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Mark Whitfield, an exceptionally proficient post-bop guitarist, has recently been committed to a gig with Chris Botti, the trumpeter and pop star. If that's detrimental to Mr. Whitfield's credibility, it certainly hasn't had an adverse effect on his playing, as he'll seek to prove here. At 9 and 11 p.m., Cachaca, 35 West Eighth Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $15, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 STEVE WILSON QUARTET (Friday) The alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson combines economy and modernity in his playing, and he engages deeply with his supporting cast: Bruce Barth on piano, Ed Howard on bass and Rodney Green on drums. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



13 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Harvesting Money in a Hungry World

BYLINE: By VICTOR DAVIS HANSON. 
Victor Davis Hanson, a former raisin farmer and a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, is the author of ''Fields Without Dreams'' and ''The Land Was Everything.''

DATELINE: Fresno, Calif. 

 BODY:
 THE latest round of global agricultural trade negotiations that began seven years ago in Doha, Qatar, collapsed in acrimony this week in Geneva. While India and China are getting the blame for refusing to reduce import tariffs and farm subsidies, you can assume that trade officials in Europe and the United States are breathing a sigh of relief that they aren't going to have to limit their own protectionism.
 Nothing new here. Nor is it a staggering blow to world trade: the aggregate loss caused by the trade barriers in question is probably no more than $70 billion in a global imported food market of more than a trillion dollars. But what is different this time is a backdrop of soaring food prices that makes all past assumptions seem ossified. It also makes the world's poorest people even more vulnerable when trade bureaucrats in both the wealthy West and rising East make vapid arguments. 
 Usually trade in agricultural produce involves governments' efforts to prop up farmers who claim they will go broke without subsidies and tariffs. Constant improvements in technology, mechanization, plant breeding and farm chemicals have steadily increased food production per acre, and for the last 30 years led to a world that we assumed would be awash in cheap food.
 Yet world prices for wheat, corn, rice, soy, coffee, cotton, dairy products, meats, fruits and vegetables have suddenly reached record levels. Why now? 
 The answer starts with the half-billion new middle-class consumers in China and India who increasingly wish to emulate the rich diet that Westerners take for granted. And they have the cash to buy the food they want on the world market. Despite slowing growth rates, world population is nearing seven billion people and may reach nine billion mouths in less than 40 years. 
 In addition, increases in the cost of oil have sent diesel fuel, fertilizers and farm chemical prices sky-high. Those added costs are now being passed on to consumers. Environmental regulations, water scarcities and urban development continue to cut back arable acreage. Technology and machinery constantly improve, but now only marginally improve on past serial leaps in production. More than one-fifth of the American corn crop is now devoted to ethanol. In short, the era of cheap food, like the age of cheap gas, may be about over.
 The result is a growing revolution in the way we envision the economics of agriculture, and it should be reflected in the efforts of all nations to ensure much freer trade in food. 
 Yet Europe -- usually the self-appointed voice of global moral conscience on international human rights, climate change and poverty -- remains committed to agricultural policies that protect its own farm sector while stymieing farmers abroad. It is past time that the European Union let the market determine what and how its farmers produce, while also allowing its consumers to buy the safest and cheapest food it can, regardless of its origins.
 Here at home Congress recently overrode President Bush's veto to approve a $300 billion, multiyear farm bill awash in subsidy payments regardless of current commodity prices. Yet we all know the tired refrain each time these indefensible farm bills come up for enactment. 
 First, they are transparent election-cycle harvests for farm-state politicians, who have small constituencies but exercise outsized national political clout.
 Second, because such special-interest legislation wins little broad public support, its supporters rely on phony rationalizations if not outright deception. In 1996 the trick was to call billion-dollar subsides the Freedom to Farm Act and vow a phase-out in seven years, a promise that was quickly forgotten. 
 In 2002, the next farm bill piggybacked onto fears following Sept. 11. So the gimmick was to name it the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act -- as if giving millions to corporate wheat farmers might protect us from Al Qaeda. Now with the public worried about gas prices, the latest bill was pushed as the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act.
 Third, all the rationalizations of this Depression-era legislation have become risible. Family farmers -- now less than 1 percent of the population -- disappeared as the farm subsidy industry grew. Indeed the wealthiest corporations now receive the most federal largess. Political considerations, not scarcities or nutrition, explain why crops like sugar and rice are subsidized and lettuce and fresh fruit are not. 
 For decades there has been neither a national interest nor a moral need for farm subsidies. But now in times of soaring world food prices there is not even economic justification. As a brave new world fought it out at the Doha talks, it is growing hungrier by the day. 
 It is understandable that poorer nations are near paranoid in their fear for their own farmers' livelihoods should they import a glut of imported American and European food that is a product of sophisticated economies of scale. But with food shortages looming, all countries should now support open trade in food to encourage as much supply as possible for a hungry planet.
 The best thing that the United States, the beacon of world capitalism, could now do is to stop interfering with its own farmers, let markets and need determine what they grow and how they farm -- and then by such a principled American example persuade the rest of the world to do the same.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); FOOD PRICES (75%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); CHEMICALS (71%); BIOFUELS (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); DIESEL FUEL (62%); ETHANOL (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); QATAR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



14 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Charge Leads MasterCard to a Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
MasterCard posted a second-quarter loss on Thursday because of a charge related to a settlement with a rival, American Express.
 Excluding the charge, profit rose 9 percent, while sales jumped 25 percent on increased spending by cardholders, especially with debit cards. 
 MasterCard, which is based in Purchase, N.Y., said it lost $747 million, or $5.74 a share, from April to June, after the effect of the $1 billion after-tax charge related to the antitrust litigation. Excluding that charge, it earned $276 million, or $2.11 a share, better than analysts' forecast of a profit of $2.02 a share, according to Thomson Financial.
 In the same period last year, MasterCard earned $252.3 million, or $1.85 a share.
 MasterCard and its competitor Visa, unlike most card companies, are not exposed to deteriorating trends in consumer credit because they do not lend money. Rather, they process the transactions made on their branded cards, and the credit is issued by member banks, like Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup.
 MasterCard's revenue surged to $1.2 billion in the second quarter, from $997 million a year earlier. More than five percentage points of that increase stemmed from the dollar's weakening against other currencies. 
 MasterCard's results, like Visa's late Wednesday, indicate that the average American cardholder is turning to debit payments more than credit as the economy weakens. In the United States, gross dollar volume on MasterCard credit and charge cards rose 0.7 percent during the second quarter, but gross dollar volume on MasterCard debit cards shot up 15.8 percent.
 MasterCard's stock fell $26.58 a share, or nearly 10 percent, to $244.15. 
 Shares of Visa, which posted a 41 percent increase in quarterly profit late Wednesday, also slipped Thursday by $5.39 a share to close at $73.06.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LITIGATION (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (95%); VISA INC (92%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (95%); V (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



15 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Profit Data May Explain U.S. Gloom

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Corporate profits earned in the United States rose much more rapidly from 2005 through 2007 than had been earlier reported, making the subsequent fall seem even more precipitous, government figures showed Thursday. 
 The revised figures may help to explain the sense of pessimism that has been reported in surveys of consumers and business executives, said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, an economic research company. Pointing to the previous profit figures, some commentators had suggested there was more gloom than the economic data seemed to justify. 
 First-quarter profits earned in the United States by American companies have fallen 18 percent from their peak, the revised figures show, rather than the 11 percent previously reported. 
 That decline has been partly offset by soaring overseas profits for American companies. On Thursday, the government raised its estimate of those profits in the first quarter, even as it reduced its estimate of profits earned in this country. 
 By the latest measure, first-quarter overseas profits were the highest they have ever been for American companies -- up 25 percent from the third quarter of 2006, when domestic profits peaked. 
 Overseas profits, while important to shareholders, do not reflect the performance of the American economy or the prospects for employment in this country. Surveys show that both business executives and consumers expect declines in jobs in America in coming months.
 The figures show that more than a third of profits earned by American companies are now made overseas. In the first three months of this year, the proportion was 35 percent, nearly twice what it was a decade ago.
 The revised data shows that profits of American companies are down 7 percent over all, rather than the 2 percent previously reported. 
 The revised figures were contained in the revisions of the gross domestic product numbers issued Thursday by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, a part of the Commerce Department.
 Brent R. Moulton, the bureau's associate director for national economic accounts, said the new figures reflected preliminary data from the Internal Revenue Service for 2006, and revised figures for 2005. For 2007 and 2008, the changes reflect assorted revisions in estimates of the performance of various industries.
 Because the figures are largely based on tax returns, the eventual totals are used as clear indicators of overall economic performance of American businesses, both privately owned companies and those owned by shareholders.
 The revised figures indicate that in the third quarter of 2006, when domestic profits of American companies peaked, the annual rate of profits was $1.27 trillion, $100 billion more than had previously been estimated. That figure fell to $1.04 trillion in the first quarter of this year, the lowest rate since the third quarter of 2005.
 By contrast, the overseas profits of American companies came in at an annual rate of $557 billion in the first quarter of 2008, an increase of more than $100 billion from the 2006 quarter.
 The profit figures in the government report represent operating profits, not changes in the value of assets. That policy means that the profit figures for financial industries estimated by the government are now far higher than the ones being reported to shareholders. Mr. Moulton said that write-downs of the value of securities, or write-offs of bad loans -- which have cost banks tens of billions of dollars -- are not included.
 Were they included, it seems certain that the decline in profits earned in the United States by American companies would be even larger than was indicated by the figures released Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



16 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 300 words

 BODY:
SLOW GROWTH The American economy shrank at the end of 2007 and grew less than forecast between April and June, signaling that the country is in worse shape than expected. 
 A BIG LEAP FORWARD No longer content to be the home of low-skilled, low-cost, low-margin manufacturing, Chinese companies are trying to move up the value chain. [A1.]
 INFLATION WORRIES As Federal Reserve policy makers get ready to meet next week, some are convinced that wage pressures might still emerge, leading to a rising inflation rate. [C1.]
 REVISED PROFITS The government said corporate profits earned in the United States from 2005 to 2007 rose more rapidly than thought, making the subsequent fall more precipitous. [C1.]
 BIG LOSS GMAC Financial Services posted a $2.5 billion quarterly loss that included a large write-down on the value of its S.U.V. leases, a bad omen for General Motors earnings. [C1.]
 DELAYED ORDERS Aircraft manufacturers are seeing troubling signs among their customers as airlines in the United States are putting off plans to update and expand their fleets. [C1.]
 TWIST OF FATE Martha Stewart and two others who were sent to prison in the insider trading scandal at ImClone Systems could have avoided jail time if they had been more patient. [C1.]
 Bristol-Myers Squibb made an unsolicited offer of $60 a share, or about $4.5 billion, to acquire the rest of ImClone Systems it did not already own. [C5.]
 RECORD EARNINGS Exxon Mobil reported its best quarterly profit in history, but investors were disappointed as oil and natural gas prices resumed their decline, and Exxon's shares fell. [C2.]
 'THE BEGINNING OF THE END' Deutsche Bank reported another $3.6 billion in write-downs, but its chief executive said investment banks could emerge from the turmoil with a vibrant future. [C3.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); AIRLINES (67%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (66%); SCANDALS (51%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); BMY (NYSE) (54%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



17 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: In Color and In Black
 Photographs from two art shows: ''Kirchner and the Berlin Street'' at the Museum of Modern Art, and ''Imageless'' at the Guggenheim. The Kirchner show focuses on seven colorful paintings that depict stylishly dressed female streetwalkers, while the Guggenheim show dissects a work from Ad Reinhardt's ''Black Painting'' series, at left, to demonstrate the process of restoration. 
 nytimes.com/design
 SLIDESHOW: DO YOU EVEN HAVE AN INNER WOODSMAN?
 A weekend survival course teaches urbanites the finer points of staying alive when they're far from the comforts of city living. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: AN ASSESSMENT OF THE ECONOMY
 Peter Goodman talks about the American economy, which expanded at a weaker-than-expected 1.9 percent annual rate between April and June.
 nytimes.com/business
 Bits
 Blu-Ray Quality
 Via Satellite, or Not?
 Satellite TV in high-definition as good as a Blu-ray disc? Be skeptical, say those who study compression algorithms and bit rates. Also in Bits, a new Blu-ray player from LG can be used to view movies over the Internet from Netflix. The cost of adding this feature is almost nothing. 
 nytimes.com/bits
 AUDIO: THE BEST OF WELL
 Tara Parker-Pope discusses the recent death of the Carnegie-Mellon professor Randy Pausch with Jeff Zaslow, an author of the best-selling book ''The Last Lecture,'' which he wrote with Mr. Pausch. 
 nytimes.com/well
 RECIPES FOR HEALTH 
 This week, Martha Rose Shulman provides recipes featuring eggs. Despite their bad reputation because of cholesterol, eggs can be the basis of healthful meals at all times of the day.
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 SLIDESHOW: 36 HOURS IN PROVIDENCE
 An Ivy League college, a cutting-edge art school and top-flight chefs have helped Providence shed its reputation as a far-flung Boston suburb. But these cultural trappings, associated with overcrowded metropolises, have not caused the city to lose its small-town flavor. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: '12 OPHELIAS'
 Out in the Open
 About directing the outdoor show ''12 Ophelias,'' which is being presented free by the Woodshed Collective, a theater company, at the McCarren Park Pool in Brooklyn. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 AUDIO: ON 'FROZEN RIVER'
 Courtney Hunt, director of ''Frozen River,'' narrates a look at her film about the smuggling of immigrants across the New York-Canadian border. 
 nytimes.com/movies
 SLIDESHOW: AMUSING STORIES
 The reminiscences of a lively 101-year-old woman, Liz Goodyear, who is blind and home-bound but has a team of energetic admirers who read to her and keep her company. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 Opinion
 Judith Warner Camp Co-Dependence
 On the ''affluenza'' epidemic, characterized by overindulged children and a sense of entitlement, that is sweeping the nation.
 nytimes.com/judithwarner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); PAINTING (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CITIES (75%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); WRITERS (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); THEATER COMPANIES (60%); THEATER (51%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

COMPANY: CAMP CO INC (60%); NETFLIX INC (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3272 CONCRETE PRODUCTS, EXCEPT BLOCK & BRICK (60%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



18 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWARK JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: A $126 Million Rumor, Flying From New Jersey to Rio

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Fernanda Santos contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEWARK -- When they write the definitive history of the Great Brazilian Lottery Rumor, its authors may not be able to get much closer to its precise origins than the notebook of Leonardo Ferreira, a reporter for The Brazilian Voice newspaper, which is published here.
It was Mr. Ferreira who, in the newspaper's July 26 issue, first printed the gossip that the winning ticket in New Jersey's Mega Millions lottery drawing of July 22 had been purchased by a Brazilian immigrant at a supermarket in the Ironbound neighborhood, which has large Brazilian and Portuguese populations. The jackpot was $126 million.
The source of Mr. Ferreira's tip was nebulous: a supermarket employee whose name he never learned. But in short order the scuttlebutt got increasingly rich and more colorful.
One version held that the immigrant was illegal and was afraid to step forward for fear of losing the prize and being deported. In a retelling, the woman had entrusted the ticket to a friend, a legal immigrant, who now refuses to give it back. A variant maintained that the woman gave the ticket to her boyfriend who ran off with both the ticket and another lover. 
The rumors of the Brazilian multi-multi-multi-millionaire even became big news in Brazil, as they zipped back and forth between the continents via Internet, telephone, television and the jet streams of aspiration that connect the two countries. Within days, Brazilian television stations and newspapers, following up on Mr. Ferreira's article, were tracking the story.
''Brazilians from all over Brazil have been calling me,'' said Mr. Ferreira, who immigrated to the United States from Rio de Janeiro in 1995. ''Everybody went crazy.''
Problem is, it may not be true.
Antonio Seabra, owner of A & J Seabra Supermarkets XII in Ironbound, where the winning ticket was sold, said in a telephone interview late Thursday that he knew the winners. And while he declined to disclose their names, he said the winners were a married couple, legal Portuguese immigrants who had been shopping at his chain of supermarkets for 35 years and who were putting off claiming the prize until they could get their legal affairs in order.
''They're wonderful, wonderful people,'' Mr. Seabra said. ''They are so humble, a hard-working family. One of the American dreams.'' The husband, he added, ''actually went to work the next day.''
But the tale of the Brazilian lottery winner has become a great example of a world made small by modern telecommunications, media, trade and travel, where rumors in one immigrant corner of one American city can quickly reverberate back home, even if home is thousands of miles and a hemisphere away.
For the Brazilians of the Ironbound neighborhood and their relatives and friends in Brazil, a miraculous windfall of this magnitude represents the perfect get-rich-quick scheme, the ultimate expression of the American dream.
''People have been dreaming about the money and saying, 'Oh my God! If I win this money, I can buy whatever I want! I can have the American dream!' '' Mr. Ferreira said.
One elaboration of the rumor that gained currency during the week was that the ticket buyer was from Governador Valadares, a city in the south-central Brazilian state of Minas Gerais from which tens of thousands of people have migrated to the United States. Governador Valadares's ties to the United States are so strong that it has come to be known as Brazil's most American city.
''People here went nuts,'' Raimundo Santana, a journalist in Governador Valadares, said about the rumor. ''Wherever you go, all you hear is people talking about who this lottery winner might be, and what she might do with all this money.'' The $126 million lottery jackpot is equivalent to nearly half of the city's operating budget.
The rumor comes at a time when the Brazilian community in Ironbound seems in need of a boost. After years in which the Brazilian population here multiplied and Brazilian-owned businesses proliferated, the slumping American economy has compelled some residents to return to Brazil, where the economy is buoyant.
The rumors have provided immigrants a distraction from economic woes, and seems inspired in part by a feeling that a victory for a Brazilian here would, in some way, be a victory for the entire community.
It has also spurred unbridled fantasizing. One evening this week, employees and guests at the Casa Nova Grill, a Brazilian restaurant in Ironbound, were riffing on their dreams.
''I would travel the whole world and let people forget about me and settle down,'' said Mariana Dias, who is from Belo Horizonte in Brazil and was visiting the restaurant's manager, Rogerio Santos. ''Then I would go back to Brazil.''
''I'd move to Miami Beach, I'd buy a Lambo,'' said Mr. Santos, a native of Rio de Janeiro, using shorthand for a Lamborghini. ''Bling, bling!''
But Francisco Sampa, the president of the Brazilian American United Association of New Jersey and a leader of the Brazilian community here, was more circumspect about the whole thing. He wasn't buying into the rumors.
''I'm a man with the feelings,'' he said while sitting at the restaurant's bar sipping a Brazilian soda. ''Everybody say it's a Brazilian. But maybe not. I search already. I made a lot of phone calls, visit a lot of homes. Where is she? I know everybody.''
Still, the rumor of an illegal immigrant's winning the lottery raised a question that hung in the air of Ironbound's rodizio grill joints and choperia taverns this week: What's an illegal immigrant to do if she suddenly finds herself holding a $126 million lottery ticket?
Dominick DeMarco, spokesman for the New Jersey Lottery, said that a nonresident foreigner, illegally in the country or not, could claim a prize provided that the person could show an official document that proves identity and country of origin. But the nonresident foreigner would face a 30 percent federal tax rather than the 25 percent that a legal resident would face.
He said a nonresident foreigner had not won the lottery's jackpot ''in recent memory.''
Richard Rocha, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said if the agency investigators received ''credible information'' that a person was in the country illegally, they might start investigating.
Mr. DeMarco said the kind of self-propelling theories that have been the buzz of Ironbound are not unique. ''There are a lot of rumors swirling around when a winner doesn't immediately step forward,'' he said.
But he seemed amused by the increasingly colorful details of the rumors surrounding the July 22 drawing.
''I got to tell you,'' he said, fighting back laughter. ''There are probably as many stories out there as there are combinations of numbers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The store in the ironbound neighborhood where a winning lottery ticket was sold. Its owner, Antonio Seabra, says the winners of the $126 million jackpot are legal Portuguese immigrants.
Leonardo Ferreira, a Brazilian Voice reporter, helped give life to the tale of a possible Brazilian instant multimillionaire. ''Brazilians from all over Brazil have been calling me,'' he said. (pg. B4)
 The winning ticket in a $126 million jackpot was sold in Newark's Ironbound neighborhood, prompting rumors that a Brazilian immigrant had bought it.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEPORTATION (70%); MARRIAGE (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010



19 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Missing Dean Acheson

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We're about to enter our 19th consecutive year of Truman-envy. Ever since the Berlin Wall fell, people have looked at the way Harry Truman, George C. Marshall, Dean Acheson and others created forward-looking global institutions after World War II, and they've asked: Why can't we rally that kind of international cooperation to confront terrorism, global warming, nuclear proliferation and the rest of today's problems? 
 The answer is that, in the late 1940s, global power was concentrated. The victory over fascism meant the mantle of global leadership rested firmly on the Atlantic alliance. The United States accounted for roughly half of world economic output. Within the U.S., power was wielded by a small, bipartisan, permanent governing class -- men like Acheson, W. Averell Harriman, John McCloy and Robert Lovett. 
 Today power is dispersed. There is no permanent bipartisan governing class in Washington. Globally, power has gone multipolar, with the rise of China, India, Brazil and the rest.
 This dispersion should, in theory, be a good thing, but in practice, multipolarity means that more groups have effective veto power over collective action. In practice, this new pluralistic world has given rise to globosclerosis, an inability to solve problem after problem. 
 This week, for the first time since World War II, an effort to liberalize global trade failed. The Doha round collapsed, despite broad international support, because India's Congress Party did not want to offend small farmers in the run up to the next elections. Chinese leaders dug in on behalf of cotton and rice producers.
 In a de-centered world, all it takes is a few well-placed parochial interests to bring a vast global process tumbling down. 
 And the Doha failure comes amid a decade of globosclerosis. The world has failed to effectively end genocide in Darfur. Chinese and Russian vetoes foiled efforts to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe. The world has failed to implement effective measures to deter Iran's nuclear ambitions. The world has failed to embrace a collective approach to global warming. Europe's drive toward political union has stalled.
 In each case, the logic is the same. Groups with a strong narrow interest are able to block larger groups with a diffuse but generalized interest. The narrow Chinese interest in Sudanese oil blocks the world's general interest in preventing genocide. Iran's narrow interest in nuclear weapons trumps the world's general interest in preventing a Middle East arms race. Diplomacy goes asymmetric and the small defeat the large.
 Moreover, in a multipolar world, there is no way to referee disagreements among competing factions. In a democratic nation, the majority rules and members of the minority understand that they must accede to the wishes of those who win elections.
 But globally, people have no sense of shared citizenship. Everybody feels they have the right to say no, and in a multipolar world, many people have the power to do so. There is no mechanism to wield authority. There are few shared values on which to base a mechanism. The autocrats of the world don't even want a mechanism because they are afraid that it would be used to interfere with their autocracy.
 The results are familiar. We get United Nations resolutions that go unenforced. We get high-minded vows to police rogue regimes, but little is done. We get the failure of the Doha round and the gradual weakening of the international economic order.
 A few years ago, the U.S. tried to break through this global passivity. It tried to enforce U.N. resolutions and put the mantle of authority on its own shoulders. The results of that enterprise, the Iraq war, suggest that this approach will not be tried again anytime soon.
 And so the globosclerosis continues, and people around the world lose faith in their leaders. It's worth remembering that George W. Bush is actually more popular than many of his peers. His approval ratings hover around 29 percent. Gordon Brown's are about 17 percent. Japan's Yasuo Fukuda's are about 26 percent. Nicolas Sarkozy, Angela Merkel and Silvio Berlusconi have ratings that are a bit higher, but still pathetically low.
 This is happening because voters rightly sense that leaders lack the authority to address problems.
 The bottom line is that presidential candidates can talk grandly about global partnerships, but it's meaningless without a mechanism to wield authority. A crucial question in an authority crisis is: Who has a strategy for execution?
 The best idea floating around now is a League of Democracies, as John McCain and several Democrats have proposed. Nations with similar forms of government do seem to share cohering values. If democracies could concentrate authority in such a league, at least part of the world would have a mechanism for wielding authority. It may not be a return to Acheson, Marshall and the rest, but at least it slows the relentless slide towards drift and dissipation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ARMS RACE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); VETO (71%); RICE FARMING (64%); GENOCIDE (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TERRORISM (56%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); SUDAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



20 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: High Fuel Costs Delay Airplane Orders

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Caroline Brothers contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
When Emirates airline's gigantic A380 aircraft glides into Kennedy International Airport on Friday, Airbus executives will breathe a sigh of relief at seeing their flagship jet complete its maiden American journey.
 But their relief could be short-lived. Despite a backlog of airplane orders stretching for years at both Airbus, which is owned by EADS, and its main rival, the Boeing Company, aircraft manufacturers are seeing troubling signs among their customers. 
 High fuel prices helped cause major airlines in the United States to lose more than $6 billion in the second quarter. Companies are grounding older planes, eliminating flights and routes and putting off plans to update and expand their fleets. 
 After a second-quarter loss last week, JetBlue said it would push back its plans to buy more small jets from Embraer of Brazil, its second such announcement this year. All told, the company has put off deliveries of 31 jets, including planes from Airbus. 
 United, which lost $2.7 billion in the second quarter, does not plan to buy a single new plane in the foreseeable future. Asked when it might consider buying new jets, United's chief operating officer, John P. Tague, replied: ''First, making money.''
 Even Southwest Airlines, which has been on a decade-long growth spurt, recently signaled that it may not add more seats in 2009 -- when it is set to take 14 new aircraft from Boeing -- despite being the only major American airliner to make a profit.
 ''We are watching the situation with great care on a daily, weekly basis,'' Thomas O. Enders, the chief executive at Airbus, said this month.
 For passengers, the delays could mean more flights on middle-aged jets that lack the creature comforts of newer planes, not to mention the better fuel economy that might help keep a lid on rising ticket prices.
 Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive of United, said high fuel prices could force airlines around the world to join the American carriers in pulling back on orders. 
 ''There's going to be a recasting of the industry, and it's now stretched offshore,'' Mr. Tilton said. ''It's reaching Europe, it's getting to the Asian carriers,'' he said, adding: ''You're going to see a recalibration of the industry, and it's going to have an effect on order books.''
 On Monday, Ryanair, the Irish low-fare carrier, said its second-quarter profits plummeted because of fuel prices, and warned that -- for the first time since going public in 1997 -- it may not make money this year.
 The spreading downturn causes some analysts to wonder if aircraft makers will be left with ''white tails'' -- industry slang for planes that are built without customers to accept them, leaving their tails unpainted. 
 Yet, manufacturers contend they have more than enough orders from outside the United States to easily get them through the next few years. ''We are very much aware of the unfolding crisis in North America,'' Mr. Enders said, ''but the situation is different in other places.''
 More than just confident, Mr. Enders seemed visibly frustrated this month when asked yet again whether oil prices would hurt the overall picture at Airbus. ''Hell, we have 3,600 aircraft'' waiting to be built, Mr. Enders said. He went on: ''This company will not be jeopardized if there is a significant meltdown.''
 Indeed, on Monday, Airbus announced it had signed a letter of intent with Emirates for an additional $13.3 billion in jets, including the A330 long-range jet and the coming A350 medium-range aircraft. The American crisis is even good news to some foreign airlines. 
 The decision by three American carriers to put off taking delivery of Boeing 737s, for instance, meant the company was able to provide planes to a new Middle East carrier, FlyDubai. It is owned by Emirates, which is clearly willing to spread its business between the two big manufacturers.
 Based in the United Arab Emirates, FlyDubai will begin flying next year, far sooner than it otherwise might have been able to start, given Boeing's backlog.
 Boeing has orders for 3,651 planes worth $285 billion, according to Morten Beyer & Agnew, a consulting firm based in Arlington, Va. That includes around 900 orders for the 787 Dreamliner, set to begin flying next year. 
 Airbus had orders for 3,634 planes worth $236 billion (the figures do not include Monday's announcement). Its orders include nearly 200 for the mammoth A380 and nearly 400 for the A350.
 Both companies have received cancellations in 2008 -- Airbus for 67 planes, or 1.84 percent of its orders, and Boeing for 63 planes, or 1.72 percent of its orders. And each has encountered costly delays with its newest planes, including the Dreamliner and the A380.
 But the situation is a far cry from that faced by the manufacturers after the 9/11 attacks, when Boeing's orders fell by half and Airbus was forced to freeze expansion plans and lay off 30,000 workers.
 To be sure, both aircraft manufacturers and airlines try to avoid canceling outright, leading to some maneuvering when it comes to order books.
 Analysts said deferrals help both sides save face: the aircraft manufacturers can continue counting the orders as firm, while airlines get some financial breathing room.
 When airlines place firm orders for jets, they make down payments and follow with regular payments until the plane is delivered, a process that can take up to five years. 
 They can also take options to buy aircraft, which requires less financial commitment, but gives them the opportunity for a place in line, should they choose, ahead of companies that have not yet placed orders.
 If they cancel, airlines generally must pay penalties to the aircraft maker, although the payment amount is sometimes applied to future orders. 
 For some manufacturers, firm orders can be hard to find. Bombardier raised eyebrows at the Farnborough International Airshow outside London last month, when it announced it was introducing a small jet, the C-series, on a promise from Lufthansa of Germany to buy 30 planes and take options on 30 more -- not the firm orders for 80 to 100 planes that Bombardier had hoped. 
 Details of the Lufthansa order have yet to be worked out. 
 But Bombardier is the only manufacturer whose customers have not canceled planes, and its executives said they were confident that Lufthansa's pledge would be enough to attract other customers, which could include Chinese airlines.
 Philip Toy, managing director who specializes in aerospace at AlixPartners, a reorganization firm based in Southfield, Mich., said airlines and aircraft makers worldwide were watching to see if oil prices moderate, because that could determine the fate of each.
 In the worse case, Mr. Toy said, as much as a third of the order backlog could vanish over the next 18 months. The best Boeing, Airbus and the other companies can hope for, he said, is that ''orders keep rolling in and expansion continues.'' 
 Caroline Brothers contributed reporting from Paris. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A chart that accompanied an article on Friday about canceled or delayed orders for new aircraft referred incompletely to the status of orders for Airbus and Boeing planes. Because the aircraft makers were able to rebook some canceled orders with other airlines or leasing customers, Boeing has had one net aircraft cancellation in 2008, rather than 63, and Airbus has had 35 net cancellations, rather than 67, according to Morten Beyer & Agnew, a consulting firm that provided the data for the chart.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Airbus has orders for 200 A380s, like this one for Emirates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI HAIDER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. C1)
 Thomas Enders, left, chief of Airbus, signed a deal this week for 60 planes with Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum of Emirates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURIZIO GAMBARINI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. C6) CHART: ''On the Runway'' Although aircraft makers have had some cancellations recently, they still have many on order. (Source: Morten Beyer & Agnew)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TICKET SALES (65%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); EMBRAER SA (84%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); ERJ (NYSE) (84%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (84%); EAD (PAR) (58%); EAD (MCE) (58%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



21 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Fire Damage Takes a Toll on the Economy in Big Sur

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: BIG SUR, Calif. 

 BODY:
Kirk Gafill sat on the wooden deck of his restaurant, the Nepenthe, last weekend as ash fell like pepper flakes on 30 outdoor diners. 
 Daytime visitors are finally returning to this rugged coastal area of vintage motels, upscale resorts and deep-rooted counter-culture. 
 On Sunday, firefighters declared a nearby fire fully contained, but almost a month of evacuations and road closings have exacted a high price for businesses that rely on tourism. 
 As some campgrounds reopen and hotel workers clean the soot from linens, the goal almost everywhere is salvaging what is left of the summer season. 
 ''A lot of businesses here plan for a busy summer and go into debt in the off-season,'' Mr. Gafill said. ''This is the time to build checking and savings accounts to get through those leaner months.''
 The Big Sur Chamber of Commerce, which Mr. Gafill heads, estimates the economic loss for the local economy since lightning sparked the fire on June 21 at $10 million to $15 million. The five-week summer season was expected to gross $33 million to $50 million until the fires started, Mr. Gafill said.
 At Nepenthe, tourists chatted in French, German and Hindi as they admired the ocean view. 
 ''People will come in for the day, then there's a big line of cars out at night,'' said Lisa Kleissner, secretary of the Coast Property Owners Association. ''That's a lot of business lost.''
 Yair and Elisabeth Kedem, a couple in their 40s, watched flames in Big Sur on television in Tel Aviv last month and debated canceling their visit. They decided to drive through in their rented R.V. but not stay overnight. 
 ''We planned this trip for six months,'' Mr. Kedem said, ''so we still wanted to stop here, but only for lunch.'' 
 The economic reach of the fire's devastation has been deep and wide. The property association, which has offered $300 to people who suffered financial or property loss from the fire, has received almost 800 applications since early July, Ms. Kleissner said. The list includes hotel maids, waiters, masseuses and owners of art galleries and gas stations. 
 ''We're really seeing all the layers of this community and the way we're all connected to each other,'' Ms. Kleissner said. 
 About half the businesses in Big Sur are connected to the hospitality industry, accounting for about 90 percent of the local economy, Mr. Gafill said. July and August are twice as busy as the off-season, he added. Packed hotels and campgrounds more than double the local population of 1,500.
 As Mr. Gafill spoke, a Monterey County sheriff's helicopter beat its propeller nearby. Since the fire, the authorities have been searching for scorched marijuana crops, an illicit business that also suffered losses. 
 The authorities chopped down 32,000 marijuana plants on terraced slopes left exposed when forest canopy burned, said Sgt. Dan Karamitis, a detective in the county narcotics division. Each plant had an estimated street value of about $4,000, Sergeant Karamitis said. On a helicopter flight last week, he said, he spotted more than 60,000 plants that had burned. 
 ''We could certainly smell it during the fire,'' said Mr. Gafill, who, along with a dozen others, defied evacuation orders in July to watch over his property. 
 The burned homes and short season may push people into debt, Ms. Kleissner said, especially if winter brings heavy rains and the mudslides that are common along the California coast. 
 Fire destroyed the home of Mike Gilson, owner of the Big Sur Bakery & Restaurant, leaving only a chimney and charred walls. The bakery has been the town square of fire gossip, Ms. Kleissner said. Information and notes of support are posted on a bulletin board by the entrance. 
 Among the hardest hit have been the transients, illegal immigrants and hourly and part-time workers who commute to Big Sur from Carmel, Monterey, Salinas and other nearby towns. From late June through September, restaurants hire extra kitchen help and hotels add housekeepers to handle the seasonal influx of customers. 
 The Ventana Inn and Spa, a luxury hotel with 59 rooms and a restaurant, hires about 100 summer workers, said Jonathan Farrington, its manager. Nepenthe adds a dozen or so seasonal workers, as do the state parks and about 15 other hotels and restaurants along this 25-mile stretch of Big Sur. 
 Rosa Valdespino has worked part time as a store clerk and housekeeper at hotels in Big Sur every summer for 20 years. Ms. Valdespino said the summer tips and extra hours helped to see her through the winter months, when cold weather and rain kept tourists away. ''I used my savings to buy food to replace groceries that went bad during the evacuation,'' she said. ''Usually, this is the time to save away money for a special thing, for Christmas and for vacation.'' 
 ''Many people,'' she added, ''are going to feel this for a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Gilson stood at the railing of his Big Sur Bakery & Restaurant in early July and watched water being dropped on a fire on the other side of the road.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Business was improving at the restaurant Nepenthe, a month after fires burned in Big Sur, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); FIRES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); GAS STATIONS (71%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (64%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (54%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%); CANNABIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



22 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Shares Plunge on Weak Growth Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street sank Thursday after weak readings on economic growth and the job market touched off renewed concerns about the financial health of businesses and consumers. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 200 points. 
 The Commerce Department's report that gross domestic product grew at a 1.9 percent pace in the second quarter disappointed investors. Economists polled by Thomson Financial/IFR had expected growth of 2.4 percent.
 A $4.5 billion cash offer from Bristol-Myers Squibb for its cancer drug partner ImClone Systems kept the Nasdaq composite index from falling as sharply as other indexes. Oil prices declined, and an index of Midwestern business activity indicated growth.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 205.67 points, or 1.78 percent, to 11,378.02, continuing its string of erratic, triple-digit daily swings. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 16.88 points, or 1.31 percent, to 1,267.38. The Nasdaq fell 4.17, or 0.18 percent, to 2,325.55.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 4.34, or 0.60 percent, to 714.52. 
 Wall Street could not shake off its worries about the economy, particularly after sobering remarks from the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, on CNBC late in the afternoon. Mr. Greenspan said he would be more surprised if the United States did not enter a recession than if it did.
 The comments came after Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, said in a speech in Washington that the economy would continue to grow at a moderate pace for the rest of the year.
 During July, the Dow inched up 0.25 percent, the S.& P. fell 0.99 percent, and the Nasdaq rose 1.42 percent. It was a far better showing than in June, during which the Dow dropped 10.19 percent, the S.& P. fell 8.60 percent, and the Nasdaq lost 9.10 percent.
 Bond prices jumped after the economic readings. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 23/32, to 99 13/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.95 percent, from 4.04 percent.
 Light crude oil fell $2.69, to settle at $124.08 a barrel after rising more than $4.50 on Wednesday. Oil has fallen more than $20 since hitting a high above $147 on July 11, raising hopes that inflation pressures could ease.
 Investors sifted through several quarterly profit reports for clues about the economy.
 Exxon Mobil reported second-quarter earnings of $11.68 billion, the largest quarterly profit ever by an American corporation. But the per-share earnings fell well short of Wall Street's forecast, and the stock fell $3.95, or 4.7 percent, to $80.43, weighing on the Dow industrials.
 Walt Disney fell $1.32, or 4.2 percent, to $30.35 after the company reported a slowdown in the United States advertising market in the current quarter and weak box office results in the last one.
 Motorola rose 96 cents, or 12.5 percent, to $8.64 after posting a surprise profit for its second quarter. The company said it shipped more cellphones than in the first quarter.
 Eastman Kodak reported a second-quarter profit but the results missed Wall Street's forecast. The stock declined $1.13, or 7.2 percent, to $14.64.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' The graph shows the hour to hour change in the stock market yesterday. (Source: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INFLATION (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); CANCER DRUGS (55%)

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



23 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Every Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 8:30 p.m., ''SonicVision,'' an animated alternative-music show is shown in the Rose Center; tickets, $15; $12 for members. Through Jan. 4, ''The Horse'' examines the ways in which humans and horses are linked. Through Jan. 
5, ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive,'' a display of more than 60 live creatures from five continents. In the Imax theater through Sept. 1, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure,'' about reptiles found beneath the water 80 million years ago, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur remains. Timed tickets to ''The Horse'' and ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $22; $16.50 for students and 60+; $13 for 12 and younger. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center for Earth and Space admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $30; $23 for students and 60+; $19 for 12 and younger. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. The Rose Center is open until 8:45 p.m. for ''Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere,'' with jazz, a cash bar and tapas on the first Friday of every month; this Friday, at 6 and 7:30 p.m., the T. K. Blue Sextet. (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200; amnh.org.
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., a ''Harlem Rent Party,'' celebrates the music heard in the early 20th century, with a screening of filmed performances by Fats Waller, Louis Jordan, Count Basie, Billie Holiday and others. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society.
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Aug. 10, ''French Founding Father: Lafayette's Return to Washington's America,'' a multimedia exhibition with a video display and items associated with the Marquis de Lafayette. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York.
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Saturday at 10 a.m., Nostalgia Train: ''Multi-Anniversary tour of the IRT,'' a ride aboard a vintage subway car in celebration of the 100th anniversary of IRT service to the Bronx, meeting on the platform of the 42nd Street Shuttle at Grand Central; $30 ($25 for members; $10 for those 3 to 17); reservations: (718) 694-1600. 
 Events
 ASIAN AMERICANS FOR EQUALITY STREET FAIR, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., on Bayard Street, between Elizabeth and Baxter Streets, Chinatown.BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS FIRST FRIDAY, 6 to 10 p.m., at the Andrew Freedman Home, 1125 Grand Concourse, at McClellan Street, Morrisania. ''Africanisimo!,'' with music, dance and film screenings. Rain location: the museum, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street. (718) 681-6000; bronxmuseum.org. Free.
 C.O.R.E. HEALTH EXPO, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Seventh Avenue, from 47th to 57th Street, Manhattan. Sponsored by the Congress of Racial Equality. 
 18TH HONG KONG DRAGON BOAT FESTIVAL, with races Saturday and Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., at the Lake in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens. (718) 746-5781; hkdbf-ny.org.FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAS, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas from 42nd to 56th Streets.FIRST POLICE PRECINCT COMMUNITY COUNCIL FESTIVAL, Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Greenwich Street, from Barclay to Chambers Streets, Lower Manhattan.FOLKS ON THE ISLAND! A FOLK MUSIC FESTIVAL ON GOVERNORS ISLAND. folksontheisland.com. Saturday at 1:30 p.m., a performance by the actor and guitarist Ronny Cox. Free, as is ferry service, which begins at 10 a.m., from the Battery Maritime Building, South and Whitehall Streets, Lower Manhattan; ferry schedule: www.govisland.com. LINCOLN SQUARE NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER FESTIVAL, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Columbus Avenue, from 66th to 72nd Streets.LOUIS ARMSTRONG BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, commemorating the 107th anniversary of his birth, Saturday, 1 to 4 p.m., in the garden at the Louis Armstrong House, 34-56 107th Street, Corona, Queens. With performances by the Walker Street Orphans, the York College Summer Jazz Institute and Ballet Folklorico. (718) 478-8274; satchmo.net. Free.
 NEW YORKERS FOR NEW YORK, a benefit sight-seeing cruise on the Circle Line, Wednesdays through Aug. 27. Boarding is at 6:15 p.m. at Pier 83, 42nd Street and the West Side Highway; the boat sails at 6:45 p.m. $27, includes music, a beverage and a $5 donation to the Food Bank for New York City. (212) 563-3200; circleline42.com.
 OUTDOOR CINEMA AT SOCRATES SCULPTURE GARDEN, 32-01 Vernon Boulevard, at Broadway, Long Island City, Queens. Wednesday at 7 p.m., ''The Red Balloon'' (1956) and ''Persepolis'' (2007), preceded by music by the pop group, Clare and the Reasons. (718) 956-1819, socratessculpturepark.org. Free.REEL HARLEM: SEVENTH HISTORIC HARLEM PARKS FILM FESTIVAL, concludes on Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. with a screening of ''Trouble the Water,'' a 2008 documentary about a rap singer and her husband, at the Harlem Meer, near the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, Central Park, 110th Street and Fifth Avenue; live music will precede the screening. historicharlemparks.org.
 TARGET FIRST SATURDAY, 5 to 11 p.m., at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. A free evening of Caribbean music and dance, as well as a reading, a gallery talk and a film screening. Some events require tickets. (718) 638-5000; brooklynmuseum.org.THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY STREET THEATER, East 10th Street, between First and Second Avenues, East Village. Saturday at 2 p.m., a free performance of the musical ''It's the Economy, Stupid!,'' to announce the opening of the theater's street theater series. (212) 254-1109.
 THIRD CLAM AND LOBSTER BAKE, Saturday at 5:30 p.m., at Conference House Park, Pavilion, 7455 Hylan Boulevard, at Satterlee Street, Tottenville, Staten Island. Also featuring entertainment. Reservations: (718) 984-6046. $100 per person; proceeds to benefit programs at the Conference House, an historic site dating to the Revolutionary War. 2008 SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Mulberry and Hester Streets. Saturday, noon to 5 p.m., a Family Festival Weekend, with face painters, a balloon artist, magicians and puppeteers. At 3 p.m., there will also be a clam-shucking contest. littleitalynyconline.org; (212) 302-0551. Free
 Walking Tours
 ART GALLERY WALKING TOUR IN LOWER MANHATTAN, Saturday at 1 p.m., meeting at 1 Bowling Green, near Broadway. Sponsored by nygallerytours.com. (212) 946-1548. $20. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Sunday at 10 a.m., ''Where Does Harlem Begin?,'' an historical walk, meeting on the northeast corner of 86th Street and Lexington Avenue. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. ELLIS ISLAND TOUR, meeting Wednesdays and Saturdays at 1 p.m., outside the Ellis Island Museum. Led by Tom Bernadin of Ellis Island Tours. Reservations required: (212) 209-3370; ellisislandtours.com. $15. Ferry information, (877) 523-9823; statuecruises.com. Ferry fare, $12, $10 for 62+, $5 for children 4 to 12.I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Chelsea Yesterday and Today,'' meeting on the northwest corner of 15th Street and Ninth Avenue. (732) 270-5559. $15.
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Ayn Rand's Park Avenue,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Lexington Avenue and 45th Street. (917) 607-9019. $20.JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Wall Street: A Colonial Melting Pot With Hearty Dutch Influence,'' meeting at Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street, Lower Manhattan. (212) 242-5762. $15; $12 for 65+.LINCOLN SQUARE: GATEWAY TO THE UPPER WEST SIDE, the first and third Sunday of every month through October, at 2 p.m., tours of this Manhattan neighborhood, meeting on the southwest corner of Broadway and 60th Street. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-3774. Free.METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.MORNINGSIDE HEIGHTS TO STRYKER BAY, visits this upper West Side neighborhood, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. on the southeast corner of Broadway and 110th Street. Sponsored by the Columbus-Amsterdam Business Improvement District. Reservations advised: (212) 666-9774. Free.NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Friday at 7 p.m., ''Summer Nights, Lights and Delights: Poe's Night Out,'' a tour that covers the life and Edgar Allan Poe, meeting in front of 17 West 10th Street, West Village. (888) 377-4455. $15, $10 credit card. 
 NOSHWALKS Saturday at noon, visits to two Brooklyn locations: Atlantic Avenue and Sunset Park, meeting in front of Damascus Bakery, 195 Atlantic Avenue, at Court Street. (212) 222-2243. $35 ($32 for subscribers).
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 6 p.m., ''Joe Sent Me: A Historic Speakeasy Tour,'' meeting at Dean & DeLuca at the southeast corner of Prince Street and Broadway, SoHo; drinks and tips not included in price of tour. (212) 969-8262. $10. 
 Recreation
 NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS Saturday at 7 a.m., the ING New York City Marathon Long Training Run No. 1, a 6-to-20 mile run in Central Park, beginning on the East Drive north of 102nd Street. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. $15; $10 for members and those 18 and younger and 62+; race day, $20 and $15.
 Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); HISTORY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HORSES (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); FILM (77%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



24 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Can This Planet Be Saved?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Recently the Web site The Politico asked Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, why she was blocking attempts to tack offshore drilling amendments onto appropriations bills. ''I'm trying to save the planet; I'm trying to save the planet,'' she replied.
 I'm glad to hear it. But I'm still worried about the planet's prospects. 
 True, Ms. Pelosi's remark was a happy reminder that environmental policy is no longer in the hands of crazy people. Remember, less than two years ago Senator James Inhofe -- a conspiracy theorist who insists that global warming is a ''gigantic hoax'' perpetrated by the scientific community -- was the chairman of the Senate's Environment and Public Works Committee.
 Beyond that, Ms. Pelosi's response shows that she understands the deeper issues behind the current energy debate.
 Most criticism of John McCain's decision to follow the Bush administration's lead and embrace offshore drilling as the answer to high gas prices has focused on the accusation that it's junk economics -- which it is. 
 A McCain campaign ad says that gas prices are high right now because ''some in Washington are still saying no to drilling in America.'' That's just plain dishonest: the U.S. government's own Energy Information Administration says that removing restrictions on offshore drilling wouldn't lead to any additional domestic oil production until 2017, and that even at its peak the extra production would have an ''insignificant'' impact on oil prices.
 What's even more important than Mr. McCain's bad economics, however, is what his reversal on this issue -- he was against offshore drilling before he was for it -- says about his priorities. 
 Back when he was cultivating a maverick image, Mr. McCain portrayed himself as more environmentally aware than the rest of his party. He even co-sponsored a bill calling for a cap-and-trade system to limit greenhouse gas emissions (although his remarks on several recent occasions suggest that he doesn't understand his own proposal). But the lure of a bit of political gain, it turns out, was all it took to transform him back into a standard drill-and-burn Republican.
 And the planet can't afford that kind of cynicism.
 In themselves, limits on offshore drilling are only a modest-sized issue. But the skirmish over drilling is the opening stage of a much bigger fight over environmental policy. What's at stake in that fight, above all, is the question of whether we'll take action against climate change before it's utterly too late. 
 It's true that scientists don't know exactly how much world temperatures will rise if we persist with business as usual. But that uncertainty is actually what makes action so urgent. While there's a chance that we'll act against global warming only to find that the danger was overstated, there's also a chance that we'll fail to act only to find that the results of inaction were catastrophic. Which risk would you rather run?
 Martin Weitzman, a Harvard economist who has been driving much of the recent high-level debate, offers some sobering numbers. Surveying a wide range of climate models, he argues that, over all, they suggest about a 5 percent chance that world temperatures will eventually rise by more than 10 degrees Celsius (that is, world temperatures will rise by 18 degrees Fahrenheit). As Mr. Weitzman points out, that's enough to ''effectively destroy planet Earth as we know it.'' It's sheer irresponsibility not to do whatever we can to eliminate that threat.
 Now for the bad news: sheer irresponsibility may be a winning political strategy.
 Mr. McCain's claim that opponents of offshore drilling are responsible for high gas prices is ridiculous -- and to their credit, major news organizations have pointed this out. Yet Mr. McCain's gambit seems nonetheless to be working: public support for ending restrictions on drilling has risen sharply, with roughly half of voters saying that increased offshore drilling would reduce gas prices within a year.
 Hence my concern: if a completely bogus claim that environmental protection is raising energy prices can get this much political traction, what are the chances of getting serious action against global warming? After all, a cap-and-trade system would in effect be a tax on carbon (though Mr. McCain apparently doesn't know that), and really would raise energy prices. 
 The only way we're going to get action, I'd suggest, is if those who stand in the way of action come to be perceived as not just wrong but immoral. Incidentally, that's why I was disappointed with Barack Obama's response to Mr. McCain's energy posturing -- that it was ''the same old politics.'' Mr. Obama was dismissive when he should have been outraged.
 So as I said, I'm very glad to know that Nancy Pelosi is trying to save the planet. I just wish I had more confidence that she's going to succeed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



25 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Profit Declined 21% in Quarter for Unilever

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
AMSTERDAM -- The consumer products company Unilever, which makes Dove soaps, Lipton teas and Ben & Jerry's ice cream, said Thursday that net profit fell 21 percent in the second quarter, hurt by a strong euro, higher taxes and restructuring costs. 
 The company said net profit was 909 million euros ($1.41 billion), down from 1.14 billion euros in the period a year ago. Sales fell 1.4 percent to 10.4 billion euros ($16.2 billion).
 The company's chief executive, Patrick Cescau, said operations were healthy, with ''underlying'' sales growth -- a measure that strips out currency effects and impact of operations that have been sold -- and stable profit margins.
 The company said underlying sales were up 6.8 percent in the quarter, with an operating margin of 13 percent, down fractionally amid rising commodity costs. Mr. Cescau called the results ''good in what has been a challenging environment.'' 
 The company did not address a report last week that Mr. Cescau has told the company's board he intends to step down in May.
 Unilever said that the underlying sales growth in Europe and North America was the result of price increases, and volumes had fallen, which analysts said was a bad sign.
 ''The decline in volume growth illustrates the pain of consumers and the shift to cheaper alternatives,'' an analyst at Petercam, Fernand de Boer, wrote in a note on earnings. ''We expect this trend to force Unilever to make painful decisions.''
 He said that as the American economy slows, Unilever will probably have to sacrifice its margins in order to maintain market share, either by investing more or by cutting prices.
 In Unilever's largest market, Europe, sales fell 0.6 percent to 4.02 billion euros ($6.27 billion), while margins weakened. Unilever said ice cream sales volumes were down.
 In the Americas, sales fell 5.8 percent, to 3.31 billion euros ($5.16 billion), while margins weakened, with the weaker economy and dollar overshadowing strong growth in Latin America.
 Unilever said that underlying sales grew in the United States but ''all of the growth is coming from price, with consumer volumes lower than a year ago.''
 In Asia and Africa, sales rose 2.7 percent, to 3.04 billion euros ($4.74 billion).
 The company announced two major deals this month. First it agreed to sell its Bertolli olive oil business to Grupo of Spain for $999 million, then its North American laundry detergents business -- including the All, Snuggle, Wisk and Surf brands -- to a private equity investor Vestar Capital Partners for $1.45 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); EURO (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); TRENDS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (65%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (91%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (90%); VESTAR CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (50%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (90%); UNA (BIT) (90%); UNA (AMS) (90%); UN (NYSE) (90%); ULVR (LSE) (90%); UL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: PATRICK CESCAU (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (74%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



26 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: McCain Camp Says Obama Plays 'Race Card'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MICHAEL POWELL; Michael Cooper reported from Orlando, Fla., and Michael Powell from Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Adam Nagourney and Michael Falcone contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's campaign accused Senator Barack Obama on Thursday of playing ''the race card,'' citing his remarks that Republicans would try to scare voters by pointing out that he ''doesn't look like all those other presidents on the dollar bills.''
 The exchange injected racial politics front and center into the general election campaign for the first time, after it became a subtext in the primary between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 It came as the McCain campaign was intensifying its attacks, trying to throw its Democratic opponent off course before the conventions. 
 ''Barack Obama has played the race card, and he played it from the bottom of the deck,'' Mr. McCain's campaign manager, Rick Davis, charged in a statement with which Mr. McCain later said he agreed. ''It's divisive, negative, shameful and wrong.''
 In leveling the charge, Mr. Davis was referring to comments that Mr. Obama made Wednesday in Missouri when he reacted to the increasingly negative tone and negative advertisements from the McCain campaign, including one that likens Mr. Obama's celebrity status to that of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears.
 ''So nobody really thinks that Bush or McCain have a real answer for the challenges we face, so what they're going to try to do is make you scared of me,'' Mr. Obama said in Springfield, Mo., echoing earlier remarks. ''You know, he's not patriotic enough. He's got a funny name. You know, he doesn't look like all those other presidents on those dollar bills, you know. He's risky. That's essentially the argument they're making.''
 With his rejoinder about playing ''the race card,'' Mr. Davis effectively assured that race would once again become an unavoidable issue as voters face an election in which, for the first time, one of the major parties' nominees is African-American. 
 And with its criticism, the McCain campaign was ensuring that Mr. Obama's race -- he is the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas -- would again be a factor in coverage of the presidential race. On Thursday, it took the spotlight from Mr. Obama when he had sought to attack Mr. McCain on energy issues. 
 The tactic could cut both ways: it might tap into the qualms some white, working-class voters in crucial swing states may have about a black candidate, or it could ricochet back against the McCain campaign, which has been accused even by some fellow Republicans of engaging in overly negative campaigning in recent days.
 The remarks put Mr. Obama's campaign, which has tried to keep him from being pigeonholed or defined by race, in a delicate position. He did not address the matter himself on Thursday, and his campaign gingerly tried to tamp down the issue, saying he did not believe that Mr. McCain had tried to use race as an issue. 
 ''This is a race about big challenges -- a slumping economy, a broken foreign policy and an energy crisis for everyone but the oil companies,'' said Robert Gibbs, a campaign spokesman. ''Barack Obama in no way believes that the McCain campaign is using race as an issue, but he does believe they're using the same old low-road politics to distract voters from the real issues in this campaign. And those are the issues he'll continue to talk about.''
 The sparring over race thrust an unpredictable element into the campaign. Contests have often been influenced by racial imagery, whether stark, like the Willie Horton advertisements run against Michael S. Dukakis in the 1988 presidential race, or subtle. 
 In the 2006 Senate race in Tennessee, Republicans ran an advertisement against a black candidate, the Democrat Harold E. Ford Jr., that featured a white woman saying, with a wink, ''Harold, call me.'' Some have drawn parallels between that commercial and the McCain campaign's advertisement juxtaposing Ms. Spears and Ms. Hilton with Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. McCain addressed Mr. Davis's ''race card'' comments later Thursday. ''I agree with it, and I'm disappointed that Senator Obama would say the things he's saying,'' Mr. McCain said aboard his campaign bus in Racine, Wis., according to The Associated Press.
 Mr. Davis's comments came as the McCain campaign has adopted a far more aggressive, negative posture toward Mr. Obama in recent days, trying to define him as arrogant, out of touch and unprepared for the presidency. But until this week, the McCain campaign had not invoked race.
 Mr. Obama has been the victim of some racist and racially tinged attacks this year, particularly during the primaries.
 Underground e-mail campaigns have spread the false rumor that he is Muslim and questioned his patriotism by falsely charging that he does not put his hand over his heart when the Pledge of Allegiance is recited. A button spotted outside the Texas Republican convention asked, ''If Obama Is President ... Will We Still Call It the White House?''
 But Mr. McCain has condemned racist campaigning and has denounced Republican groups that tried to make an issue of inflammatory statements made by Mr. Obama's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and one of his own supporters who referred to Mr. Obama as ''Barack Hussein Obama'' at a McCain rally.
 Mr. Obama has been more explicit about the role of race in attacks against him in the past, but he is rarely specific about who is behind them. ''We know what kind of campaign they're going to run,'' he said in June. ''They're going to try to make you afraid of me. 'He's young and inexperienced and he's got a funny name. And did I mention he's black?' ''
 Steve Schmidt, who runs the day-to-day operations of the McCain campaign, said the campaign had been moved to issue the statement in part because it saw the damage done during the Democratic primary when Obama supporters made accusations that former President Bill Clinton had been racially insensitive, or worse.
 ''The McCain campaign was compelled to respond to this outrageous attack because we will not allow John McCain to be smeared by Senator Obama as a racist for offering legitimate criticism,'' he said. ''We have waited for months with a sick feeling knowing this moment would come because we watched it incur with President Clinton. Say whatever you want about President Clinton, his record on this issue is above reproach.''
 In the Democratic primary campaign, Mr. Obama's supporters at several occasions accused the Clinton campaign of using racially charged tactics, particularly after Mr. Clinton equated Mr. Obama's victory in the South Carolina primary with the Rev. Jesse Jackson's victory in the nominating contest there in 1988. Mr. Clinton himself then complained in a radio interview in April that the Obama campaign had ''played the race card on me.''
 Howard Wolfson, who was the communications director of the Clinton campaign, said, ''The McCain campaign has obviously been watching our primary very closely and recognized how damaging it had been to be tagged with the charge of race baiting.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain speaking at a town-hall-style meeting on Thursday in Racine, Wis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Senator Barack Obama autographing items on Thursday after speaking in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); CELEBRITIES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PARIS HILTON (50%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (74%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (74%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



27 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words

PERSON: Josef Ackermann 

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank's Chief Proves Right for Times

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Josef Ackermann of Deutsche Bank dates one of the many missteps that led to the global credit crisis to a lunch he and other chief executives from leading banks had in New York last July. 
 Political leaders and senior Federal Reserve officials attended, and the subject was looming risks to the financial system. Mr. Ackermann recalled the deepening woes in the subprime mortgage market did not figure high on the agenda.
 ''We clearly underestimated the impact on completely different asset classes,'' he said in an interview here Thursday, as Deutsche Bank reported another $3.6 billion in write-downs along with second-quarter earnings. ''We were dead wrong.'' 
 It is not clear what Mr. Ackermann and his colleagues could have done to head off the financial train wreck that followed, even if they had recognized the implications of the subprime collapse. Still, Mr. Ackermann argued that investment banks could emerge from the turmoil with a vibrant future. 
 To do so, they will have to cut back complex financial engineering, disclose more of their balance sheets and accept tighter supervision.
 ''There are lessons to be learned,'' he said. ''We will see a flight to quality and simplicity. Some of these complex, sophisticated products will come back, but not all the facets of complexity.'' He said central bankers and regulators bear culpability too.
 By virtue of his survival and Deutsche Bank's relative strength during the crisis, Mr. Ackermann, 60, the Swiss investment banker who has run the institution since 2002, has become a sort of emissary for the industry.
 With write-downs of more than $11 billion, Deutsche Bank has hardly emerged unscathed. But compared to rivals like Citigroup, UBS and Merrill Lynch, its losses look manageable. Unlike them, it has not been forced to seek a financial lifeline or purge executives.
 ''We are seeing the beginning of the end'' of the crisis, Mr. Ackermann said, ''but the end will last a few months.''
 Analysts grudgingly say Deutsche Bank navigated this period with luck and foresight. It seems likely to stay on a careful course: despite weeks of rumors that it would bid for Postbank, a big German retail bank, Mr. Ackermann signaled that this was unlikely.
 While Mr. Ackermann would not comment directly on a bid, he said: ''The current environment is not particularly intriguing. It's more challenging to make a deal and explain it to our shareholders.''
 That is a striking turnabout from last spring, when Deutsche Bank said it intended to be a player in the consolidation of German banking. It made an offer last month for the German operations of Citigroup, but was outbid by Credit Mutuel of France.
 Deutsche Bank can claim a record of reading markets correctly. Last year, it bet that investors would not recover from their initial panic over failing subprime mortgages. That mitigated its losses.
 To be sure, the bank was still left holding billions of dollars in mortgage-backed securities. On Thursday, it wrote down 1 billion euros ($1.55 billion). It also took write-downs on its commercial real estate investments and exposure to bond insurers.
 The write-downs were higher than analysts expected, though its net income -- 645 million euros, or $1 billion -- was too. 
 Mr. Ackermann, who is without the swashbuckling style of many investment bankers, said his policy was simple: ''I'm not a risk-lover.''
 Deutsche Bank's risk aversion, and its unspectacular profits, used to be cited as evidence the stodgy bank would never compete in the top tier of global investment banks. Now Mr. Ackermann looks like a banker for his times.
 It is quite a role reversal, given that he is still known here mostly for his lavish pay and a long trial in which he was accused of betraying the shareholders of Mannesmann.
 For the last year, Deutsche Bank has been engaged in financial triage, calculating which securities to sell at a loss, and which to hold. The American housing market, Mr. Ackermann noted, is spotty. The company has sold much of its commercial real estate holdings, including several Manhattan office buildings.
 But the bank has taken over a $3.9 billion casino project in Las Vegas that it had originally financed for a developer, Ian Bruce Eichner. Mr. Ackermann said he was confident Deutsche Bank could line up investors.
 He has also grown more optimistic about the health of monoline insurers, firms that insure bonds, because the major players had shored up their financial positions.
 How long the credit crisis lasts, Mr. Ackermann said, now hinges on how much of the economic troubles in the United States are transmitted to other countries. (Britain's housing market is showing signs of an American-style collapse.)
 Over all, he said, governments should be ready to intervene, as they did with Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In Germany, such comments have raised hackles, with critics accusing him of endorsing bailouts.
 ''I never asked for any bailouts,'' he said.
 In such a straitened climate, some analysts believe Deutsche Bank will need to raise more capital, like Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Despite its progress in whittling down its asset-backed securities and leveraged loans, its vast balance sheet remains laden with risk.
 ''The regulators are at a point where they are looking at these institutions and are stumped,'' said David Williams, the head of banking research at the investment bank Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller. He thinks Deutsche Bank will have to raise 3 billion euros.
 Mr. Ackermann rejected that, pointing out that Deutsche Bank's Tier 1 capital ratio -- a common yardstick of a bank's strength -- is 9.3 percent, up slightly from the previous quarter.
 He acknowledged the crisis would have a lasting toll: Deutsche Bank prided itself on dreaming up complex derivatives and other securities. 
 ''But it's not only the banks that made mistakes,'' he said. ''Monetary policy was clearly very generous for a very long time, and helped to create these kinds of bubbles. The regulatory framework had deficits too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Josef Ackermann, Deutsche Bank's chief executive: ''There are lessons to be learned. We will see a flight to quality and simplicity.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORST FRIEDRICHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CREDIT MUTUEL (50%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

JOSEF ACKERMANN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



28 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Governor Looks to Washington for a Bailout

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Amplifying his case that New York faces a grave financial crisis, Gov. David A. Paterson asked the federal government on Thursday for assistance and said that social programs like education and health care were not immune from cutbacks.
 His remarks, delivered to the National Press Club just before meetings with members of Congress; the treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.; and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, were the surest sign yet that the governor and the State Legislature were headed toward a confrontation over where to trim the budget.
 Two of the Legislature's leaders, Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, have been explicit in their opposition to any cuts in school financing. 
 Mr. Paterson's trip to Washington was part of a carefully orchestrated and highly visible effort by the governor to put a spotlight on the state's financial problems. In a televised address on Tuesday, he said he would call the Legislature back from recess for a special session on Aug. 19 to address next fiscal year's projected budget shortfall, which he announced had grown to $6.4 billion from $5 billion in the past three months. And on Wednesday, he asked the Legislature to help cut $1.2 billion out of this year's budget.
 But his comments on Thursday raised the ante even higher as he identified for the first time specific programs that could face cuts. 
 ''I don't have to tell state officials the areas that we're obviously going to have to cut. They're going to be the areas where we spend a lot of money -- in our educational system, which we desperately need as an investment for our future, in our health care facilities,'' Mr. Paterson said after his speech.
 He later added: ''No area is sacred because we face such a skyrocketing deficit.''
 He coupled his calls to rein in state spending with a promise that New York would not forget to help residents who are losing their jobs and their homes. 
 ''Government is more than just balancing budgets,'' he said. ''We balance budgets, but we must also balance priorities. Compassion is not optional; neither is common sense.''
 Mr. Paterson said the federal government also had a critical role in aiding New York's recovery, and he asked Congress to provide the state with assistance for various programs, like heating oil subsidies for low-income households, and help to improve the state's infrastructure, like highways and waste treatment plants. 
 ''We are going to have to turn to the federal government for help,'' said Mr. Paterson, who did not put a dollar amount on the assistance the state needs. ''The federal government is going to have to put more into the states that support it in the next couple of years before we have what will be a national crisis.''
 New York, which as one of the largest and wealthiest states contributes a significant portion of federal tax revenue, does not appear to be getting its fair share in return, he said.
 But it is far from certain that the federal government will be willing -- or even able -- to assist states at a time when it faces a projected record deficit next year, having to pay for two wars and facing a contracting national economy. 
 Mr. Paterson acknowledged that New York may not be able to look to Washington for all of the assistance it needed.
 ''I'm optimistic about the meetings, but I don't want to count my eggs before they hatch,'' he said as he left a meeting in the Capitol with Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.
 Mr. Dodd, who said he was startled to learn from Mr. Paterson that New York's tax revenue from Wall Street had plummeted so far, cautioned that states should not expect Washington to rescue them. 
 If states expect a check from the federal government, Mr. Dodd said, ''the checks -- they just aren't there.''
 In his remarks at the National Press Club, Mr. Paterson was not all gloom and doom. He sprinkled humor into his grim pronouncements on the health of the state's economy. After the speech, he was asked what lessons he had drawn from the scandal that brought down his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, who was caught on tape arranging to meet a prostitute in a Washington hotel.
 ''Be careful when you come to Washington,'' Mr. Paterson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (60%); DISMISSALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



29 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
international
 STICKING UP FOR CHaVEZ, 
 A New Church Fuels Debate
 The defection of a handful of priests in Venezuela and their formation of the Reformed Catholic Church, a breakaway church openly sympathetic to President Hugo Chavez's government yet oddly allied with conservative Anglicans from Texas, has raised the ire of Roman Catholic leaders in Venezuela. Since its founding in June, the church has fueled a new debate over the interplay of religion and politics in one of Latin America's most secular nations. PAGE A9
 EX-LEADER'S WIFE IS CONVICTED
 In the first verdict in a series of corruption cases aimed at the former Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, his wife was convicted of tax evasion and sentenced to three years in prison. More than 1,000 supporters, some carrying red roses, crowded around the family as they left the courthouse. Four corruption cases have been filed against Mr. Thaksin himself, two against his wife and three against two of his children. PAGE A7 
 I.O.C. DENIES DEAL WITH CHINA
 In a reversal of previous statements, the International Olympic Committee said it had never agreed to an arrangement that allows the Chinese authorities to limit Internet access to foreign journalists during the Games. PAGE A7
 MEDVEDEV TO TACKLE CORRUPTION
 Russia's new president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has staked his tenure on curbing what he acknowledges is the country's rampant corruption, announced that he was pressing ahead with a national plan to combat corruption that would include increased enforcement and more disclosure of officials' personal finances. In recent days, Mr. Medvedev and his advisers have tried to give assurances that the economy has a vibrant future, and the stock market has stabilized. PAGE A6
 RESIGNATION DIMS HOPES FOR DEAL
 The official line in Washington, Jerusalem and Ramallah is that the decision by Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel to resign will not affect American efforts to negotiate a peace deal between Israelis and Palestinians before the end of the year. But foreign policy experts say the Bush administration's efforts are unlikely to bear fruit. ''It's over,'' said one analyst with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. PAGE A11 
 ABBAS SAID TO RELEASE ACTIVISTS
 The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, ordered his security services to release all pro-Hamas activists arrested in the occupied West Bank this week, the official Palestinian news agency Wafa reported. PAGE A11 
 NATIONAL
 MILITARY JUDGE IN DETAINEE CASE
 Closes Courtroom for First Time
 As military prosecutors rested their case against Osama bin Laden's former driver, Salim Hamdan, the military judge for the first time closed the courtroom to reporters and other observers so the tribunal could hear testimony in secret. The secret session was one signal of a new stage for the trial, which has moved from being a largely open proceeding to one studded with references to classified information that was not mentioned in public. PAGE A13 
 BIG LOSSES FOR BIG SUR
 Visitors are finally returning to Big Sur, Calif., the rugged coastal area of vintage motels, upscale resorts and deep-rooted counterculture where fires have caused evacuations and road closures for almost a month. Firefighters have declared the blazes under control, but the local economy is another story. The Big Sur Chamber of Commerce estimates the fires' toll at $10 million to $15 million. As campgrounds reopen, and hotel workers clean the soot from linens, the goal most everywhere is salvaging what is left of the summer season. PAGE A12 
 AT LEAST 8 DIE IN MINNESOTA CRASH
 A plane that was navigating through harsh thunderstorms crashed as it was trying to land at an airport in southern Minnesota, killing at least eight people, the Federal Aviation Administration and local authorities said. Most of the people onboard were customers of Viracon, a glass manufacturer that supplied the exterior glass for a number of noted buildings and is based in Owatonna, Minn. PAGE A13 
 REVISION OF SPY ORDER IS APPROVED
 President Bush has approved a long-awaited revision of the executive order that governs the nation's 16 spy agencies, the latest effort to wrestle the bureaucracies into a single effort under the director of national intelligence. The revised version ratifies the major reshuffling of intelligence carried out by Congress in 2004, when a law created the new post of director of national intelligence atop all the agencies. PAGE A15 
 JUDGE QUESTIONS CONVENTION SUIT
 A federal trial in a lawsuit seeking to ease strict security provisions at the Democratic National Convention ended in Denver with repeated questions from the judge about how the rules impinge on free speech, as the groups behind the lawsuit have charged. The groups say the security concerns are exaggerated. PAGE A15 
 SAN DIEGO CROSS TO STAY PUT
 A cross that looms over San Diego from a hilltop can stay put, a federal judge ruled, turning aside complaints that its presence violates the United States Constitution. The fight is among the longest-running involving a monument and questions of the separation of church and state. PAGE A16 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 GREAT BRAZILIAN LOTTERY RUMOR
 Echoes Around World
 Though likely untrue, the tale of a Brazilian winner of New Jersey's Mega Millions lottery drawing of July 22 (jackpot: $126 million) reveals a world made small by modern telecommunications, media and travel, where rumors in one immigrant corner of one American city can quickly reverberate back home, even if home is thousands of miles and a hemisphere away. PAGE A20 
 NO CHARGES IN FATAL SHOOTING
 A grand jury has decided not to indict Winston Alladin, a Queens man who fatally stabbed a 15-year-old girl who he said was part of a mob of teenagers attacking him after an argument on a bus. Mr. Alladin is expected to be turned over to federal custody at the request of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The agency did not say why. PAGE A20 
 Behind the MetroCard Malfunctions A20 
 BUSINESS
 FEDERAL OFFICIALS PREDICT WORKERS
 Will Press for Wage Increases
 The movement of jobs offshore, or the threat of it, has conditioned workers to not even ask for a raise, fearing they will join the millions already laid off. But the Federal Reserve's policy makers are convinced that wage pressures could soon emerge. The concern showed up in interviews with policy makers over the last week. PAGE C1 
 NEW JERSEY PAPER WANTS BUYOUTS
 The Star-Ledger of Newark and a smaller sister paper in Trenton need to eliminate at least 20 percent of their staffs and win concessions from trade unions to stay afloat, their management said, or their owner will sell the papers. The Star-Ledger's publisher says the paper must have 200 nonunion workers take buyouts. PAGE C2 
 DELAYS IN AIRPLANE ORDERS
 Despite a backlog of airplane orders stretching for years at both Airbus and Boeing, aircraft manufacturers are seeing troubling signs. High fuel prices helped cause major airlines in the United States to lose more than $6 billion in the second quarter. Companies are grounding older planes, eliminating flights and routes and putting off plans to update their fleets. PAGE C4 
 CIGARETTE SMUGGLING CASE SETTLED
 Two Canadian tobacco companies agreed to pay criminal fines and civil penalties of about 1.15 billion Canadian dollars after admitting to aiding cigarette smugglers. Had Canadian taxes been paid on the cigarettes, shipped tax-free to the United States, the government would have received $3 billion to $10 billion Canadian dollars. PAGE C4 
 Growth in Outdoor Advertising C3 
 Weekend
 TEXTURES INSIDE THE BLACK,
 Technology Amid the Art
 Out of envy of his mortality, the pantheon of Greek gods tormented man. Does impermanence make a thing sweeter? Maybe. Ad Reinhardt's ''Black Paintings'' are fragile and prone to smudges, marks and scuffs. When the Guggenheim received one scarred painting, the museum used it to test new techniques of restoration, and documented the process in ''Imageless: The Scientific Study and Experimental Treatment of an Ad Reinhardt Black Painting.'' PAGE E25 
 ON A CONCRETE WALKABOUT FOR LOVE
 Ah, Craigslist -- where one can find anything. In ''In Search of a Midnight Kiss,'' two people looking for love in all the electronic places walk the streets of Los Angeles and the somewhat barren, pothole-ridden world of dating. Owing a debt to Richard Linklater's ''Before Sunrise'' and ''Before Sunset,'' the stop-and-go banter and flirtation make the film manage to create a plausible, inviting world, writes Manohla Dargis. PAGE E6 
 FINAL SUMMER AT THE POOL
 A pool filled not with water but with music, memories and dodge ball, McCarren Park Pool in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, has been host to concerts by M.I.A., Blonde Redhead, TV on the Radio and others. This summer, you'd better get the memories while they're hot for the taking. According to a city plan, McCarren will be emptied of music lovers, tattooed flesh, Hula-Hoops and Slip 'n Slides and filled in with water, to become a public swimming pool. PAGE E1 
 A STORY STRAIGHT UP, NO CHASER
 ''Frozen River'' covers a lot of ground: illegal immigration, high gas prices, ethnic tension and poverty. On a landscape of mud and slush, punctuated by trailers and discount stores, two women smuggle illegal immigrants over the Canadian border. Grit, realism and the bond between two desperate people make the movie, which offers no sentimentality to get in the way of the story, Stephen Holden writes. PAGE E8 OBITUARIES
 EILEEN G. SLOCUM, 92
 A doyenne of Newport, R.I., society, she was a stalwart of the Republican Party both in Rhode Island and nationally whose family history is dotted with connections to the most moneyed and powerful of the American aristocracy. PAGE B6 
 J. MURDOCH RITCHIE, 83
 A biophysicist at Yale, he used a potent neurotoxin derived from shellfish to help trace the way nerve cells conduct electrical impulses and famously asked the Central Intelligence Agency to share its supply of the poison with scientists. PAGE B6 
 ESCAPES
 ISLAND HOPPING BY KAYAK AT AMERICA'S CEILING
 Despite their name, the Apostle Islands, in northern Wisconsin, number 22, not 12. Which is partly why the best way to view them is by kayak. Paddling from island to island, you can behold their six outstanding lighthouses, now on the National Register of Historic Places. PAGE F8 
 BUT IS THE WATER ACTUALLY FINE?
 There is evidence that beachgoers are facing an invisible threat: contamination from storm water, which washes, among other things, pet waste, bird droppings, motor oil and cigarette butts into sewers, and then into rivers, lakes and the sea. ''You don't necessarily see it,'' said the director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's clean water project. PAGE F1 
 A WORKING GETAWAY FOR ACTORS
 Sande Shurin, an acting coach and director, has a second home in Woodstock, N.Y., a barn-like contemporary with two wings: one for her and her husband, the other for visiting actors. The six-bedroom, two-bathroom guesthouse holds up to 12 people for the various acting seminars Ms. Shurin holds there every year. PAGE F1 
 Cooking Without Walls F2 
 Really Bad Golf Courses F6 
 Where Lakes Loom Large F3 
 SPORTS
 RUSSIAN OLYMPIANS SUSPENDED
 For Doping Violations
 A sting operation conducted over the past 16 months resulted in the doping suspension of seven female Russian track and field athletes, five of them Olympians, bringing international embarrassment and dealing a potentially severe blow to the country's medal chances in middle-distance running and field events at the coming Beijing Games. PAGE D1 
 THE SECRET CURSE OF EXPERT ARCHERS
 There is an affliction so feared by elite archers that many in the sport refuse to even speak its name. Archery coaches are sworn not to reveal the identities of archers in its grip. Target panic, as it is known, causes crack shots to suddenly lose control of their bows, and their composure. PAGE D1 
 LOST IN THE MOVE: DIEHARD FANS
 A 75-year-old former union lithographer named Lou Palma is furious at the fan-gouging sports world in general and the Giants in particular. He is one of the diehard fans who in two years will watch his team move into a $1.6 billion luxury palace -- without him. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE D3 
 Editorial
 'THE JUNGLE,' AGAIN
 By treating illegal, low-wage workers as a de facto criminal class, the government is trying to inflate the menace they pose to a level that justifies its extreme efforts to capture and punish them. That is a fraudulent exercise and a national disgrace. PAGE A18
 AFTER THE GLITTERING AIDS BILL
 President Bush has signed into law an important bill that authorizes greatly increased American spending to fight AIDS. The only hitch is whether the money will actually materialize. PAGE A18
 THE COST OF OIL SUBSIDIES
 Across the developing world, governments are subsidizing energy, blunting the incentive to conserve by keeping prices low. They are absorbing the savings made by industrial countries and pushing up oil prices by stoking demand. PAGE A18
 op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 I'm very glad to know that Nancy Pelosi is trying to save the planet. I just wish I had more confidence that she's going to succeed. PAGE A19
 DAVID BROOKS
 Multipolarity means that more groups have effective veto power over collective action. In practice, this new pluralistic world has given rise to globosclerosis, an inability to solve problem after problem. PAGE A19
 HARVESTING MONEY
 In an Op-Ed article, Victor Davis Hanson, a farmer and Hoover Institution scholar, argues that Western powers aren't as upset as they claim to be over the failure of the latest round of World Trade Organization talks. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); JUDGES (75%); VERDICTS (75%); MILITARY OFFENSES (75%); SENTENCING (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); TAX FRAUD (75%); PRISONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); HAMAS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); WRITERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); EHUD OLMERT (57%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); THAILAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



30 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: They Will Survive

BYLINE: By DAVID WALLIS

 BODY:
UNLESS John D. McCann, the managing director of Survival Resources, based in Hyde Park, N.Y., is wearing a suit for some sort of business meeting, he always carries in his pants pocket an Altoids tin. There are no mints inside it. Instead, he painstakingly packs the tin -- which he explains can double as a mini-frying pan if you're ever marooned in the wilderness -- with a remarkable assortment of worst-case scenario supplies. 
 The contents include -- but are not limited to -- matches that Mr. McCann hand-dips in Thompson's WaterSeal to waterproof them, a tiny magnesium fire starter, a small lens for igniting fires should the matches and magnesium fire starter fail, an L.E.D. flashlight, a button-size compass, a thin square of mirror to signal potential rescuers, 20 water purification tablets, a meticulously folded freezer bag to store potable water, a packet of antibiotic ointment, butterfly bandages, a sewing bobbin with 20 feet of fishing line, a dozen hooks, six weights, laminated instructions on tying knots and snare wire for capturing small animals. All in one Altoids tin. 
 Survival Resources markets primitive-living provisions, and Mr. McCann, 55, also teaches survival kit design, among other do-or-die subjects, to students attending its Survival Skills Weekends in Verona, N.Y., near Syracuse. Consider it an Eagle Scout crash course for adults. 
 After signing an ominous insurance waiver, paying tuition of $225 (since increased to $285), and packing a tent, knife, compass and assorted just-add-water meals, I joined three other students around a campfire for orientation on a Friday evening late in June. 
 Camp consists of a stone fire pit, a field kitchen and a classroom constructed of camouflage tarps lashed to log supports. A grove of cedars surrounds and perfumes the site, which Mr. McCann and his fiancee and fellow instructor, Denise Vogler, built on a friend's land, using mainly hand tools. Walking through fields speckled with wildflowers and into the circle of tall trees evokes a fairy tale -- you expect to be greeted by talking bears. But civilization intrudes: the whoosh of traffic from nearby Interstate 90 punctures the illusion. 
 Mr. McCann, a wiry man wearing a wide-brimmed olive-green hat wrapped with braided parachute cord (perfect for turning tarps into tents), prefers not to march novices deep into the wild. He cited the case of a 29-year-old New Jersey man who died in 2006 from dehydration while on a desert survival course offered by a competing school in Utah. 
 ''You can't let people die in your class,'' said Mr. McCann, who is a former Marine drill instructor. Aside from his salty language and appropriation of the unofficial Marine Corps motto ''Improvise, adapt, overcome,'' he apparently left the stereotypical in-your-face, give-me-50 training style on Parris Island. Though upon request he demonstrated how to immobilize the enemy and showed off old scars from a knife fight, he played it close to the Kevlar vest when I asked about post-military exploits. And he showed a soft side, unabashedly cuddling Ms. Vogler and speaking with emotion about his late father: ''A big Irish man, my dad. There ain't nothing he couldn't do in the woods.''
 MR. MCCANN'S school opened in 2005, about the time Hurricane Katrina struck. The indelible images of victims pleading for help from an unresponsive government affected him, as well as some of his students. ''Katrina was a wake-up call,'' said Colleen Williams, nibbling a s'more. Ms. Williams, a baker with a black belt in karate who lives in a Syracuse suburb, had given the class to her boyfriend, Eric Koll, for his birthday, and they were there together. She chose Mr. McCann's school to get ''dirt time,'' which she defines as practicing survival techniques previously experienced only on instructional videos. Mr. Koll hoped this course might lead him to a career in wilderness education.
 Peter Tourian, a biology teacher from South Orange, N.J., signed up in part to prepare himself for any threats that might arise -- ''being a husband, there's a natural instinct to protect'' -- and after witnessing frightening disorder in the school where he teaches. ''When a kid pulled out a machete in the lunchroom, that really changed my thinking,'' he said. 
 Like many Manhattanites, I packed a ''go bag'' after Sept. 11, but my inspiration to enroll in survival school had less to do with faltering homeland security than with failings of my own. I am, admittedly, not very handy. My wife affectionately refers to me as ''Magoo.'' The course seemed like an opportunity for a city boy to get in touch with his inner backwoodsman. 
 On Saturday morning school started with a rhetorical question and answer from Mr. McCann: ''What is your most important survival tool? Your brain. You are not going to have the tendency to leave that at home.'' 
 Second only to the brain, he said, is a sharp knife. In a survival scenario -- say, your Cessna goes down in the jungle or you just get lost while hiking -- you can rely on a knife for many useful tasks, from skinning dinner to splitting firewood. With a word from Mr. McCann, Ms. Vogler, a cheery former home economics teacher, grabbed a big knife from a sheath on her thigh. Brandishing a Crocodile Dundee-style blade, she reduced a log to kindling with a few chops. 
 Mr. McCann recommends that students carry a fixed blade (rather than an inherently weaker folding one), with a single sharpened edge. ''Double-edged blades are meant for one thing,'' he said. ''Self-defense.'' He carries a folding knife as a backup but deems the popular Swiss Army knife impractical. ''What am I going to use a Phillips screwdriver for in the woods?'' he asked. ''I've never had to unscrew a tree.'' 
 Mr. McCann and Ms. Vogler took turns teaching subjects like navigation and signaling. Even a Joe Cocker CD, I learned, can reflect sunlight and alert rescuers. In general, they avoided fear-mongering. The fine line between promoting preparedness and fostering paranoia blurred just once. ''The most aggressive wildlife out there is probably other humans,'' Ms. Vogler warned. ''Don't get friendly with people you don't know. Use a walking stick, something you can keep people at a distance with.''
 Much of Saturday afternoon was spent around the fire pit. ''Play with fire, please,'' Mr. McCann prompted us. ''Get good with fire.'' In addition to cooking food and generating warmth, fire bolsters the morale of would-be survivors. ''In a survival situation you're scared,'' Mr. McCann said. ''You're lost. You get a fire going. You are now warm. Maybe you are cooking a squirrel or just purifying some water to make some pine needle tea, and all of a sudden you've got a friend with you.'' 
 Out of a tackle box, he pulled out tinder fashioned from his own recipe: cotton balls moistened with petroleum jelly. A vial holds about 15 compressed, greasy orbs, which can burn for at least two minutes when expanded and lighted. Organic alternatives include cattails and curly birch bark. For his finale, he shaped some extra-fine steel wool into a fibrous horseshoe and touched the ends to the positive and negative contacts of the battery from his cellphone. Sparks flew, and the steel wool erupted in flames. His audience audibly gasped.
 For the rest of the weekend we practiced what our instructors preached, carving wood, starting fires and even turning soda cans into signal whistles. But the most rewarding exercises were the group efforts on Sunday.
 For our first mission, we assembled a branch lift snare for capturing small animals. ''Squirrels are easy to catch and good to eat,'' Mr. McCann assured us. Most states prohibit snaring, he said, but the rule in the wilderness is to survive first and worry about legalities later. 
 Using twigs, my classmates built what looked like the front of a soccer goal with a noose of brass wire hanging from the top bar down to just inches from the ground, about the height of an average squirrel's head. Parachute cord connected the snare to a bent sapling branch, ready to act as a catapult and launch our catch up and away from other predators. Mr. McCann maneuvered a brown stuffed animal with floppy white ears into the snare. It worked perfectly, strangling the prey. We cheered as the captured toy twisted in the air.
 Our final test required the construction of an improvised A-frame shelter. Mr. McCann stressed the importance of a suitable building site, near both water and fuel for a fire but away from ''widow makers,'' dead tree limbs that can fall on campers. ''It's going to kill you before a bear,'' he said. 
 TO take advantage of body heat, an effective shelter must be snug, Mr. McCann explained. Many rookies mistakenly erect a McMansion when a garden shed will do. We marched to a wooded area, and Mr. Koll spotted a tree with a twinned trunk that would serve as the shelter's vertical support. We wedged a branch about six feet long into the crook at a roughly 30-degree angle. This became the ridge pole supporting the walls -- layers of sticks, ferns and assorted leaves. Three of us took turns slithering into the cramped crypt, an experience Mr. Koll equated to ''being buried alive.''
 When it was Mr. Tourian's turn, he hesitated. ''Claustrophobic?'' I asked him.
 ''Um, I'm grossaphobic,'' he responded. His reluctance didn't survive peer pressure, and he shimmied into the cavity.
 Later, clutching his gold-embossed diploma, Mr. Tourian thanked Mr. McCann and complimented him on successfully keeping the class on schedule, high praise from a professional teacher. Mr. McCann was touched. ''I'm glad you liked it,'' he said. ''Most people call me anal. I'm not anal. I'm organized.''
 MORE INFORMATION
 There is no umbrella group or association of survival schools, and no accrediting body. Several of the more established schools are listed on Equipped to Survive, at www.equipped.org/srvschol.htm.
 In Verona, N.Y., at least two more survival skills weekends, $285 a person, will be held this summer by Survival Resources (845-471-2434; www.bepreparedtosurvive.com): Aug. 8 to 10 and Sept. 5 to 7. John McCann, managing director of the company, also offers private lessons for groups.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW FLAME: Denise Vogler, an instructor at Survival Resources, makes a morning fire without matches in Verona, N.Y.
LEAN-TO FOR TEA: Colleen Williams hunkers down in an improvised shelter, above. Brewing up pine needle tea, right.
CURIOUSLY SAFE: John D. McCann shows a Survival Resources class how to pack an Altoids tin with survival gear.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LES STONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F6) CHART: Bring a Knife: There is no umbrella group or association of survival schools, and no accrediting body. Several of the more established schools are listed on Equipped to Survive, at www.equipped.org/ srvschol.htm. In Verona, N.Y., at least two more survival skills weekends, $285 a person, will be held this summer by Survival Resources (845-471-2434
 www.bepreparedtosurvive. com): Aug. 8 to 10 and Sept. 5 to 7. John McCann, managing director of the company, also offers private lessons for groups. (pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); WILDLIFE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); TUITION FEES (65%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (53%); DESERTS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008



31 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vehicle Sales Fall 13.2% Amid High Gas Prices and Tight Credit

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
Vehicle sales in the United States fell last month to their lowest level in 16 years, as consumers continued to shun large trucks because of high gas prices, and tight credit kept less creditworthy customers off lots. 
 Sales were down 13.2 percent, at a time when the companies had expected to begin seeing an improvement.
 Instead, the five largest automakers each reported sales declines on Friday. Sales fell 26.1 percent at General Motors, the largest car company, while Chrysler, which used to be the third-largest, reported a 28.8 percent decline and came within a few thousand sales of falling to sixth place. The Ford Motor Company posted a 14.7 percent decline. 
 Together, the three Detroit automakers accounted for just 42.7 percent of the vehicle market last month, selling about 150,000 fewer vehicles than they had a year earlier.
 The declines in the United States market affected foreign automakers too.
 Toyota Motor reported an 11.9 percent decline, while Honda, which builds fewer trucks than its rivals and was the only large automaker to report a sales increase for the first half of the year, said its July sales decreased 1.6 percent. Nissan's sales rose 8.5 percent on strong demand for its small cars.
 As recently as this spring, executives in Detroit forecast that auto sales would rebound in the second half of 2008, as consumers spent their federal rebate checks and overcame difficulties in the housing market. But the July sales figures suggest that will not be the case. 
 In fact, the industry's annualized sales rate of 12.55 million was its lowest since April 1992, showing that the market is continuing to deteriorate. 
 Soaring borrowing costs for the automakers' financing arms and other lenders have led to higher automotive loan rates and tighter credit standards, which have cut sharply into sales. G.M. said it is losing 10,000 sales a month that it used to get from customers with below-average credit ratings.
 ''In the next several months, or even the next year I would say, the unfolding credit situation that customers are facing in dealerships will take center stage,'' said James D. Farley, Ford's marketing chief. ''A lot more creativity has to take place in the finance and insurance office to sell a car now.'' 
 Meanwhile, leases are becoming significantly harder to obtain, with Chrysler no longer offering leases through its financing arm. 
 G.M. and Ford said on Friday that they will cut back on leasing but remain committed to that business.
 Falling sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks have caused resale values of those vehicles to plummet, and that has turned many leases into huge money losers for the automakers. Unprofitable leases led to write-downs of $2.1 billion for Ford and $716 million for G.M.'s financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which it partly owns. GMAC this week halted subsidies for leases in Canada.
 ''All the risk, all the liability and all the expense is being put onto the consumer with this move away from leasing,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm Global Insight. ''There may be unintended consequences to this move, and they may be unpleasantly surprised that consumers walk away and go someplace else.''
 About 20 percent of customers lease vehicles, according to J. D. Power & Associates' Power Information Network. Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s vice president for North American sales and marketing, said G.M. hoped to cut leasing so that it accounted for between 10 and 15 percent of its business.
 ''It's a move that we have to make to reduce our risk in the marketplace,'' said Mr. LaNeve. ''If the industry can see its way through this, it's going to give us much higher quality of sale and a much higher profit per vehicle.''
 Chrysler said Friday that it would offer 72-month financing deals so that customers could buy a car with monthly payments similar to leases to ease the transition away from leasing.
 Ford estimated that total light vehicle sales this year would be 13.7 million to 14.2 million, a considerable drop from the first half's annualized rate of 15 million. In 2007, automakers sold more than 16.1 million vehicles in the United States.
 Ford said that its car sales were up 7.8 percent last month, but that sales of S.U.V.'s, a segment that used to generate huge profits for all three Detroit automakers, plunged 54.4 percent. G.M. sold 18.9 percent fewer cars and 34.7 percent fewer light trucks.
 At Toyota, car sales were roughly flat because of shortages of some models, while sales of pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s dropped 27 percent.
 Summer is typically a strong season for the automakers, as they unload their remaining inventory from the old model year and begin selling new vehicles. But $4-a-gallon gas and a sluggish economy have kept many consumers who might normally be in the market for a new car away from dealerships.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Ford plant in Oakville, Ontario. The automaker reported that sales in the United States fell 15 percent in July from a year ago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM VARNHAGEN/FORD MOTOR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks.(Source: Autodata) Chart details statistics for each. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES REBATES (74%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (82%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



32 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: A Rough Week With a Sedate Conclusion

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street retreated again Friday after readings on jobs and manufacturing indicated that businesses and workers still face a tough economy. The major indexes ended a turbulent week narrowly mixed.
 A huge quarterly loss at General Motors and rising oil prices also gave investors reason to trade cautiously. But the market was considerably calmer than the first four sessions of the week, when the Dow Jones industrials rose or fell by triple digits each day in response to economic data or news about the financial sector.
 Friday's reports, the first of the third quarter, were not as poor as many analysts had anticipated, probably accounting for the muted reaction. 
 Nonetheless, they portrayed an economy that was still sagging as it entered the second half of the year. The Labor Department said jobs fell for the seventh straight month in July and the unemployment rate rose to 5.7 percent. The report arrived after data Thursday that showed an unexpected jump in jobless claims to a five-year high.
 ''It reinforces the idea that we're seeing a steady, but not dramatic, decline in employment, which is likely to last for some time,'' said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at RDM Financial Group in Westport, Conn.
 Meanwhile, the Institute for Supply Management said manufacturing activity was flat in July. Given Thursday's disappointing report on gross domestic product growth, Wall Street is becoming more certain that the United States is in a recession.
 The flagging economy has sapped consumers' ability to spend freely, which in turn is hurting profits at many big companies. G.M. said it lost $15.5 billion in the second quarter, more than analysts had predicted and the automaker's third-worst loss in its history.
 There was also more bad news about construction; the Commerce Department reported that building activity declined in June. And the price of oil rose $1.02 to $125.10 a barrel.
 The Dow fell 51.70 points, or 0.45 percent, to 11,326.32. The Dow ended the week down 0.39 percent.
 Broader stock indicators also lost ground Friday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.07 points, or 0.56 percent, to 1,260.31, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 14.59 points, or 0.63 percent, to 2,310.96.
 The S&P finished the week up 0.21 percent, and the Nasdaq finished up 0.02 percent.
 Bond prices edged higher in Friday's trading. The 10-year Treasury note was up 2/32, at 99 15/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 3.94 percent, down from 3.95 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.
 Most financial stocks performed well Friday.
 A bond insurer, the Ambac Financial Group, said it agreed to pay $850 million to settle one of its largest exposures to risky debt instruments called collateralized debt obligations. Ambac rose $1.27, or 50 percent, to $3.79, while rival MBIA rose $1.74, or 29 percent, to $7.67.
 Other gainers included a Dow component, the American International Group, up 74 cents, or 2.8 percent, at $26.79; Wachovia, up $1.71, or 9.9 percent, at $18.98; and Lehman Brothers Holdings, up $1.31, or 7.6 percent, at $18.65.
 Shares of G.M., another Dow component, gave up 84 cents, or 7.6 percent, to $10.23 after posting its quarterly loss.
 Meanwhile, a few pharmaceutical stocks suffered sell-offs on Friday. Biogen Idec and Elan fell in response to safety concerns related to the multiple sclerosis therapy Tysabri. Biogen dropped $19.75, or 28 percent, to $50.01, and Elan tumbled $10.12, or 50 percent, to $9.93.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer at a Wachovia Bank A.T.M. Wachovia's stock was up 9.9 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



33 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Sun Microsystems Profit Falls 73% as Customers Cut Spending

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Profit at Sun Microsystems, the computer server maker, declined 73 percent in the most recent quarter as slumping sales to big American companies and reorganization charges weighed on the server and software maker. 
 The company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., also revealed plans Friday to expand its stock buyback program by $1 billion, a sign that Sun believes its shares, which have fallen by 50 percent over the last nine months, are undervalued and poised to rebound.
 Wall Street did not share that optimism.
 Sun's shares sank 12.3 percent, to $9.32, on the company's worse-than-expected guidance, which indicated that the pressures that hurt Sun in the April-June period, its fourth quarter, are affecting the current quarter.
 Sun said before the market opened that it expected a ''slight'' sales decline in its first quarter, which ends in September, and indicated it most likely would not turn a profit. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting flat sales and a profit of 11 cents a share in this quarter.
 The Goldman Sachs analysts David Bailey and Min Park said in a note to clients that Sun's results supply ''another piece of evidence that the problems the company faces have no short-term fixes, and we would continue to avoid the shares.''
 Sun blamed weakness in the American economy, which has caused some of its biggest customers to cut spending, and the sale of fewer higher-end servers, which carry better profit margins. Sun faces intense competition in that market from I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard.
 Sun earned $88 million, or 11 cents a share, in the quarter, compared with $329 million, or 36 cents a share, in the period a year ago.
 Excluding one-time charges, Sun earned 35 cents a share. 
 Sales were $3.78 billion, down from $3.84 billion last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); EVIDENCE (51%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



34 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Automakers Racing Time

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The downturn in the American auto industry is rapidly becoming a full-blown fight for survival among Detroit's big automakers.
 With the combination of high gas prices and a weak economy crippling vehicle sales, the resources of General Motors and the Ford Motor Company are being stretched to the limit. 
 Both companies have undergone major revampings in recent years, yet they continue to post huge losses. And even as they burn through their cash reserves and slash more costs to stay afloat, the future looks tenuous.
 In the latest sign of the deepening troubles, G.M. reported a stunning second-quarter loss of $15.5 billion on Friday because of a continuing fall in United States sales and charges for job cuts, plant closings and the falling value of trucks and sport utility vehicles. 
 That followed a loss of $8.7 billion reported last week by Ford. Overall sales fell by 13 percent in July. 
 Chrysler, the smallest of the three Detroit auto companies, is privately owned by Cerberus Capital Management and does not report financial results.
 The losses stem from a freefall in sales and a shift by consumers away from bigger vehicles that were once G.M.'s and Ford's most profitable products.
 G.M. and Ford had expected economic conditions to improve in the second half of this year, but now are forecasting an even more dismal sales environment. 
 Neither company appears in immediate danger of failure. But analysts say Detroit is in a race against time.
 ''Things are pretty bad, and the river is getting deeper, faster and wider,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''The question is, can they get to other side before the cash runs out?''
 American automakers have decided -- critics would say, belatedly -- to shift production from trucks and sport utility vehicles to smaller, more gas-efficient cars, including hybrids. But it takes time to switch equipment for production. And it is unclear whether the automakers have sufficient cash to remain solvent until their new vehicle lines are ready for customers. 
 The overall United States auto industry is headed for its worst year in more than a decade. Sales so far this year have fallen 10 percent from 2007, including a 13 percent decline in the month of July.
 The market has been tough for nearly every automaker including Toyota, whose sales fell 11.9 percent in July. But the Detroit companies have been hit the hardest.
 Sales at G.M. dropped 26.1 percent in July, 14.7 percent at Ford, and 28.8 percent at Chrysler. And the three companies' combined United States market share hit an all-time low of about 43 percent during the month.
 G.M. ended the quarter with $21 billion in cash reserves, which would be considered a healthy financial cushion in normal times.
 But the automaker is burning through more than $1 billion in cash each month, a worrisome indicator that has prompted some investors to speculate about the potential for G.M. to go bankrupt. One indication of a loss of faith is that the company's bonds were trading on Friday at 48 cents on the dollar.
 Trying to fight such doubts on Wall Street and elsewhere, Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chairman, last month outlined a broad program of cost cuts, asset sales and debt offerings intended to increase the company's liquidity by $15 billion.
 The moves temporarily calmed fears on Wall Street about a possible bankruptcy filing, and injected a renewed sense of urgency among G.M. executives.
 Compounding Detroit's problems is the rush by consumers to buy small cars and the collapse in sales of pickups and sport utility vehicles that historically provided the bulk of the profits at G.M., Ford and Chrysler.
 Ford last week announced that it would radically shift much of its North American production from trucks to cars, and bring six of its European models to the United States market.
 G.M. had already laid plans to make more cars and car-based crossover vehicles, while downsizing its truck production.
 But the question facing Detroit is how it can continue to finance its operations and product programs until the market rebounds and its new models hit the showrooms.
 ''This is almost like evolution, and the survival of the fittest,'' said Jesse Toprak, chief industry analyst for the automobile research Web site Edmunds.com. ''They are on the right path to make fuel-efficient cars, but it's going to take time.''
 G.M., Ford and Chrysler have already gone through wrenching revampings and eliminated more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs in the United States since 2006.
 The three companies are also in the process of cutting about 10,000 salaried workers from their payrolls this year.
 But even as they shrink their employment and close unneeded factories, the automakers still need enormous capital budgets to develop new products. G.M. and Ford have also invested heavily to build their businesses in global markets like China, Brazil and India.
 And while they have successfully expanded their international operations, Detroit is paying a heavy price for relying on trucks and S.U.V.'s in the United States.
 Sales of truck-based products have fallen 23 percent this year at G.M. and 19 percent at Ford. Both companies have drastically cut production of those vehicles, and temporarily laid off thousands of workers to reduce inventories.
 However, the companies have been forced to take big financial charges to account for the declining value of used S.U.V.'s coming off leases. Chrysler is dropping leases entirely and G.M. and Ford will be scaling back their lease programs. Analysts said the pullback on leases, which helped fuel the growth of the market previously, could further hurt sales going forward.
 G.M.'s quarterly loss reported Friday, the third-worst in its 100-year history, encapsulated the range of troubles it faces. 
 The company's revenues in North America declined by a third, and it lost $4.4 billion on operations. Because of the decline in profitable truck sales, G.M.'s revenue-per-unit sold dropped almost $4,000 from the first quarter of this year.
 The company also took write-downs of $9.1 billion. Included in the charges were $3.3 billion to buy out 19,000 of its hourly workers and $2.8 billion related to the bankruptcy of Delphi, its former parts-making division.
 ''I do not see any panic here,'' Ray Young, G.M.'s chief financial officer, said in an interview Friday. ''I do see more of a resolve. We need to take these actions and focus on what we can control.''
 Frederick A. Henderson, G.M.'s president, said the company was accelerating plans to bring more fuel-efficient vehicles to market. The key, he said, was to increase G.M.'s sales and revenues as quickly as possible.
 ''The most important thing we need to do is rebuild our revenue base,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''We understand the market is decidedly weaker, but it is what it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An attendant washing unsold Hummers on a General Motors lot in Massachusetts. Consumers have moved away from bigger vehicles that were once the most profitable products for automakers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FEIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C4) CHART: Hard Times: General Motors and Ford have stumbled because of their longtime reliance on sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks.(Sources: Bloomberg
 company reports) Chart details REVENUE Figures in billions. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); NEW CAR MODELS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); MARKET SHARE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); CLOSINGS (54%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



35 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Expanding in Athletic Gear in a Tough Economy

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
AS far back as his days as a University of Maryland running back, Kevin A. Plank figured there had to be something better than sweat-soaked athletic wear. In 1994, after earning a business degree, he began making moisture-wicking T-shirts in his basement, and has built his company, Under Armour, into one of the most recognizable athletic brands.
 Now Mr. Plank, 35, is expanding into athletic shoes and going up against the giants Nike and Reebok. In May, the company introduced its first line of performance training footwear. Fresh from a pep talk to Sports Authority sales people in Rockville, Md., Mr. Plank sat down to talk about the company: 
 Q.At a time when retail sales and discretionary spending are down, why are you introducing three new footwear products?
 A. We certainly didn't know that a year ago when we picked the date. But I don't think that would have deterred us. We're going after the fall sport athlete. 
 Q.Why the cross-trainer category, which you say yourself has been a dormant footwear category?
 A. It's the same reason we went after football cleats -- because our customer asked us for it. We learn a lot online, we listen a lot and we hear they want something to train in because the way today's athlete is training is very different than five or six years ago. There's need for a lateral stability movement, and that requires something different than a linear built running shoe. So our campaign's theme is: Stop training in running shoes.
 Q.So how is your shoe different?
 A. Walk into a gym today, and I bet eight or nine out of 10 people will be wearing a running shoe, but the activities that they are doing would be much more diverse. Our shoe allows you to run in a straight line like the running shoe, but it also gives you lateral stability that allows you to balance left and right, front and back, of course, and also gives you straight up and down movement.
 Q.How can Under Armour compete with goliaths like Nike?
 A. Under Armour controls its own destiny. We believe there are better fabrics, better technology and better innovations, and because of our big share of the market, people are going to try us. I've been in this business long enough to know our biggest competition is ourselves -- making sure we can execute.
 Q.Under Armour reported a 75 percent drop in its second-quarter profit, after one nearly as big -- 71 percent -- in its first quarter. Is the sports apparel market saturated and a reason why you're moving into shoes?
 A. It was all planned. We spent nearly 18 percent in marketing in the first quarter versus about 11 percent in the first quarter last year. And then we spent another 14.4 percent in the second quarter, which is also up. That was due to timing of the launch. 
 Q.Even so, can you make up sales and profits with footwear, which is a lower-margin category than apparel?
 A. There's investment required to enter the footwear market. To be the world's No. 1 athletic sporting goods brand, we need to be a player in footwear.
 We're in a growth and investment period right now, and we have five growth engines. The first is our core men's apparel, which was up 14 percent over the first six months of this year. A second is our core women's apparel, and that was up 27 percent in the same period. We also will grow our footwear business, and ultimately make it larger than apparel. Our international business is another component, and the fifth is our direct consumer business, including our Web site and factory stores. 
 Q.Where are the shoes made, and with rising manufacturing costs, how will that affect you?
 A. In China. Any cost increase will be offset on our side by volume increases.
 Q.Your biggest increases in growth on a percentage basis have been apparel sales to women and children -- how are you going to continue to build on that?
 A. The company grew 53 percent in 2006 and 41 percent in 2007. Our latest guidance says we'll grow another 26 to 28 percent this year in a 95 percent U.S.-based business. We've felt the strain from the market, but we've continued to outperform all others in the spaces where we play. 
 Q.Have you trimmed your plans to open retail and outlet stores?
 A. We have a full-priced store that opened in Annapolis, and another just outside of Chicago that opened in May. We'll open a third outside Boston later this month. And we'll have 25 to 26 factory stores by the end of the year. We're moving forward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin A. Plank (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNDER ARMOUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ATHLETES (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); SALES FORCE (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); RETAIL SALES (70%)

COMPANY: UNDER ARMOUR INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%)

TICKER: UA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: KEVIN PLANK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



36 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Where Crane Fell, Foreclosure Looms

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer of a high-rise apartment house on the East Side of Manhattan where a construction crane collapsed in March, killing seven people, now faces foreclosure and the loss of the entire property. 
 All work on the concrete hulk of what would have been a sleek 43-story tower at 303 East 51st Street ceased after the accident more than four months ago. City officials rejected the developer's revised construction plans in June and revoked his building permit.
 On July 25, the developer's lender, Arbor Realty Funding L.L.C., began a foreclosure action in State Supreme Court in Manhattan against the developer, James P. Kennelly, for failure to repay $70.4 million in overdue project loans. Arbor is seeking to sell the property to satisfy the loans. 
 It could be sometime next year before the fate of the project is resolved. In the meantime, it casts a pall over the neighborhood and serves as a constant reminder of the Saturday afternoon that the 22-story tower crane crashed to the street, killing seven and forcing 17 nearby buildings and hundreds of residents to be evacuated. The unfinished building, which rises 18 stories above Second Avenue, is shrouded in orange safety netting and is illuminated at night.
 If he obtained new financing, Mr. Kennelly could still repay the loans. But in the current economy, real estate executives and bankers say, it has become increasingly difficult for developers to obtain loans for real estate projects, particularly one as troubled as Mr. Kennelly's. The litigation could go on for months, and any new owner would have to get approval from the Buildings Department to resume construction.
 Calls to Mr. Kennelly, a firefighter turned developer, were referred to his spokesman, Michael McKeon. Mr. McKeon declined to comment.
 ''We are exercising our right to foreclose the mortgages on the property,'' said Raymond N. Hannigan of Herrick, Feinstein, a lawyer for Arbor Realty.
 Jessica S. Lappin, a member of the City Council who lives nearby, said she was disheartened to learn that the site would remain in limbo. Many residents, she said, were apprehensive about it because they continued to worry about its safety.
 After what happened, she said, ''People in the community want something to come back to the community, whether it's a school or open space.''
 ''We need both in this area, desperately,'' she said.
 Local residents had been raising questions about safety on the construction site for months before the accident. And a community group, the Turtle Bay Association, said the city's Buildings Department had largely ignored its complaints about the building's 43-story height, as well as its balconies.
 The March 15 accident, the first of two major crane accidents in Manhattan this year, highlighted a rising tide of construction accidents amid the current building boom and embarrassed the Bloomberg administration. Since then, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and City Council members have called for new safety standards and stricter training and enforcement.
 But it was not until after the accident that Patricia J. Lancaster, then the buildings commissioner, revealed that the city had had serious reservations about Mr. Kennelly's project, which, she said, did not conform to zoning regulations and whose design never should have been approved.
 Ms. Lancaster was later forced to resign.
 For Mr. Kennelly, the 43-story apartment tower was to have been the high point of his career as a developer. He had been involved with about two dozen smaller renovation projects since the mid-1980's. But the building on East 51st Street, with 180 condominiums, was the largest by far. He bought a series of adjacent parcels on Second Avenue and East 51st Street for the project and obtained approval for a 43-story tower.
 But in February, when the tower was already up to the eighth floor, the Buildings Department began reviewing the local zoning and the project's building permits, not because of community complaints, but because one of the developer's prospective lenders asked for a letter reaffirming city approvals.
 In an interview earlier this year, Phyllis Arnold, the Buildings Department's deputy commissioner for legal affairs, said officials determined that the site permitted a 33-story tower atop a broad base, not the sheer tower the developer had designed.
 The department also found that the building was too close to an adjoining four-story building and that its balconies jutted over other properties.
 The two sides were working out a compromise when the accident occurred. It is now the subject of a criminal investigation by the Manhattan district attorney's office, as well as separate inquiries by the Buildings Department and the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
 Hoping to resume construction, Mr. Kennelly submitted revised building plans. 
 But the city sent him a letter in May outlining its continuing objections to his plans and revoked his building permit altogether in June.
 In the meantime, about two dozen contractors and unions filed liens against the property, according to the lawsuit filed by Arbor Realty. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The tower at 303 East 51st Street where a crane fell in March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The scene on March 15 of a crane collapse on the East Side of Manhattan. Seven people died.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LITIGATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



37 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: The Next Step for World Trade

 BODY:
The battle lines of the new world order were exposed at the World Trade Organization this week. The breakdown of the Doha round of trade negotiations over a clash between the United States and China and India about farm protections underscored how these new economic giants are changing the balance of power. 
 The collapse of the seven-year effort to further reduce trade barriers is regrettable, not least because it aimed to increase the access of the poorest countries to rich-country markets. But it lays the groundwork to develop a better way to discuss global trade. 
 Perhaps it was inevitable that the Doha round, as the talks are known, would fail. With a narrow agenda centered on giving market access to poor countries, little incentive was offered to the leading trading nations to compromise. The talks were left behind by the real world, as many developing countries unilaterally reduced trade barriers below their legal commitments and farm subsidies in rich countries fell automatically as food prices rose.
 While the failure does not mean disaster for world trade, there is a risk that it could undermine faith in the rule-based multilateral trading system. Already, the enormous subsidies that are allowed in this year's farm bill suggest that the United States is backsliding from its goal of freer farm trade. As the Doha round of talks limped along for seven years, the United States and other countries rushed to sign preferential trade agreements on the sly, potentially snagging world trade in a spaghetti bowl of competing deals. 
 It will not be simple to recapture the momentum lost in the Doha talks. At the very least, substantive discussion about trade will need to wait until the next American administration. But the world's powers might make use of the hiatus to reflect on how best to build on the system of policy coordination that guides world trade.
 A strong W.T.O. will be needed to arbiter trade disputes as the world economy slows and protectionist urges simmer. But the W.T.O. needs a broader agenda to get stakeholders interested in more open trading.
 The Doha talks did not do much for anybody, not even for the least-developed countries. Granting them concessions like duty-free access on 97 percent of their products sounded great -- except most of the tariffs levied on poor country exports are aimed at that 3 percent.
 Much future negotiating must occur between developing countries, who account for the bulk of existing trade barriers. These days, industrialists in India mostly want protection against imports from China, not the United States. Perhaps the biggest loser from India's and China's resistance to lower farm tariffs was the agricultural powerhouse Brazil. The North-South frame of the Doha negotiations ignored these cleavages. 
 The agenda could also be broadened in other ways to incorporate the interests of the big new players. Bringing services -- including those involving the movement of people -- more fully under the roof of the W.T.O. would provide an enormous incentive for India, a large services exporter. Issues like rules covering the inspection of cargo at ports are likely to become more important as countries deal with national security concerns.
 The notion of the grand negotiating trade round involving all W.T.O. members might have to be replaced by more manageable formats. The opening of trade in services, for instance, might be hammered out by smaller groups of exporters. Other countries could accede to the deal if they wanted. This approach might help the W.T.O. address the challenge of global warming, to bring everything from carbon trading to potential trade retaliation for emissions of greenhouse gases under its rules.
 The W.T.O. is perhaps the only institution of policy coordination capable of imposing discipline on its members. One of its challenges will be to devise rules to cope with the dynamics of globalization and global warming and to manage the rise of a set of new world powers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); AGRICULTURE (60%); FOOD PRICES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



38 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Image in Lean Times

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Shawn Hebb may have one of America's toughest jobs: convincing people that Whole Foods Market can be an economical place to shop.
 This week, leading five customers through a store here, he breezed past the triple cream goat cheese, $39.99 a pound, and the fresh tuna, $19.99 a pound, to focus on the merits of beans, chicken thighs and frozen fish. 
 Then he held up a $1.50 package of tofu. ''It looks gross but it's delicious,'' he said.
 Whole Foods Market is on a mission to revise its gold-plated image as consumers pull back on discretionary spending in a troubled economy. The company was once a Wall Street darling, but its sales growth was cooling even before the economy turned. Since peaking at the beginning of 2006, its stock has dropped more than 70 percent. 
 Now, in a sign of the times, the company is offering deeper discounts, adding lower-priced store brands and emphasizing value in its advertising. It is even inviting customers to show up for budget-focused store tours like those led by Mr. Hebb, a Whole Foods employee.
 But the budget claims are no easy sell at a store that long ago earned the nickname Whole Paycheck. Told of the company's budget pitch by a reporter, some Whole Foods customers said they had not noticed cheaper prices; a few laughed.
 Walter Robb, the company's co-president, acknowledged that Whole Foods was fighting strong consumer perceptions about the chain's prices, and he added that some of that was deserved. But he said the company had made a strong effort to challenge its competitors on price.
 ''I'm getting a little tired of that tag around our neck,'' he said, referring to the nickname. ''We are a lot more competitive than people give us credit for. We challenge anyone on like items.''
 Whole Foods' makeover comes amid a tumultuous time in the grocery industry, as customers struggling to pay for higher-priced fuel and food are trading down to lesser products and discount-oriented stores.
 A July survey by TNS Retail Forward, of Columbus, Ohio, found that 20 percent of shoppers have changed where they buy groceries and household essentials because of the economy. The biggest beneficiaries have been dollar stores and discount grocers like Aldi and Save-a-Lot, which offer a limited selection at extreme discounts.
 The losers have been convenience stores, drug stores, health and natural food stores, and conventional supermarkets.
 In the last month alone, grocery chains like Safeway, Supervalu and Delhaize Group, whose stores include Hannaford Brothers and Food Lion, have lowered their earnings outlooks because of higher energy costs and consumer penny-pinching. On Thursday, Winn-Dixie executives said increased budget offerings in the most recent quarter had bolstered sales but hurt the company's earnings.
 ''The economy caught a lot of them off guard,'' said David Orgel, the editor in chief of Supermarket News, a trade publication. He said that many grocers, aiming to compete with the likes of Whole Foods, have spent the last few years positioning their stores for a ''more upscale experience.'' They are suddenly scrambling to give consumers the budget items that they are demanding.
 Making matters worse for Whole Foods, consumer interest in organic food appears to be leveling off after several years of double-digit growth, according to the Hartman Group, a market research firm specializing in health and wellness. 
 Laurie Demeritt, president of the Hartman Group, said core consumers for organic goods, about 15 percent of the population, are becoming even more committed. But people less attached to such items are continuing to buy organic dairy products, produce and meat, and are buying fewer organic goods among packaged items, like cereal and crackers, she said.
 ''They don't see those center-store categories as being so important,'' she said. ''The economy has only exacerbated that situation.'' 
 The downturn in the economy comes during an inglorious stretch in Whole Foods' otherwise remarkable 28-year history. It was not long ago that Whole Foods was the toast of Wall Street and the envy of its competitors, with its gleaming stores stocked with organic produce, hormone-free meats and premium cheeses.
 But Whole Foods' stock has been sliding for two and a half years, in part because it was not able to maintain the double-digit same-store sales growth that was once routine and because its margins have been hurt by an aggressive strategy for adding new and bigger stores. 
 (The chain's same-store sales increase, 6.7 percent in the second quarter, and its gross profit margin, 35 percent, remain among the best in the industry.)
 In the last earnings report, in May, Whole Foods executives said it was not clear how the weak economy was affecting sales. On Tuesday, the company will report earnings for the most recent quarter, one in which many other grocers struggled.
 ''It's becoming clear that this worsening economic environment is having an impact on consumers at all economic levels,'' said Mitchell P. Corwin, an analyst at Morningstar. ''The Whole Paycheck image can really hurt you.''
 Mr. Corwin said it would take time for Whole Foods to change that image. ''When you walk into these big beautiful stores, it's hard for a consumer to think that it is a value-oriented type of retailer,'' he said.
 Andrew Wolf, an analyst for BB&T Capital Markets, said Whole Foods was ''a tale of two stores.'' He said the grocery items in the middle of the store are competitive if not cheaper than those at other stores offering the same products, mentioning items like Kashi cereal.
 But he said that Whole Foods was more expensive on the perimeter of the store, where it sells produce, meat, seafood and prepared foods, items that account for the majority of sales. 
 ''They'll say the price is higher, but the quality is higher,'' he said. ''It's kind of, 'You get what you pay for.' ''
 With the economy still deteriorating, a big question for Whole Foods is whether even its core customers will continue to pay prices like $6.99 a pound for all-natural, air-chilled chicken breast or $12 for a bag of cherries.
 ''We've seen evidence of people being more careful with their choices,'' said Mr. Robb, the co-president, who said that consumers were still buying items like wine and cheese, but perhaps buying cheaper varieties. 
 Despite the economic turmoil, he said consumers remained intensely interested in health and the quality of their food, where he believes Whole Foods has an edge.
 The company's budget strategy is on prominent display at its expansive store in Edgewater, N.J., which competes with a Trader Joe's down the street. A tomato-colored ''Weekly Buys'' flier is clearly visible by the front door, and sale signs are sprinkled throughout the aisles.
 Burger patties were on sale recently for a dollar each, while value packages of fresh cod and salmon were a dollar a pound less than smaller amounts purchased at the fish counter.
 Still, it was hard to find a shopper who considered Whole Foods a bargain, though many raved about the store's organic goods, produce, meat and fish.
 ''It's a great store, but I don't see it as a value,'' said Linda Martino, 41.
 But Susan Davis, 56, said she had noticed more sale signs. ''I came for something else one day and was shocked to find the meat on sale, so I bought it and put it in the freezer,'' she said. 
 At the conclusion of the ''Value Tour'' in Philadelphia one recent evening, one participant, Katera Moore, said she thought it had been worthwhile because she had learned about a few bargains, like frozen fish fillets and domestically produced cheese.
 Even so, she said she considered Whole Foods expensive for average people. Ms. Moore, 34, said, ''It was only cheap if you were a vegetarian willing to eat beans and tofu.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brooke Herman led a tour on Wednesday highlighting discount prices at the Whole Foods store in Edgewater, N.J.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Signs promoting sale prices were stationed last week throughout the aisles of the Whole Foods store in Edgewater, N.J.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) CHART: Comparison Shopping: Whole Foods has been trying to shed its image as a high-price specialty store and contends that it is priced comparably to other stores for the same items. Here is a sampling of retail prices.(Sources: the stores)(pg. C6) Chart details price of foods. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SEAFOOD (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); CHEESE (73%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (84%); ETS DELHAIZE FRERES & CIE LE LION SA (80%); SAVE-A-LOT FOOD STORES LTD (62%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (84%); DELB (BRU) (80%); DEG (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (80%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



39 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
Summer Getaway: Saugatuck, Mich.
 From Chicago and a pack of smaller Midwestern cities nearby, Saugatuck, Mich., provides the perfect escape in a summer of surging gasoline and airline prices. All it takes is a single tank of gas to get there and back. Americana decor greets visitors to the Saugatuck Drug Soda Fountain, left, where phosphates, malts, ice cream and hot dogs are served, just past the souvenirs and pharmacy. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: CREEPY-CRAWLIES IN NEW ORLEANS
 Photographs of the new Audubon Insectarium in New Orleans, a museum where visitors can examine, touch and even eat insects. The images, like the museum itself, are both unsettling and fun.
 nytimes.com/design
 SLIDESHOW: THE WEEK IN PICTURES
 Photographs from the week in New York and the region, including the Vans Warped Tour; celebrations and memorials at the National Black Theater; and reading to a 101-year-old woman.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 SLIDESHOW: EXPLORING THE WILDS OF QUIBERON, FRANCE
 Wild landscapes, small villages and spa centers for the rich and weary dot the rugged peninsula of Quiberon on France's Cote Sauvage, or Wild Coast. Above, boats at the port at Portivy at low tide.
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: GENERAL MOTORS POSTS $15.5 BILLION LOSS
 Bill Vlasic comments on General Motors' stunning second-quarter loss of $15.5 billion. The company is reeling from consumers' shift to small cars.
 nytimes.com/business
 Floyd Norris
 A Bad Time to Be Young
 As fewer Americans have jobs, the ones suffering the most are the young: Unemployment rates are soaring for the youngest workers, who are often the least skilled. And the younger a would-be worker is, the harder it is to find employment.
 nytimes.com/norris
 Opinion
 WHERE LOSING IS EVERYTHING
 The sports journalist Buzz Bissinger writes that he and his fellow Philadelphians bask in the neurosis of being the most pitiful sports city in America.
 nytimes.com/opinion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); WRITERS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



40 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Resisting The Rush To a World Of No Cash

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
The glorious $85 porterhouse for two at Peter Luger. A Barney Greengrass bagel with belly lox on a Sunday morning. Adopting a frisky mixed-breed puppy from an animal shelter in Onondaga County, N.Y. Getting X-rays and an orthopedic consult at a deep discount in New Brunswick, N.J.
 All can be had -- so long as you have cash.
 After a week in which many of the MetroCard machines in the subways refused to accept credit or debit cards for parts of two days, it seemed appropriate to tour some of New York City's cash-only establishments. It was an adventure one part nostalgia, one part sociological experiment. In an era of online banking and E-ZPass and workplace cafeterias where an employee-identification card is all you need to buy lunch, who still uses green these days, and why? 
 Though there are plenty of exceptions -- neighborhood bodegas, street vendors selling counterfeit Fendi bags, bail bondsmen -- cash-only holdouts in New York are rare and tend to be an iconoclastic, or at least deliberate, bunch. Much like dogs who lick themselves in silly places or Park Avenue co-op boards that require a 100 percent down payment, there are some commercial establishments that have a cash-only policy just because they can.
 Take Peter Luger, the famous steakhouse in Williamsburg, where dinner for two can easily top $300, but credit cards are useless. ''I've heard people complain, but they don't care: they're full most every night,'' Tim Zagat, owner of Zagat restaurant guides, said of Luger. ''Most restaurants don't want to be in a position of embarrassing their diners by telling them, 'Sorry, you've got to pony up cash,' if they weren't expecting it. But the owners of Peter Luger are just peculiar in the way they run the business.''
 Marilyn Spiera, a member of the family that owns the restaurant, said she simply preferred not to pay the 2 to 3 percent fees that credit card companies charge vendors to use them. ''The steak costs us 73 percent of what we sell it for, and when you factor in the rest of our costs -- cooking, waiters, cleaning up -- it's one of the things we make the smallest profit on,'' she said. ''Thank God, we have the bar and the salads.''
 (A well-kept secret: Peter Luger will accept debit cards, but, Ms. Spiera said, ''that's only a case of when all else fails, a last resort.'')
 Some gas stations around the city accept credit cards but offer a discount for cash, since it saves them the credit card fee. 
 For Dr. Ronald Selby, a New Brunswick orthopedist, the matter has less to do with the form of payment than other forms, namely insurance. He recently began offering 40 percent to 50 percent discounts for customers who use SimpleCare, a cash-only system that has taken root on the West Coast but has few subscribers in the New York area. With it, he said, ''I don't have to deal with the insurance companies at all.''
 Oriente Mania, a founder of Sette Mezzo, an Italian restaurant on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, said that when he and two partners went into business in New York 22 years ago, they could not get approved for accepting credit cards, so they began allowing regulars to open house accounts, and the place took on the atmosphere of a private club.
 ''I would say we are 90 percent a house-account business, most of the people living one-hundred twenty-one,'' Mr. Mania estimated, circling his finger in the air during lunchtime the other day. ''You know, the ZIP code, 10021? The Newhouses come every Sunday from the day we opened -- Table 11, 8 people. Tom Tisch, John Tisch. Sol Steinberg, the Soros family.''
 And if uninitiated patrons should happen to find themselves caught out without cash, Mr. Mania said, ''They write their address and we mail them the bill.''
 Merob Koiava, a manager at Piadina in Greenwich Village, said it was not uncommon for one person at a table to stand up when the bill arrives and head into the night in search of an automated teller machine. ''But if somebody wants to come back a day or two later with the money, we let them,'' he added. ''We trust them. It makes it feel like a neighborhood restaurant.''
 Sandy Jephson, who was eating there with her boyfriend the other night, said she thought it would do her good to use cash more often. ''My problem is I swipe my card for every little thing I buy that's $8,'' she said. ''I end up with a huge long bill.'' 
 A recent study by the Federal Reserve System found that people are using plastic more frequently for ever smaller transactions: the number of debit card payments rose by 77 percent, to 9.4 billion from 5.3 billion, even as the average payment dropped by nearly 12 percent.
 The right to run a cash-only business is, in fact, reflected in local law. ''The only industry in New York that is required to offer both cash and credit options is the towing industry,'' said Beth Miller, a spokeswoman at the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs. ''Not the kind of towing where you call to get your own car towed. The kind where your car gets towed because it's parked where it's not supposed to be.''
 The law, enacted in 1993, was apparently the brainchild of Saul Weprin, a Queens Democrat and Assembly speaker who died in 1994. ''He or somebody in his family had their car towed in the middle of the night and didn't have cash on them and couldn't get their car out,'' Ms. Miller said, recalling local lore.
 There are financial self-help gurus on talk radio and on the Internet who preach the virtue of a ''cash-only diet,'' including James Neely, who, with a partner, writes moneyanswerguy.com. ''The philosophy is very simple,'' said Mr. Neely, a freelance writer who lives in Indiana. ''You become a lot more aware of what you're spending. You are aware that you immediately no longer have the money you had.''
 But Allen H. Kupetz, the author of ''The Future of Less,'' a book about the global economy's movement toward a cashless, wireless and paperless existence, said most people use paper money for less than 10 percent of their purchases. And he predicted a cardless society soon enough. 
 ''In Japan, you can use your cellphone to buy a Coke from a vending machine,'' he said. ''Some day, machines will stop accepting cash and credit cards, and everything will be on the phone. Cash will become like the 8-track tape.'' 
 Barney Greengrass, the Upper West Side temple of Jewish appetizing, accepts credit cards only on weekdays.
 ''On weekends, we get so busy, I don't want to spend the time running the machine,'' said a manager, Richie Kleiman. The restaurant also has its share of house accounts, Mr. Kleiman explained, and a few minutes later he took a phone order, writing at the top ''Woody Allen.''
 ''Did he say chocolate cake or babka?'' Mr. Kleiman said. The woman on the other end was ordering food for Mr. Allen's coming airplane trip. 
 ''He probably meant babka,'' Mr. Kleiman said. ''I know he likes babka. I'll throw in a babka.''
 The list got longer. Cream cheese, bagels, smoked fish.
 ''You want sandwiches, too? We can do that,'' Mr. Kleiman said. Another pause, and he smiled.
 ''No sweetie, we don't have ham here,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite the sign in the window, a manager at Piadina in Greenwich Village said it was not unusual to see a diner dash out to an A.T.M. when the bill arrives.
 Cash on the reservation book: The way they like it at Piadina.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Just Cash, Please: Source: Zagat THE NEW YORK TIMES Cash-only eateries rated highly in Zagat, grouped by location and average cost per meal.(Source: Zagat) Chart details cash-only eateries in each borough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); DEBIT CARDS (70%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (67%); ORTHOPEDICS (57%); INTERNET BANKING (54%); COUNTERFEITING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



41 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Hits 5.7% As Jobs Fall for 7th Month

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The unemployment rate spiked again in July, to 5.7 percent, its highest level in more than four years and a strong signal that come Election Day millions of Americans will still be hunting for work.
 ''We are not seeing a catastrophic collapse in the job market, like you often see in recessions,'' said James Glassman, senior domestic economist for JPMorgan Chase. ''What we are seeing instead is a steady hemorrhaging of jobs, and that is going to continue until housing stabilizes and stops dragging down the rest of the economy.''
 The nation's employers cut their payrolls for the seventh consecutive month, this time by 51,000 jobs, the government reported Friday. For millions still at work, hours were reduced, a hidden form of unemployment, and the average raise was less than enough to keep up with inflation. 
 The steady erosion in payrolls -- 463,000 jobs have disappeared since January -- cut across nearly every sector in July. Teenagers, 16 to 19, trying to land work, were particularly hard hit. Their unemployment rate, 20.3 percent, up 2.2 percentage points in just a month, was the highest since 1992, contributing significantly to the jump in the overall unemployment rate. That rate jumped from 5.5 percent in June and 5 percent in April. 
 ''Parents don't push their kids to go to work in good times,'' Mr. Glassman said, ''but they probably are doing so now with gasoline and food prices squeezing family budgets.'' 
 The weak jobs report and the Commerce Department's finding on Thursday that the economy was growing sluggishly, at best, led Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, to declare in a stump speech in Florida that ''anxieties are getting worse, not better,'' for many families. 
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican candidate, said the latest jobs report was ''a reminder of the economic challenges we face.'' 
 The Bush administration offered a more upbeat assessment. ''We are concerned about continued job losses,'' Elaine L. Chao, the labor secretary, said in a statement, but ''the long-term fundamentals of the economy remain solid.'' 
 The Federal Reserve's policy makers, who have cut the key short-term interest rate they control to a low 2 percent, in an effort to stimulate the economy, are almost certain to leave the rate at that level when they meet in Washington on Tuesday.
 Neither the jobs report nor the persistently weak economic growth suggests that the surge in fuel and food prices will spread soon to a multitude of other items -- a prospect that would push the Fed to raise rates to suppress inflation.
 ''If you are the Federal Reserve, this jobs report might even be enough to convince you to cut rates again,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. 
 The weak economy coincides with a sharp increase in labor productivity in the second quarter, which helps to explain why employers have been shedding workers. The latter are increasingly producing more in a day's work than their employers can sell. That is partly because their employers prod them to do so, or introduce labor-saving devices. 
 In either case, employers are laying off excess staff or reducing their hours or holding back on weekly raises, which rose at an annual rate of only 2.8 percent in July for the typical white-collar or blue-collar worker. That is well below the inflation rate of more than 4 percent. 
 The layoffs and staff cutbacks were evident throughout the private sector, with only health care, oil production and computer design showing more employment, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. Manufacturing and construction lost the most workers, a total of 57,000. Nearly 30,000 temporary workers across many industries also disappeared. 
 ''When the economy barely grows but labor productivity does, you are inevitably putting people out of work,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs. 
 In that environment, the percentage of 16-to-19-year-olds holding jobs fell to 32.5 percent in July from 33.1, the lowest level since the Bureau of Labor Statistics started collecting this data, in 1948.
 Young people often seek work in retailing, construction and food service, and all of these industries have either been shedding workers or not adding them at their usual pace, said Tom Nardone, an assistant commissioner at the bureau. 
 Teenagers were not the only ones hit. The unemployment rate for men in their prime working years, 25 to 54, jumped three-tenths of a point, to 4.9 percent.
 James McCambridge, a 54-year-old widower living in Park Ridge, Ill., with his three children, is among the victims. In May, he lost his $120,000-a-year job as a salesman for the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bureau and has been painting houses since then while responding to 100 job postings on the Internet -- so far without success.
 ''Painting helps me to blow off some energy, and some anger,'' he said. Next week, he plans to apply for a charter school teaching job on the West Side of Chicago. He would accept it, he said, even though the $53,000 salary is less than half his old pay. ''It will mean major lifestyle changes for my family,'' he said. 
 Dino Helke, 38, of Dayton, Ohio, on the other hand, has joined the swelling ranks of those who would like to work but are discouraged from doing so or cannot get full-time employment.
 Add these people to the ranks of the officially unemployed, like Mr. McCambridge, and the 5.7 percent unemployment rate swells to 10.3 percent, up from 9.9 percent in June, the bureau reported.
 Mr. Helke made $80,000 a year, including overtime, as a production worker at a General Motors plant near his home in Dayton until the plant was shut recently and he was laid off. Since then, he said, he has been unable to find work that pays more than $8 an hour, and he prefers not to work for that wage.
 ''Who can do anything with so little money?'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An employment training facility, JobTrain, in Menlo Park, Calif., offering career counseling.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C7) CHART: THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE: At 5.7 percent in July, the nation's unemployment rate is approaching the highest level in more than four years.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details line graph for recessions.
Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for spending.
 The Labor Picture in July: Unemployment rate. Chart details line and bar graphs for labor statistics.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EROSION (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); ELAINE CHAO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



42 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Time, Finally, for Real Fuel Economy

 BODY:
The political landscape is littered with squandered opportunities to avert the $4-a-gallon gasoline mess we find ourselves in now. Americans would be using far less gas -- and consumers and the automobile industry would be much better off -- if Congress had summoned the wisdom and political courage 20, 10, even five years ago to impose tough fuel economy standards on the nation's transportation fleet. 
 Another such opportunity is fast approaching, and it would be foolish to miss it. On Monday, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration -- the federal agency that sets fuel standards -- will hold hearings on a timetable that it has proposed for meeting the new fuel economy standards established in the 2007 energy act. 
 The law requires new cars and trucks to meet a fleetwide average of at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020, a 40 percent increase over today's average of 25 m.p.g. That could save about one billion barrels of oil a day by 2020. As an interim step, the agency is calling for a fleetwide average of 31.6 m.p.g. by 2015.
 The agency should do better. The targets Congress set were floors, not ceilings, and a raft of studies have concluded that significantly higher standards, up to 40 m.p.g., are both cost-effective and technologically achievable within Congress's time frame.
 The soaring price of gasoline is itself an argument for more aggressive standards. The higher the fuel price, the more consumers would be willing to pay up front for fuel-saving technology, and the more industry should be required to invest in that technology.
 History leaves no doubt that failing to act aggressively would be a big mistake. The first fuel economy standards, passed in 1975, worked wonders, doubling automobile efficiency and allowing the country to rein in its oil consumption even as the economy grew. But over time, as the standards stayed the same, and cars grew bigger, these gains disappeared. The result was a jump in consumption and increasing dependence on imports from alarmingly unstable parts of the world. 
 In 1990, Richard Bryan, a liberal Democrat from Nevada, and Slade Gorton, a conservative Republican from Washington, offered a program to lift fuel standards to 40 m.p.g. by the end of the decade, which did not seem like an improbable goal. The proposal was promptly steamrollered by a bipartisan pro-industry coalition. Had it succeeded, Americans would now be consuming three million fewer barrels a day.
 Even modest reforms have been swatted down. Early in his administration, President Bill Clinton proposed stronger standards for light trucks, including S.U.V.'s and minivans. Republicans, then led by Newt Gingrich, responded with a rider that banned such improvements and effectively killed any serious discussion of the issue for years.
 Market forces, in the form of higher prices, are now forcing American automakers to make more fuel-efficient cars. This does not relieve the administration of its obligation to follow through with aggressive standards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



43 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Lufthansa and Its Union Settle a Five-Day Strike

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Lufthansa and its main union on Friday ended a five-day strike that disrupted air traffic in Germany and highlighted the pressure for higher wages in Europe amid lofty energy and food prices. 
 Lufthansa, the largest European airline after Air France-KLM, agreed to an immediate 5.1 percent pay increase for its 34,000 ground staff, retroactive to July 1, and an additional increase of 2.3 percent on July 1, 2009. Employees will also get a one-time payment, part of which will be linked with performance, of up to 2.4 percent of their annual salary. 
 The deal amounts to a pay increase at an annual rate of 4.2 percent over two years. 
 ''It is certainly not painless for either side,'' Stefan Lauer, Lufthansa's chief negotiator, said. 
 The union called the strike after months of negotiations failed to produce an agreement. It began Monday and caused a few flight cancellations, but by Thursday had gathered enough steam to disrupt routes between Germany and the United States, Canada, India and Dubai. 
 Like other airlines around the world, Lufthansa is struggling with rising fuel prices and discontent among employees who are feeling the pain of higher energy and food prices. 
 Through a mix of strategies, including hedging its fuel costs with financial derivatives and passing along the higher fuel prices to its passengers, Lufthansa has protected its bottom line even as other carriers have sought bankruptcy protection or faced dwindling margins. The company announced a 15 percent increase in operating profit this week. 
 But Wolfgang Mayrhuber, Lufthansa's chief executive, scoffed at the almost 10 percent wage increase that the union had demanded, warning that such a step would endanger the company's stability. 
 As inflation has risen across Europe, fears have increased that the Continent might become trapped in the kind of wage-price spiral that gripped much of the Western world in the 1970s. Then, workers repeatedly demanded higher wages to compensate for rising prices, creating a circular pattern of inflation that was broken only by a deep recession in the early 1980s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); STRIKES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (96%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (96%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG MAYRHUBER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%) GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); INDIA (69%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



44 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Could Bear Talk Be a Contrary Signal?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Americans have turned more negative on prospects for the stock market than at any time in the last 20 years. That may be good news for investors.
 The Conference Board, in its consumer confidence report released this week, found that 55 percent of the consumers it questioned in July expected stock prices to decline over the next 12 months, while just 18 percent expected them to rise. The remaining 27 percent expected the market to remain level. 
 Not all consumers are investors, of course, and there is no breakdown on how those who do own stocks feel about the market. But it was the first time since the Conference Board began asking that question in the summer of 1987 that more than half of the respondents were bearish. Before this year, the proportion of bulls had never fallen below 20 percent.
 In the past, there have been only six market cycles when the proportion of bears reached 36 percent. Five of them were excellent times to buy stocks, and the other one was followed by a decent return.
 The first such move peaked in November 1987, just after the October crash, when 39 percent of respondents forecast declining prices. Over the next 12 months, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 19 percent.
 The next period came in 1990, with the American economy in recession and international worries centered on the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. As shown in the accompanying chart, that was followed by a 29 percent rise in the stock index. There was a brief surge of bearishness in December 1991, but stock prices recovered as the month ended and rose moderately over the following year.
 Other times of rampant bearishness were in 1994, after an abrupt decline in share prices that followed a Federal Reserve move to raise interest rates, and in 1998, amid the Asian financial crisis.
 The most recent high in bearishness, before this year, came in March 2003. Bearishness had been high at various points in 2001 and 2002, as the stock market declined, but the 47 percent bearish figure then was the highest for the cycle. It was followed by a 33 percent rise in the stock index, the best of any of the moves.
 The reverse indicator -- of selling shares when bullishness is high -- has often, but not always, worked well. The highest level of market enthusiasm ever recorded by the Conference Board, with bulls making up 48 percent of the respondents and bears just 15 percent, came in January 2000. Someone selling stocks then would have caught the peak in the Dow Jones industrial average, and gotten out just a couple of months before the technology stock bubble began to deflate.
 Similarly, bullishness hit 46 percent in July 1987, weeks before that year's market peaked and three months before it crashed. But other high points in bullishness, in early 1988 and again in early 1998, were not bad times to buy stocks.
 Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Forecasting Stock Prices: For the first time, more than half of consumers polled by the Conference Board expect stock prices fo fall over the next 12 months. There have been six previous cycles when at least 36 percent of respondents were bearish.(Source: Conference Board) Chart details line and bar graph for date of peak and percentages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



45 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2097 words

HEADLINE: Despite Flaws, Rights in China Have Expanded

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH; Li Zhen contributed research from Beijing, and Fan Wenxin and Zhong Zijuan from Shanghai.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
For the past two decades, China's people became richer but not much freer, and the Communist Party has staked its future on their willingness to live with that tradeoff. 
 That, at least, is the conventional wisdom. But as the Olympic Games approach, training a spotlight on China's rights record, that view obscures a more complex reality: political change, however gradual and inconsistent, has made China a significantly more open place for average people than it was a generation ago. 
 Much remains unfree here. The rights of public expression and assembly are sharply limited; minorities, especially in Tibet and Xinjiang Province, are repressed; and the party exercises a nearly complete monopoly on political decision making. 
 But Chinese people also increasingly live where they want to live. They travel abroad in ever larger numbers. Property rights have found broader support in the courts. Within well-defined limits, people also enjoy the fruits of the technological revolution, from cellphones to the Internet, and can communicate or find information with an ease that has few parallels in authoritarian countries of the past. 
 ''Some people will tell you, look at the walls, and say they are still pretty high, while others will tell you that there is a lot of space between the walls,'' said Nicholas Bequelin, a China specialist at Human Rights Watch. ''Both things are true.''
 Chinese who try to challenge the one-party state directly say authorities are no more tolerant of dissent than they were in the 1980s, and in some cases they are tougher on citizen-led campaigns to enforce legal rights or stop environmental abuses. 
 On the other hand, the definition of what constitutes a political challenge has changed. Individuals are far less likely to run afoul of a system that no longer demands conformity in political views or personal lifestyles.
 The shift toward a more diverse society helps explain some anomalies in perceptions of life inside China. Amnesty International, the human rights group, reported this week that the rights situation had deteriorated significantly in the months before the Olympics despite China's pledges to improve its record as a condition for hosting the games. 
 But a survey conducted by the Pew Global Attitudes Project this spring and issued last month found that an astounding 86 percent of Chinese said they were content with their country's direction, double the percentage who said the same thing in 2002. Only 23 percent of Americans polled in the survey said they were satisfied with their country's direction.
 The speeches of China's leaders, with their gray imagery and paternalistic phrasings, have changed relatively little, emphasizing unity, harmony and economic growth under party rule. The reality on the ground, though, has been transformed, partly because a more dynamic economy necessitates a more dynamic society, partly because money gives people options they did not have when they were poor.
 Arguably the most dramatic change in the freedoms enjoyed by most Chinese has been the gradual erosion of a population registration system that tied people to their places of birth, preventing internal migration or, at its height, even tourism. 
 China has not formally abandoned the system, known as hukou, and it can still prove a nuisance. But as hundreds of millions of people have moved from the inland provinces to wealthier coastal cities in search of economic opportunity, authorities in one place after another have found themselves making concessions to this new reality. 
 Song Daqing, who lives in a single-room home here with his wife and three children, counts himself as a beneficiary of these changes. Born into poverty in Sichuan Province, he worked as a cattle herder, bricklayer and coal miner, earning as little as 60 cents a day before coming to Shanghai in 1998. His early years in this city were marked by frequent mass roundups of migrants by the police, and he was twice held in crowded detention centers before being expelled from the city. 
 ''Now we all have residence permits,'' said Mr. Song, who supports his family by selling vegetables. ''The police don't check our paperwork anymore, and even if they found you without a permit, they won't arrest you, but rather would suggest you get one as soon as possible.''
 Reality Trumps Ideology
 The relative flexibility the government has shown in allowing this to happen is more a matter of pragmatism than any overt ideological shift, a grudging concession to economic reality.
 ''China's economic development relies on the flow of migrants into cities,'' said Wei Wei, the founder of Little Bird, an organization that runs a special phone line to help migrant workers protect their rights. ''The country's growth depends on it.''
 Little Bird itself is an example of incremental openness. It is a nongovernmental organization, one of thousands addressing social, economic and environmental issues that the party once insisted it could handle by itself. The leeway private groups have to influence public policy is still limited. Those that cross unwritten lines into political opposition often are shut down. 
 But China's bureaucracy is more contentious than it was under Mao. Policy advocates within the government -- including officials representing weak bureaucracies, like those charged with fighting pollution, improving education and broadening women's rights -- often seek popular support to increase their clout.
 A recent example involved a revision of a law covering rights for the handicapped, which the government undertook after several organizations banded together in 2004 to advocate change on the issue. The activists also contacted Chinese legislators and provided a report to the official Chinese Disabled Person's Federation. 
 The government never publicly acknowledged the citizens' action, but a revised law incorporating some of their recommendations was enacted earlier this year. ''The pressure came from both inside and outside,'' said Wu Runling, director of the Beijing Huitianyu Information Consulting Center, one of the groups involved. ''You can't tell me that our appeal and calls for revision of the law had no meaning at all.'' 
 Although a powerful system of censorship remains a fact of life, and journalists are frequently jailed and detained, feisty publications with mass audiences in print and on the Internet report forthrightly about ills in society. 
 Greater access to information has emboldened people to assert some rights. Homeowners in cities like Shanghai and Chongqing have resisted government development schemes with some success, and the proliferation of petitioners with all kinds of grievances presents the authorities with an informal check on their power.
 ''After 30 years, everybody knows about democracy and freedom,'' said Wang Xiaodong, a researcher at the China Youth Research Center, a wing of the Communist Youth League. ''They know that as taxpayers, we support the government, not the opposite.''
 Before the Olympics, Beijing demolished a favorite pilgrimage spot for petitioners who flow to the capital from all over the country to seek redress from perceived injustice. According to a recent report in a Hong Kong magazine, Phoenix Weekly, the government has also hired thugs to intimidate or kidnap petitioners to prevent them from making their cases. Critics of such abuses say that in an indirect way, the state is acknowledging the power of such protest.
 ''Human rights has become more than just a theory for the public,'' said Jiang Qisheng, a student leader during the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and former political prisoner. ''In the past they petitioned and complained about injustice, but that wasn't about defending their rights. They let the higher authorities to decide their rights.
 ''What they are asking for now is a change in the system, and this reflects a widespread change in attitude,'' he said. 
 Even in the best of times, China's human rights improvements have been so gradual as to be almost impossible to discern in any month-to-month sense. And in the tense environment before the Olympics, which China fears could invite uncontrollable protests or blemish its international image, the climate has become noticeably more restrictive.
 Lawyers have been sternly warned not to represent clients involved in delicate political cases. Tibetans and Uighur Muslims have been subjected to arrests and ''re-education'' campaigns. 
 Hu Jia, a Beijing-based political activist who campaigned for years on behalf of AIDS patients and for greater political openness, was arrested late last year and sentenced to three and a half years in prison for ''inciting subversion of state power.'' Many other dissidents have been warned to stay away from Beijing, or have seen state surveillance and harassment extended to their family members.
 The government relies on unwritten laws: political confrontation with the ruling party remains a no-go area, and state stability trumps nascent notions of human rights. 
 Blogs Subvert Propaganda
 Yet even as the police tightened security before the Games, the power of new information technologies to chip away at the official line was still on display. In a poor county in Guizhou Province in the south, a teenage girl died under mysterious circumstances, and rumors of police malfeasance and a cover-up spread widely on the Internet, prompting public protests to demand a new investigation. 
 Local authorities initially tried to suppress news of the protests, which turned violent, and impose an official account of events there. But people wielding video cameras uploaded material to YouTube, and some Chinese journalists disputed official accounts that the riots had been put down peacefully.
 One of them was Wu Hanpin, a radio reporter who took pictures of the riot. They showed that the police had fired rubber bullets and teenagers in detention whose bruised foreheads suggested beatings. 
 ''I saw a gap between the official story and the reality, which was mind-blowing, like the presence of the armed police,'' Mr. Wu said. ''So I put some of these things on the Internet, on my personal blog.'' Four days later, after registering hundreds of thousands of visitors, his blog was closed by censors. 
 ''The media has made a huge step forward from the '80s,'' said Sun Jinping, a veteran senior editor at a Beijing newspaper. The riot in Guizhou Province, he said, ''would have been impossible for the public to know about in the past.'' 
 A View of the Outside
 For others, the impact of information about other countries has been just as great. He Weifang, a professor of law at Peking University, said that before the economic reform era began in 1979, the country was much like North Korea, where people were indoctrinated to believe that Chinese were the better off than people anywhere else. 
 ''Today, even the farmers in remote areas have satellite TVs,'' Mr. He said. ''So whenever they see an election, such as the one held in Pakistan recently, they may wonder why, even though we have approximately the same economic conditions, they can elect their top leaders, and we can't even vote for the leader of a small county. I think a consciousness of political rights has increased more than anything.'' 
 Even China's party-run legal system is a fulcrum for experimentation, though in an ambiguous way that highlights the uncertainties in the country's transition.
 Judges do not have the power to rule independently in China. Yet the country now has 165,000 registered lawyers, a five-fold increase since 1990, and average people have hired them to press for enforcement of rights inscribed in the Chinese Constitution. The courts today sometimes defend property rights and business contracts even when powerful state interests are on the other side.
 In criminal law, progress is more grudging. Yan Ruyu, a former Beijing police officer who quit the force and became a lawyer after the violent crackdown on protesters at Tiananmen Square, said such cases remained unpopular with most lawyers because the likelihood of prevailing over the state remains so slim. 
 ''There has been progress, but it's so slow that sometimes one becomes pessimistic,'' he said. ''It's empty talk to speak of having an independent judiciary if the party leads everything.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Yan says, party control turns every criminal case into a human rights case. That gives every criminal defense lawyer the chance -- and for some of them, the incentive -- to inch the system forward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mentally disabled people dance at Beijing Huiling Service for the Handicapped, which pressed the government for changes in rights for the disabled.
 New flexibility in rules that dictate where people live has allowed Song Daqing to escape poverty in Sichuan to sell vegetables in Shanghai.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIANA LINDQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); OLYMPICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (91%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



46 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Jumpstart the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''As Rebates Run Their Course'' (editorial, July 27): 
 As you point out, a second, stronger economic stimulus package is needed to put money in the hands of unemployed workers and other vulnerable, underconsuming populations.
 Directing additional financial aid to distressed state governments would also help to maintain employment levels and essential public services.
 Beyond these short-term measures, the federal government should also be leading efforts to boost public investment in the nation's crumbling infrastructure and deeply deficient services. Over the last several years, we've seen evidence of infrastructure and service failure all around us: eroding levees, collapsing bridges, overcrowded classrooms, schools badly in need of repair, and outdated and inadequate mass transit. 
 In the service sector, affordable child care is scarce, and there are chronic shortages of nursing assistants and home health and home care aides primarily because of low pay. Attacking these double deficits in jobs and public infrastructure and services is a win-win strategy that would help repair our faltering economy and at the same time provide employment to vulnerable groups. 
 Such a program might begin by employing residents of Dutchess County to repair the deteriorating Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library. 
 Gertrude Schaffner Goldberg Charles Bell New Canaan, Conn., July 28, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, the chairwoman and the vice chairman of the National Jobs for All Coalition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); CHILD CARE (53%); LIBRARIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



47 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Jumpstart the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''As Rebates Run Their Course'' (editorial, July 27): 
As you point out, a second, stronger economic stimulus package is needed to put money in the hands of unemployed workers and other vulnerable, underconsuming populations.
 Directing additional financial aid to distressed state governments would also help to maintain employment levels and essential public services.
 Beyond these short-term measures, the federal government should also be leading efforts to boost public investment in the nation's crumbling infrastructure and deeply deficient services. Over the last several years, we've seen evidence of infrastructure and service failure all around us: eroding levees, collapsing bridges, overcrowded classrooms, schools badly in need of repair, and outdated and inadequate mass transit. 
 In the service sector, affordable child care is scarce, and there are chronic shortages of nursing assistants and home health and home care aides primarily because of low pay. Attacking these double deficits in jobs and public infrastructure and services is a win-win strategy that would help repair our faltering economy and at the same time provide employment to vulnerable groups. 
 Such a program might begin by employing residents of Dutchess County to repair the deteriorating Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library. 
 Gertrude Schaffner Goldberg Charles Bell New Canaan, Conn., July 28, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, the chairwoman and the vice chairman of the National Jobs for All Coalition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); CHILD CARE (53%); LIBRARIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009



48 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Take Presidential Campaigns To Florida

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Michael Powell contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Fla.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama campaigned in the crucial swing state of Florida on Friday, with Mr. McCain trying to court black leaders while criticizing Mr. Obama's educational policies. 
 Suggesting that Mr. Obama was captive to labor unions, Mr. McCain told the National Urban League that if Mr. Obama ''continues to defer to the teachers unions, instead of committing to real reform, then he should start looking for new slogans.''
 Mr. Obama has been sharply critical of the No Child Left Behind law, President Bush's signature education policy, which Mr. McCain generally supports. The law increased educational accountability standards for states, and teachers unions have strongly opposed efforts to renew it. 
 Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, used much of his speech to highlight his support for charter schools and voucher programs that would allow more parents to send their children to private and parochial schools. Teachers unions have generally opposed these initiatives.
 He faced skeptical questions from the largely black audience about his support for a ballot initiative banning affirmative action, for his stance on gun ownership and for his opposition to a federal holiday honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1983 (''Because I was wrong,'' he replied). Although Mr. McCain was greeted with a standing ovation, and left to one, his remarks about Mr. Obama, his likely Democratic opponent, were often met with silence. 
 Asked about affirmative action, he said that ''affirmative action is in the eye of the beholder'' and praised the United States military as the nation's greatest equal opportunity employer. 
 Mr. Obama campaigned in St. Petersburg, where at a high school gymnasium he unveiled what he called his emergency plan to address the nation's economic woes. His proposals include a $500 energy rebate for individual workers and $1,000 for families -- his response to Mr. McCain's endorsement of more offshore drilling for oil -- and a surtax on oil profits to pay for $50 billion in new spending, half of which would go to state governments that are also hurting and the rest to the depleted Highway Trust Fund.
 ''This rebate will be enough to offset the increased cost of gas for a working family over the next four months,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd. ''Or, if you live in a state where it gets very cold in the winter, it will be enough to cover the entire increase in your heating bills. Or you could use the rebate for any of your other bills, or even to pay down debt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain taking questions on Friday at the National Urban League convention.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); FAMILY (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (54%); BALLOTS (52%); FIREARMS (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



49 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Opportunity Knocks as Paterson Tackles Budget

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
As he prepared to deliver a live address from the State Capitol on Tuesday night about New York's deteriorating economy, Gov. David A. Paterson planned to sit behind the grand paneled desk used by previous governors, perhaps most notably Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 Then he scrapped the idea -- the desk was in bad light and too bulky to move -- but the message would have been unmistakable: Mr. Paterson was determined to project the image of a commanding and sure-footed leader at a time of deepening uncertainty.
 The state's economic woes are a test not only for New York, but for an unproven governor as well. And over the past week, Mr. Paterson's actions and words have suggested that he wants to make the most of the opportunity.
 In the rare live television address from Albany, in a speech to the National Press Club in Washington and in meetings with senators, the chairman of the Federal Reserve and the secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Paterson repeatedly described New York this week as facing its worst economic downturn in decades. He called for immediate action, from freezing state hiring to cutting prized programs, possibly including education and health care. 
 He warned that the situation could become as bad as in the Great Depression, and invoked the name Herbert Hoover in telling the State Legislature and Washington that inaction could lead to disaster. 
 ''An example of how not to do things would be the Great Depression,'' Mr. Paterson said in an interview this week. ''The president sat there, twisting in the wind for three years. You didn't hear anything from Herbert Hoover during that time.''
 Thrust into the limelight by the fall of his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, Mr. Paterson is facing what his advisers, colleagues and political rivals view as his defining moment. Clearly stung by criticism that his governorship is accidental and that his administration lacks a fully formed agenda, his response since his budget director presented him with sharply lower tax collection numbers on July 15 has been to engage in a full-court press.
 ''Even if he'd been on the job for 10 years, it'd be a defining crisis. But he's new, and therefore a lot of people are still forming their opinions of him,'' said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat who represents the West Side and was a state assemblyman for 16 years. ''People will judge him on how he responds.'' 
 Over the course of two weeks, Mr. Paterson has consulted with high-profile economists like Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury secretary in Bill Clinton's administration. He decided that a televised address to the state rather than an op-ed article or a news conference would best convey the gravity of his message. And he arranged meetings with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman; Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary; and members of Congress during a highly visible trip to Washington after his televised speech.
 As he was riding in a Chevrolet Suburban on his way to brief New York's Congressional delegation on Wednesday night, Mr. Paterson made clear that he was thinking about his, as well as the state's, future. 
 ''They're going to blame me if I sit here and act like it's not happening,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''That was why I wanted to get right out in front of it.''
 But by ringing the alarm on the state's fiscal condition so loudly, the governor is putting himself at some political risk. Many legislators and some economists do not believe that New York's economy is in recession, suggesting that a modest recovery on Wall Street could rectify many of the state's revenue problems. Many economists also say that despite the slowdown, the state's budget problems are not as severe as they were in previous recessions, including the one after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Given such pronouncements, it is far from clear that the Legislature will be open to reducing spending, or that Congress will be inclined to increase aid, as much as Mr. Paterson wants. 
 ''It is a big risk,'' said Gerald Benjamin, a former dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University of New York at New Paltz. ''But I think he's made the calculation that first, New York needs this kind of leadership, and second, that this risk is worth taking because he wants to keep his job.''
 The criticism that the governor may be crying wolf is one Mr. Paterson said he had anticipated. ''I'm already hearing that people are saying that I'm overestimating the problem,'' he said. ''And I understand that's because it's very difficult to cut spending. It's very difficult to take the responsibility of reducing the work force, or cutting health care or cutting education if necessary. And yet, as I said, the faster we address it, the stronger we'll emerge from it. It's really very simple.''
 Mr. Paterson's approach to dealing with the impact of a weakening economy has been nothing if not urgent. When he decided to call back the Legislature for a special session, legislative leaders agreed to Aug. 19 -- far earlier than lawmakers had expected. He did not want to wait until after November, when the entire Legislature will be up for election, even though it would be easier politically to persuade legislators to accept spending reductions then. He did not even want to wait until after Labor Day.
 ''Suppose I'm totally wrong. The budget deficit is $5 billion. It's not $6.4 billion,'' he said. ''So what are we doing about the $5 billion? Why aren't we opening up the budget and cutting?''
 His sense of urgency has irritated some in the Legislature, who bristled at his comment on Tuesday night that he was going to ''end the legislators' vacations'' and call them back to Albany. Mr. Paterson later said he should have chosen his words more carefully.
 Mr. Paterson, who was a state senator for more than two decades, said he knew that the only approach that would work with the Senate and the Assembly was a delicate but firm one. ''I used to be one of them, so I think I know how they feel,'' he said. ''And I think that they do not want to be treated as if they have caused this problem.'' 
 Then, referring to the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, who is a Republican, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, who is a Democrat, he added: ''This is a moment. And I think Senator Skelos and Assemblyman Silver know it.''
 But even as he criticized state spending run amok and made confident predictions that the Legislature would ultimately see things his way, Mr. Paterson acknowledged the stress he was under.
 ''I felt this pressure to be absolutely perfect,'' he said of his address on Tuesday. ''It's, I guess, raising yourself to the greater expectation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson has been loudly ringing the alarm on New York's economic woes this week. He spoke Thursday at the National Press Club in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



50 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: British Airways Reports a 90% Plunge in Profit and a Weakened Outlook

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In a stark sign of the turmoil in aviation because of the surge in fuel prices, Europe's leading trans-Atlantic airline, British Airways, said Friday that its first-quarter earnings had collapsed in the period from April to June, and revised its revenue outlook downward for the full year.
 ''We are in the worst trading environment the industry has ever faced,'' the airline's chief executive, Willie Walsh, said Friday. ''The combination of unprecedented oil prices, economic slowdown and weaker consumer confidence has led to substantially lower first quarter profits.'' 
 Just three days after it announced plans to merge with the Spanish flagship airline, Iberia, British Airways said that its quarterly profit had plunged 90 percent, to $:27 million ($53.5 million) on a 2.8 percent increase in revenue to $:2.259 billion.
 British Airways' bleak results confirm predictions of a dire outlook for the aviation industry coming notably from the international aviation body IATA, which says that 25 airlines worldwide have ceased operations since the start of this year. 
 The major European airline that carries the greatest volume of traffic between Europe and the United States, British Airways is exposed on several fronts to the current somber operating climate.
 ''They have the worst exposure on currency, oil prices, and on route and destination network,'' said Nick van den Brul, a transport analyst at BNP Paribas in London.
 Not only does it have the lowest oil price protections in place among the big three European carriers, British Airways is also uniquely vulnerable to the slowing economies of both Britain and the United States, Mr. van den Brul said. It also lacks the benefit of a strong euro against the dollar enjoyed by its two larger competitors -- the French-Dutch carrier Air France-KLM and Germany airline Lufthansa, which is still benefiting from its merger with Swiss Air.
 On Tuesday, Lufthansa reported a 59 percent drop in its first-half net profit compared with last year, when earnings were lifted by one-time gains. Lufthansa said it earned 402 million euros ($625 million) in the January-June period, down from 992 million euros a year earlier -- a figure that was helped by the sale of a stake in the travel operator Thomas Cook.
 Air France-KLM is set to report quarterly figures on Tuesday.
 With fuel costs up 49 percent compared with the same period last year, Mr. Walsh said that British Airways was reducing its winter capacity by 3.1 percent and raising ticket prices, and warned that this would hurt volumes.
 ''We are focused on achieving a small profit in the current financial year,'' Mr. Walsh said.
 The company is paying more than $:8 million a day just to keep its aircraft flying and said that it expected its annual fuel bill to exceed $:3 billion this year, after paying more than $:700 million in the quarter.
 Like Air France-KLM and Southwest Airlines, British Airways hedges its fuel price exposure. It said Friday that steps to do so had brought its some relief -- every $1 increase in the price of crude oil will knock $:8 million off its earnings, rather than $:16 million, it said.
 It forecast full-year revenue would grow by ''around 3 percent,'' compared with its previous forecast for an increase of 4 percent.
 On Monday, the low-cost Irish carrier Ryanair said its quarterly profit had dropped 85 percent, and its chairman, Michael O'Leary, said the carrier could record its first annual loss since 1989 amid fuel costs that have doubled at a time of weakening demand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Willie Walsh, the chief executive of British Airways.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PEDRO ARMESTRE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); EURO (86%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR FARES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); MERGERS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); STATISTICS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (85%); BNP PARIBAS SA (54%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (53%); THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (85%); BNP (PAR) (54%); BNP (BIT) (54%); AF (PAR) (53%); AF (AMS) (53%); TCG (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: WILLIE WALSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



51 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: With Genie Out of the Bottle, Obama Treads Carefully on Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from Panama City, Fla.

 BODY:
 Senator Barack Obama is a man of few rhetorical stumbles, but this week a few of his words opened a racial door his campaign would prefer not to step through. When Senator John McCain's camp replied by accusing him of playing the race card from the bottom of the deck, the Obama campaign seemed at least momentarily off balance. 
 The instinctive urge to punch back was tempered by the fact that race is a fire that could singe both candidates. So on Friday the Obama campaign, a carefully controlled lot on the best of days, reacted most cautiously as it sought to tamp down any sense that it was at war with Mr. McCain over who was the first to inject race into the contest. Mr. Obama made no mention of the issue, except for a brief reference in an interview with a local newspaper in Florida.
 ''I was in Union, Mo., which is 98 percent white, a rural conservative, and what I said was what I think everyone knows, which is that I don't look like I came out of central casting when it comes to presidential candidates,'' he told The St. Petersburg Times. ''There was nobody there who thought at all that I was trying to inject race in this.'' 
 The furor started on Thursday when Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, said, ''Barack Obama has played the race card, and he played it from the bottom of the deck.'' Mr. Davis was alluding to Mr. Obama's remarks on Wednesday that Republicans would try to scare voters by pointing out that he ''doesn't look like all those other presidents on the dollar bills.''
 As Mr. Obama carefully addressed the issue on Friday, his campaign's formidable network of grass-roots activists, and the Web sites crafted to give them ''talking points'' to carry into battle against Republicans, remained uncharacteristically quiet on the matter, even though the issue dominated political blogs for a second straight day. 
 David Plouffe, the campaign manager, talked briefly, and not too eagerly, about it. And the campaign's chief strategist, David Axelrod, blamed the Republicans for misconstruing Mr. Obama's words as an attack, and quickly moved on.
 The muted response should not be taken, even campaign insiders acknowledged, to reflect high-mindedness; the Obama campaign can wield a rhetorical gutting knife. There simply was no percentage for the first black major-party presidential candidate in the nation's history to draw too much attention to his race, much less get into a shooting war with the Republicans over the combustible issue.
 ''For our part, there is no stake in abetting that strategy,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''The best we could do is call this and move on.''
 By the day's end, Mr. McCain proclaimed that he did not want to dwell on the issue either, although he repeated his campaign's central charge that his probable opponent had injected race into their battle.
 ''He brought up the issue of race; I responded to it,'' Mr. McCain told reporters in Panama City, Fla. ''I don't want that issue to be part of this campaign. I'm ready to move on. And I think we should move on.''
 For Mr. Obama, the risks of fighting back are that anything that calls attention to the racial dynamics of the contest would potentially polarize voters and stir unease about his candidacy, particularly among white voters in swing states. He is, after all, a candidate who has sought to transcend his own racial heritage in appealing to the broad electorate.
 ''Ideally, you want to punch back right to the solar plexus,'' said Chris Lehane, a Democratic strategist. ''But when race gets injected, given the 200-year history of this country, it is really fraught with peril.'' 
 More broadly, the battles this week over Mr. Obama's comments and Mr. McCain's efforts to link Mr. Obama's celebrity to that of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears raised the question for some political types of both parties about whether Mr. Obama is aggressive enough to lunge for the Republican jugular. 
 Although his campaign has been known to fire volleys back at Mr. McCain, and Mr. Obama has often been critical of Mr. McCain's policies in his speeches, opportunities to draw blood have come and gone. And he finds challenges on many fronts these days, including at one of his rallies on Friday, where seven self-styled African revolutionaries began shouting and pointing at him, accusing him of undermining revolutionary struggle.
 This was perhaps one of Mr. Obama's easier moments of the week, as the crowd was allied as one with him. He motioned the crowd to let the revolutionaries have their say, and then he responded.
 ''I may not have spoken out the way you want me to speak out,'' he said. ''But I am suggesting that I have spoken out, and spoken out forcefully.''
 After two straight defeats in presidential elections, Democrats sometimes speak of hungering for a more aggressive standard-bearer to confront Republican attacks. Some wonder why, every time he speaks of the economy, Mr. Obama does not mention that Mr. McCain's chief economic adviser referred to a ''mental'' recession rather than a real one.
 ''I am somewhat mystified that he isn't attacking much harder on the policy front,'' said Ronald Walters, a political scientist at the University of Maryland. ''He needs to rev up his attacks, and his proposals.''
 But this is to some extent Mr. Obama's sleight of hand. He relies heavily on surrogates, and tends to back into his attacks. So he cues up Mr. McCain as ''an honorable man'' and a ''war hero,'' before skewering him as lacking in ideas.
 He has, too, a Teflon quality that reminds Democratic strategists of Ronald Reagan. He can get himself in trouble with words, he can flip-flop on a position or three, and little sticks.
 ''Obama and Reagan are quite similar in this regard,'' said Jim Jordan, a Democratic strategist who managed John Kerry's unsuccessful presidential campaign in 2004. ''They deflect humor with a quip.''
 So Mr. Obama spoke to a crowd of supporters in Orlando, Fla., on Friday, and poked fun at Mr. McCain. ''We were expecting a more elevated debate,'' he said. ''They are running commercials about Hilton and Britney -- I mean, that's frivolous.''
 Still, the candidate has the peculiar habit of rehearsing his faults for listeners, apparently in an effort to inoculate himself against attacks. And that could be how Mr. Obama got himself tangled up in race.
 The candidate and Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, traveled this week around the Republican precincts of rural Missouri. Ms. McCaskill tried to set minds at ease by recalling an ''old Ozark habit'' of saying ''they say,'' as in, they say he's too young, they say he's not the right color. 
 So far, so politically artful; she never specified Republicans, much less Mr. McCain. 
 But when Mr. Obama traveled this rhetorical ground, he tripped. ''So nobody really thinks that Bush or McCain have a real answer for the challenges we face, so what they're going to try to do is make you scared of me,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You know, he's not patriotic enough. He's got a funny name. You know, he doesn't look like all those other presidents on those dollar bills.''
 Even some Republicans are not convinced that Mr. Obama intended to accuse Mr. McCain of racism, as there's no percentage for him. Mr. McCain talks of himself as experienced but never, ever, old; Mr. Obama talks of change but charily of his status as a historic first.
 ''He's the candidate who happens to be African-American,'' Mr. Lehane said. ''He's much more effective when he can just throw McCain's words back at him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama addressed hecklers after he finished a speech in St. Petersburg, Fla., on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A customer picked out some peaches for Senator Barack Obama on Friday at the Parkesdale Farm Market in Plant City, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CONSERVATISM (72%); HISTORY (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



52 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: New York Gay Couples Head to Massachusetts With Marriage in Mind

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
Gabriel Blau and Dylan Stein will be heading to Amherst, Mass., in a matter of weeks to complete a marriage ceremony they started two years ago.
 At the couple's Jewish wedding in a Hell's Kitchen loft in 2006, they had a floral-embroidered chuppah, stomped on a glass in front of 175 friends and relatives, and were hoisted on chairs amid a hora-dancing throng. But one thing was missing: a marriage certificate.
 This week, they called their rabbi to arrange another service, this one in Massachusetts, which on Thursday repealed a century-old law preventing out-of-state residents from marrying there if their home states would not recognize the union.
 Because Gov. David A. Paterson directed New York State agencies in May to recognize gay marriages performed in other jurisdictions, Mr. Blau and Mr. Stein are among scores of couples expected to tie -- or retie -- the knot in coming months. 
 While some New Yorkers have flown across the country to marry in California since May, when that state became the nation's second to approve same-sex marriage, gay-rights advocates expect many more to do the same in Massachusetts, since it is so much closer.
 ''We call it the Amtrak option, as opposed to the Jet Blue option,'' said Cathy Renna, a communications consultant to gay and lesbian organizations.
 Alan Van Capelle, executive director of Empire State Pride Agenda, a leading gay-rights group, said, ''I think this is an incredible opportunity for same-sex New York couples who are hungry for some of the 1,324 rights and responsibilities married couples receive to obtain them.''
 Governor Paterson's decision placed New York alongside Rhode Island and New Mexico in recognizing same-sex marriages performed in Massachusetts, according to a Boston-based advocacy group, Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders.
 A June memo from the Massachusetts Office of Housing and Economic Development estimated that 21,000 gay couples from New York might go there to marry if the state allowed. That is about 43 percent of the estimated 49,000 same-sex couples in New York. About 9,600 same-sex couples from Massachusetts married in the first three years after the state legalized such unions in 2004.
 With Governor Paterson's blessing, New Yorkers who get married in Massachusetts -- or Canada or California -- will be eligible for a host of benefits that they cannot receive now, according to Mr. Van Capelle of the Pride Agenda. Firefighters and police officers in particular have a lot to gain, because the state gives significant benefits to the spouses of emergency workers killed in the line of duty. 
 For Darcy Rickard, 39, of Albany, one of the main benefits of a marriage certificate will be a tax break. After her Massachusetts wedding, planned for October in Provincetown, her partner, Debbie Rodrigues, 44, will be eligible for coverage under Ms. Rickard's health insurance, without having to pay state tax on the value of those benefits.
 (Federal tax will have to be paid, since the federal government does not recognize gay marriages at all.) 
 And when they travel with Ms. Rickard's 13-year-old daughter, they will no longer need to carry a ream of legal papers to prove their relationship at hospitals if one of them becomes ill or is injured in an accident. In addition, Ms. Rickard said, legally married partners have more rights in the case of a breakup.
 ''But really, the driving reason to get married is because we love each other,'' she said. ''When you're committed, you want to show it.'' 
 Ms. Rickard fretted that by not yet allowing same-sex marriages, New York is missing out.
 ''It's money we're going to spend in Massachusetts, not in New York,'' she said of the wedding they are planning. 
 The New York City comptroller's office estimated in a June 2007 report that allowing gay marriage could bring $142 million to the local economy in the first three years. The state would collect an additional $8 million in taxes and the city would collect an additional $7 million, and companies in New York would benefit from a wider pool of possible employees attracted by the change in marriage laws, the report projected.
 A June analysis by the Williams Institute at the U.C.L.A. School of Law, on the other hand, estimated that Massachusetts could add $111 million to the economy over three years by taking the step it did this week to allow out-of-state couples to marry there. The report also suggested that the move could result in 330 new jobs and increase state and local revenues by $5.1 million. 
 Figures about how many New York couples have traveled out of state to get married or enter into civil unions are nearly impossible to come by, advocates said.
 Assemblyman Daniel J. O'Donnell, a Democrat who represents the Upper West Side, expressed concern that New York might now have a caste system, with gay couples who can afford to go to Massachusetts or California enjoying more rights than those who cannot do so. But he also said that more married gay couples living in the state could help his efforts to pass a gay marriage law.
 ''Local officials will see that no harm comes to anyone for their constituents' having access to a marriage license,'' he said.
 But a Christian group that sued Governor Paterson over his gay-marriage directive questioned whether the Massachusetts marriages would be valid in New York before resolution of the lawsuit, which is scheduled for a court hearing on Thursday.
 ''The people have not had a voice in this, either in Massachusetts or New York,'' said Glen Lavy, senior counsel with the group, the Alliance Defense Fund, based in Scottsdale, Ariz. ''So this is simply short-circuiting the democratic process.''
 Assemblyman O'Donnell is one of many gay-marriage advocates waiting to be able to marry in their own states. 
 Evan Wolfson, executive director of Freedom to Marry, a national advocacy group based in New York, said that many people he talked to wanted to be able to marry at home, ''and I count myself among them.''
 ''I don't think New Yorkers should have to go to Niagara Falls, Canada, to have what we should have in Niagara Falls, New York,'' he said.
 But Deborah and Mia Jacoby-Twigg of Highland Mills, N.Y., were tired of waiting. At 1:15 p.m. on Friday, they became the first out-of-state gay couple to marry in Provincetown, Mass., the clerk in charge told them.
 Already on vacation on Cape Cod, they drove to the town of Orleans, a half-hour away, to get a waiver of the standard three-day waiting period for a marriage license and find a solemnizer, who conducted the service as their 3-year-old sons, Noah and Nate, ran around in the municipal auditorium.
 ''The solemnizer asked if we had rings, and I said I'd been wearing mine for 10 years and don't think I can get it off,'' said Deborah Jacoby-Twigg, 51. 
 For her, the marriage means the end of the perpetual confusion she faced when filling out official forms. 
 ''I can check 'married' in New York, and that means a lot,'' she said. ''Our boys have two legally married moms, and that's a beautiful thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gabriel Blau, left, and Dylan Stein, both 28, live in an apartment in the East Village with their son, Elijah, 5 1/2 months. They plan to go to Massachusetts so they can get married legally.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); COHABITATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



53 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2367 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 CONFLICT FOR EGYPT'S CHRISTIANS 
 But It's Not About Religion
 When is a crime not a crime? When it's an incident, say Egyptian officials on the rising sectarian violence between Muslims and Christians. About 10 percent of Egypt's 80 million people are Christian, and people say that conflicts have risen as religious identity has become more prominent. As officials protest the suggestion that religion has played a role in the clashes, it is a struggle to hear them over the voices of others who acknowledge the problem as an urgent one. Page A5 
 CHINA OPENS (A LITTLE) TO THE PRESS
 President Hu Jintao of China held a press conference for foreign journalists regarding the Olympic Games. But he controlled the flow of information to a trickle for a select number of organizations, of which The New York Times was not one. At the conference Mr. Hu offered no actual news, preferring instead to speak warmly of the Olympics and denounce anybody who would dare to politicize the Games. Page A6 
 PAKISTAN URGED TO REIN IN SPIES
 The Bush administration is increasing pressure on Pakistan to bring its intelligence service to civilian heel. As relations between India and Pakistan have deteriorated, along with a recent embassy bombing in India that was linked to Pakistan's intelligence service, Washington has grown more concerned. The concern is particularly acute because the intelligence service has become more open in its support of militant Islamist organizations, playing to the long-held belief of ties between the two. Page A5 
 CHaVEZ EXTENDS ECONOMIC CONTROL
 The surprise announcement by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela of the nationalization of a Spanish-owned bank sent ripples of fear of inflation that the central bank worked to quell. He sent another tremor through the country by using special decree powers to pass 26 laws, including banking reform, but no further details were released. It is his latest effort to increase state control over the economy by takeovers of privately owned companies. Page A7 
 NEW ROUND OF INQUIRIES FOR OLMERT
 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel underwent a fourth round of questions in his corruption hearing. The inquest went on for three hours, an hour longer than intended, and was described by a police spokesman as intensive. Questions centered around allegations from the years before his appointment as prime minister, as mayor of Jerusalem and as a government minister. Page A8 
 ORE FOR NOTHING, POWER FOR FREE
 Divinity and mysticism could be one way to describe Joao Carlos Cavalcanti, the Brazilian mining magnate with a net worth estimated at $1.2 billion. It could be just business savvy, but the man himself believes he owes his success to his connection to ''the cosmos.'' He refers to himself as mystical and meditates three hours a day in between acquiring expensive cars and fine paintings. Page A8 
 National
 QAEDA LEADER PLAYS DOWN 
 Detainee's Role in Attacks
 Defense lawyers for Salim Hamdan, Osama bin Laden's former driver, rested their case on Friday after less than two days, bringing testimony to a close in the first American war crimes trial since World War II. The lawyers ended their case with written submissions from former senior operatives of Al Qaeda, including Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the self-described architect of the 2001 attacks. The statements were intended to bolster the claim that Mr. Hamdan was only a low-level employee with no involvement in terrorism. PAGE A9
 A DEATH PROMPTS AGENCY OVERHAUL
 Nine people were charged in connection with the death of Danieal Kelly, a 14-year-old with cerebral palsy who starved in a dark room in a West Philadelphia apartment in 2006 after her mother stopped feeding her enough to live. Two social workers from a city agency were among those charged, and the case prompted the agency to address systemic problems that have led to a series of other deaths. PAGE A11
 A CHARRED MANSION, A BLACK EYE
 It has been almost two months since an arsonist tossed a Molotov cocktail over the wall of the Governor's Mansion in Texas, starting a fire that gutted the landmark. The Texas Rangers still don't have a suspect, and their response to the initial fire and the subsequent investigation have become something of an embarrassment to the law enforcement agency, which sees itself as something akin to Scotland Yard, albeit on horseback. PAGE A9
 MAN CHARGED WITH HATE CRIME
 The beating death of Angie Zapata, a transgender woman in Greeley, Colo., is part of a significant increase in violence committed against gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender people in Colorado. Allen Ray Andrade was charged with murdering Ms. Zapata, and the district attorney said he would prosecute the killing as a hate crime, which carries an additional 18-month sentence. PAGE A13
 PUSHING FOR A CLEARER SPF
 Last summer, the Food and Drug Administration said it would standardize the labeling on sunscreens, giving consumers more detailed information about their efficacy. But that has not happened yet, and Senators Chris J. Dodd of Connecticut and Jack Reed of Rhode Island introduced a bill that would make the F.D.A. adopt new rules, after saying the agency appeared to be moving at a deliberately slow pace for the benefit of sunscreen manufacturers. PAGE A28
 3 TEENAGERS KILLED BY GUNMAN
 A gunman emerged from the woods near Niagara, Wis., and opened fire on a group of teenagers near the river, killing three. The police said they knew of no motive or connection between the suspect, Scott J. Johnson, 38, and the victims. ''The question right now is why?'' a school administrator said. ''That's the question on everyone's mind.'' PAGE A9
 New York Report
 WITH THEIR MINDS ON MARRIAGE,
 A Procession to Massachusetts
 Massachusetts on Thursday repealed a century-old law that prevents out-of-state residents from marrying there if their home states would not recognize the union. And so, since Gov. David A. Paterson of New York told state agencies in May to recognize gay marriages performed in other jurisdictions, scores of couples are expected to make the short trip to Massachusetts to tie the knot. PAGE A14
 LIVING TO TELL ABOUT IT
 A 12-year-old girl fell 180 feet down a chimney at the Westbeth building, a rambling artists' complex on West Street in Manhattan. But when firefighters opened the door at the bottom of the chimney, and the small, soot-covered hand of Grace Bergere popped out, ''I just jumped back,'' a firefighter at the scene said. ''I wasn't expecting anybody alive at the bottom of the shaft, so I was shocked.'' PAGE A15
 Business
 NOT AN ARM AND A LEG! NO, REALLY!
 As customers tighten their belts in a sluggish economy, Whole Foods -- often derisively called Whole Paycheck -- is out to convince food shoppers that a visit to its stores can be economical. But changing customers' minds has not been easy. ''When you walk into these big beautiful stores, it's hard for a consumer to think that it is a value-oriented type of retailer,'' an analyst said. PAGE B1
 RULING BOLSTERS 'NET NEUTRALITY'
 The Federal Communications Commission voted to sanction Comcast, saying the cable company illegally inhibited users of its high-speed Internet service from using popular file-sharing software, and ordered that it cease blocking such software by the end of the year. The case highlights the broader issue of whether new legislation is needed to force Internet providers to treat all uses of their networks equally, a concept called network neutrality. PAGE B1
 A PLUNGE IN U.S. AUTO SALES
 Vehicle sales in the United States fell last month to their lowest level in 16 years, as consumers continued to shun large trucks because of high gas prices, and tight credit kept less creditworthy customers off lots. That meant more bad news for Detroit, as General Motors, Chrysler and Ford each posted substantial sales declines. PAGE B5
 REPORT SAYS WORKER HID TRADES
 A report by French financial regulators found that Jerome Kerviel, the former trader who cost Societe Generale nearly $7.2 billion, took advantage of his managers' negligence to hide the unauthorized transactions. The report contradicts Mr. Kerviel's assertions that his superiors at France's second-largest bank were aware of what he was doing. PAGE B5
 ARTS
 A POTENTIAL NEW HIT
 Tests the Limits of Crudity
 ''Tropic Thunder'' is an R-rated movie-industry spoof with a $90 million production budget that has hit potential: its ensemble cast includes Ben Stiller, Robert Downey Jr., Jack Black, Matthew McConaughey, Steve Coogan, Nick Nolte -- and Tom Cruise, in a raucous cameo. It also gives Paramount Pictures the delicate task of selling what may be the raunchiest comedy yet. PAGE A17 
 ASSESSING DR. HORRIBLE
 ''Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog,'' the 42-minute online musical from Joss Whedon, of ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' (and for a smaller audience, ''Firefly'') fame, has met with viewer and critical raves. But is it worth all the attention? ''If the comparison is with other Web content, 'Dr. Horrible' is a winner,'' Mike Hale writes. ''If the comparison is with television, the answer is murkier.'' PAGE A17 
 MORE VAMPIRE FEVER
 Barnes & Noble expected more than 100,000 fans at 900 ''Twilight''-themed parties at its Waldenbooks and Borders stores to welcome the publication of ''Breaking Dawn,'' the fourth and final in Stephenie Meyer's vampire-romance series. That's quite a change from the ''maybe 50'' who showed up to greet the first one in 2005 at the Changing Hands bookstore in Tempe, Ariz. PAGE A17 
 Obituaries
 H. TRACY HALL, 88
 At the Research Laboratory of General Electric in Schenectady, N.Y., he and his team used a powerful hydraulic press to subject carbon to extreme pressures and create a sample of tiny, synthetic diamonds. He and two of his colleagues were granted a patent in 1960 for their novel method of making diamonds, which were used in industrial machinery. PAGE C10
 LUTHER DAVIS, 91
 He won a Tony award in 1954 for writing the book of the musical ''Kismet,'' which, as a crossbreed of high culture and low, was one of the more peculiar entries in Broadway's history. As a screenwriter, he wrote 15 movies and dozens of scripts for television series, including ''The Hucksters,'' with Clark Gable, and ''Lady in a Cage'' with Olivia de Havilland. PAGE C10
 STANLEY E. MICHELS, 75
 The former New York City councilman was an outspoken proponent of environmental laws and was the prime sponsor of the Clean Indoor Air Act, the city's first law regulating smoking in public places. It required that nonsmoking areas be established in all enclosed public spaces designed to accommodate more than 10 people. PAGE C10
 SPORTS
 RUSSIANS HOLD TONGUES
 On Athlete Suspensions, For Now
 The Russian Track and Field Federation has decided ''to take no action until after the end of the Olympics,'' in response to the suspension of seven female athletes, including five Olympians, after accusations that they violated international antidoping rules. But the Russian media suggested that the suspensions had the ring of a conspiracy. ''It is a Provocation; They're just scared of us!'' read a newspaper headline. Page B13
 MANNY BEING MANNY, ELSEWHERE
 Red Sox players and fans reacted to news that the star slugger Manny Ramirez had been traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers with relief, though they were careful not to bad-mouth the mercurial Ramirez. Fan reaction was decidedly more mixed. ''I'm not sorry to see him go, even if he puts up good numbers,'' one fan said. ''He's Joe Torre's problem now.'' PAGE B13
 Sharapova to Sit Out of U.S. Open B14
 THIS WEEKEND
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Jerry Yang, chief executive of Yahoo, says the company has a plan it is executing ''despite all the stuff that's happened to us.'' Stuff, in this case, being the turbulence that has engulfed Yahoo since Microsoft made an unsolicited takeover bid in January. But for many shareholders, the idea that Mr. Yang and his team are changing Yahoo for the better is little more than an illusion. PAGE 1
 BOOK REVIEW
 Ammon Shea set a task for himself: to read the Oxford English Dictionary, all 59 million words, in a year -- the equivalent, Nicholson Baker notes, of one John Grisham novel a day. In the resulting book, ''Reading the O.E.D.,'' Mr. Shea ''has walked the wildwood of our gnarled, ancient speech,'' Mr. Baker says in his review. PAGE 10
 THE MAGAZINE
 The fight between the Shiites and the Sunnis in Iraq seems to be quieting down. But the Shiites still have one fight left -- among themselves. PAGE 34
 PLAY MAGAZINE
 The Beijing Olympics approach, with 10,708 athletes scheduled to compete in 302 events. In other words, far too many of both to try to keep up with. So, don't. Here's a breakdown of 10 competitions (one of which is the decathlon, which of course is 10 of its own) to keep an eye on, starting with table tennis, which the hosts figure to do pretty well in. PAGE 23
 Editorial
 THE NEXT STEP FOR WORLD TRADE
 The breakdown of the Doha round of trade negotiations over a clash between the United States and China and India about farm protections underscored how these new economic giants are changing the balance of power. Page A26
 TIME FOR REAL FUEL ECONOMY
 The political landscape is littered with squandered opportunities to avert the $4-a-gallon gasoline mess we find ourselves in now. Another such opportunity is fast approaching, and it would be foolish to miss it. Page A26
 LONG OVERDUE CRANE SAFETY
 The Bush administration generally prefers to fiddle instead of regulating as problems approach crisis proportions, but its failure to address accidents involving construction cranes is particularly hard to grasp. Page A26
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 The McCain campaign has unloaded on Barack Obama in ways that are untruthful, personally demeaning, sleazy and racially exploitive. Page A27
 THE WOMEN BEHIND THE BOMBS
 In an Op-Ed article, Lindsay O'Rourke, a doctoral student at the University of Chicago who studies suicide bombings, writes that while a growing number of suicide attackers in Iraq are women, the issues that provoke them have nothing to do with gender. Page A26

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (85%); CORRUPTION (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); OLYMPICS (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAKEOVERS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); NATIONALIZATION (68%); BANKING LAW (68%); BOMBINGS (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (61%); PAINTING (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (74%); EHUD OLMERT (54%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (78%) EGYPT (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008



54 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Subprime Loans' Wide Reach

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHILE subprime loans deeply penetrated low-income and minority groups, a new study suggests that more upper-income borrowers and more whites took out such loans than any other groups. 
 Compliance Technologies, a lending-industry consultancy, last month analyzed more than 1.9 million subprime loans originated in 2006, the height of the subprime lending frenzy, and found that roughly 56 percent went to non-Hispanic whites. Affluent borrowers, those with annual income at least 120 percent of their given area's median income, meanwhile, took out more than 39 percent of the loans.
 ''I was surprised to see that non-Hispanic whites received more subprime loans than all minority groups combined,'' said Maurice Jourdain-Earl, a founder and managing director of Compliance Technologies.
 Still, African-Americans and Hispanics received subprime loans in a greater proportion than whites. Whites made up 71 percent of the borrower population in 2006 and received 56 percent of the subprime loans originated that year. Blacks, meanwhile, made up 10 percent of the loan pool, yet received 19 percent of the subprime loans. Hispanics constituted 14 percent of the borrower community and received 20 percent of the subprime loans.
 The reasons behind the disparities have been hotly debated. Some lenders have argued that minority populations were merely less creditworthy than whites, while some minority advocates claim lenders and brokers discriminated on the basis of race. Mr. Jourdain-Earl, whose company is minority owned, did not speculate on the cause.
 Researchers in the lending industry have not tracked how well members of different demographic groups have kept pace with subprime loans made in 2006. Lenders keep such data, but they have not shared it publicly.
 Of the subprime loans made in the New York metropolitan area, 80 percent went to upper-income people, defined as those with incomes greater than $71,000, and blacks, Hispanics and whites received such loans in roughly similar numbers.
 But more than two-thirds of those subprime loans -- defined as mortgages with annual percentage rates at least three points higher than those given to prime borrowers -- were made in predominantly minority neighborhoods. Depending on how well, or poorly, such borrowers handle their subprime mortgages, such neighborhoods could fare much worse than predominantly white areas.
 So far, though, the results are mixed. While some predominantly minority areas in Nassau County have indeed seen foreclosures spike, foreclosure rates in other predominantly minority areas, like Harlem, have held fairly steady. According to RealtyTrac, a real estate industry statistical firm, monthly foreclosure-related filings in west Harlem in the first six months of this year, for instance, are only slightly higher than they were a year earlier but actually lower than during the same period in 2006.
 Debbie Gruenstein Bocean, a researcher with the Center for Responsible Lending, and the author of a 2006 report suggesting that lenders offered higher-cost subprime loans to minority applicants than to whites, said she ''did not dispute'' the findings of Mr. Jourdain-Earl's report. 
 ''The subprime crisis is not limited to the poor and nonwhite,'' Ms. Bocean said.
 But, she said, it will hit nonwhites and lower-income families in general much harder. With fewer financial resources, less affluent borrowers are more likely to lose their homes, she said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: VARIOUS MORTAGE RATES FOR 30-YEAR FIXED-RATE, 15-YEAR FIXED RATE AND ADJUSTABLE LOANS (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (93%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



55 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: The Stars Have Yet To Align For Stocks

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CONDITIONS are most ripe for a bear market to end and a new bull market to begin when investor sentiment and fundamental and technical factors are all in alignment. Unfortunately, the rally that began three weeks ago is fully supported by investor sentiment alone, suggesting that the bottom of this bear market has not yet been reached.
 First, consider the technical evidence. Compared with the initial rallies after previous bear-market bottoms, the rally that began in mid-July has been disturbingly weak. In fact, during the first days of the climb, a relatively large number of stocks actually fell. That has led many analysts to conclude that the upward trend is likely to fizzle. 
 Take note of one particular indicator -- based on the proportion of shares trading on the New York Stock Exchange that rise in price in a given session. If July 15 were the bear-market low, according to many technical analysts, there should have been at least one trading session in the subsequent rally in which at least 90 percent of total trading volume was from shares rising in price. 
 Martin Zweig, president of Zweig-DiMenna Associates, a hedge fund firm in New York, calls such days ''9-to-1 up days.'' In his 1986 book, ''Winning on Wall Street,'' Mr. Zweig wrote that ''every bull market in history, and many good intermediate advances, have been launched with a buying stampede that included one or more 9-to-1 up days.''
 The market's rally over the last three weeks hasn't satisfied this precondition. This may seem surprising, because there have been three days -- July 16, 17 and 29 -- when the Dow Jones industrial average has risen by well more than 200 points. But the volume of rising shares on the Big Board never exceeded 82 percent on any of those days; on one of the three, July 17, it reached just 71 percent.
 Now consider the stock market's fundamental foundation: stocks are still not cheap, at least in relation to corporate earnings. On the contrary, the market remains more expensive than it has been at most other times in recent decades.
 This is well illustrated by the price-to-earnings ratio for stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index. It is now at 20.0 when calculated on the basis of trailing 12-month earnings, according to Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management, a hedge fund firm in Greenwich, Conn.; that is higher than 73 percent of the readings dating back to 1965.
 To be sure, corporate earnings are typically depressed during bear markets, thus inflating the P/E ratio. But even when taking this tendency into account, the market's current ratio is well above historical norms.
 This is demonstrated by the ratio of price to an average of inflation-adjusted earnings over the trailing 10-year period. Such a metric was proposed more than a decade ago by Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economics and finance professor, and John Y. Campbell, the Harvard economics professor, in part to sidestep the complexities caused by artificially high P/E ratios at bear-market bottoms. 
 Using that 10-year measure for the S.& P. 500, the ratio is now 21.8, or higher than 66 percent of comparable readings back to 1965, Mr. Asness said.
 CLEARLY, stocks are not as overvalued today as they were in early 2000, just before the Internet bubble burst and the bear market of 2000 to 2002 began. Nevertheless, the market remains far closer to the expensive than to the cheap end of the valuation spectrum.
 Investor sentiment is the one arena that provides strong support for a new bull market. Investment advisers are now more pessimistic than they have been since early 1995, according to Michael Burke and John Gray, editors of Investors Intelligence, a newsletter based in Larchmont, N.Y. This is an encouraging sign, they wrote to subscribers in late July, because market bottoms are typically accompanied by exceptionally high levels of despair. Sentiment alone, however, is not a strong foundation for a bull market. History suggests that when this bear market hits bottom -- whenever that may be -- stocks will have more attractive valuations and the subsequent market rally will be broader than the recent surge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TRENDS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



56 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN FLEETWOOD, MOUNT VERNON, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: In a City With Challenges, Much to Offer

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IN many ways, the Fleetwood area of Mount Vernon, in southern Westchester County, is a home buyer's dream, with its rich stock of Tudor, Mediterranean and colonial-style houses and Tudor and Art Deco apartment complexes. 
 Many of the streets in Fleetwood are lined with carefully tended lawns and lush gardens. And perhaps most appealing is the 30-minute rail commute on Metro-North from Fleetwood Station to Grand Central Terminal. 
 Shawn and Sharyn Kaufman bought a 1930s three-bedroom Arts-and-Crafts-style house in Fleetwood last year for $550,000, drawn by its proximity to the city. ''We would have paid far more in Tuckahoe or Bronxville, even for just an ordinary 1960s ranch,'' said Mr. Kaufman, a lighting designer. Mrs. Kaufman runs a children's theater group and was attracted to the growing arts community in Fleetwood.
 But living there entails more than just enjoying the shopping on bustling Gramatan Avenue. 
 Fleetwood is the northern part of Mount Vernon, a city of some 68,000 people that shoulders the burdens of a 14 percent poverty rate, according to the most recent census. The crime rate is high, with 2,446 serious crimes -- murder, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny and motor vehicle theft -- committed in 2007. And the public school system is troubled. The proposed school budget was defeated twice this year, forcing administrators to adopt austerity measures.
 Not only have the city's problems caused many potential home buyers to look elsewhere, but they have also prompted some longtime residents to flee. ''Once my children finished elementary school, we were out of here,'' said John D. Royce, the plumbing superintendent for the Buildings Department, and a father of three, who has since moved to nearby Eastchester. 
 W. L. Sawyer, the school district superintendent who was hired last fall, said he had recently found outdated social studies books listing Jimmy Carter as president that were still being used by students in Grades 7 through 12 at Mount Vernon High School, which is in the northeast part of the city, and serves students from throughout the district. 
 ''In many Westchester schools, they worry about new scoreboards for their football fields,'' Dr. Sawyer said. ''In our school district, we have to focus on more basic needs.'' 
 After the second budget was defeated in the spring, the district cut its entire interscholastic sports program. 
 The city's ''image problem,'' as Clinton I. Young Jr., the new mayor, describes it, is not confined to the schools. Mr. Young was elected last fall on promises to reduce crime, end patronage in city government and increase the tax base, in addition to working with the school board to improve the public education system.
 ''We have problems not unlike any other urban community in America,'' the mayor said. ''Poverty has weighed us down.'' 
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Unlike some of the other areas in Mount Vernon, Fleetwood has retained a small-town feeling. Many of its vintage homes are large and luxurious, competing in style and class -- but not price -- with those in the far more upscale communities of Pelham and Bronxville, which border Mount Vernon. Others homes are more modest, built on lots tucked between the larger homes.
 The area blossomed into a bedroom community in the 1920s, as New York City residents began streaming north. Over the years Fleetwood grew, eventually encompassing all of the 10552 ZIP code. 
 Woven through Fleetwood are smaller neighborhoods with names like Hunts Wood, Aubyn Manor and Pasadena Park ''that have been unofficially rolled into the entity of Fleetwood over the years,'' said Robert J. Granata, former president of the Fleetwood Neighborhood Association and a sales agent for Houlihan Lawrence in Mount Vernon.
 The area is also home to several prewar apartment complexes that have been converted to co-ops.
 The centerpiece of Fleetwood is the shopping enclave along Gramatan Avenue and Grand and Broad Streets, close to the Cross County Parkway. In addition to an A.&P. grocery store, there are a variety of smaller shops -- dry cleaners, a bagel shop, florists, a couple of bakeries and several restaurants. 
 There has been an influx of Brazilians in Mount Vernon in recent years; the most recent census data tracks the population as 60 percent black, 24 percent white and 10 percent Hispanic. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Fleetwood -- which has some of the most expensive real estate in the 4.4-square-mile city of Mount Vernon -- offers an array of prices for home buyers, from low-priced co-ops for first-time homeowners to more expensive houses.
 A two-bedroom co-op in a 1929 vintage three-story complex in Fleetwood has an asking price of $249,900. At the Park Lane, which was built in 1927, a co-op apartment on the top floor with three bedrooms and three baths, four exposures and 1,800 square feet of living space, is on the market for $475,000.
 Typical of the 1920s architecture of Fleetwood, a three-story four-bedroom Tudor with stained-glass windows, gargoyles and copper roof finials is on the market for $549,900. 
 By contrast, a three-bedroom colonial in Fleetwood but with a Bronxville post office address and annual taxes of $26,848, is on the market for $1,385 million. Without the Bronxville address, the asking price on the house would be about $700,000, said Mr. Granata at Houlihan Lawrence. If it were in Bronxville, within that village's school district, the asking price would be closer to $2.5 million, he said.
 WHAT TO DO
 Mount Vernon is so close to New York City that Samuel Spear Jr. and his wife, Kenya, both business consultants who live in the Park Lane Cooperative Apartments, sometimes drive south to the city for a night out on the town. 
 But many weekends Mr. and Mrs. Spear wife opt for more local spots, like the Bayou, a restaurant on Gramatan Avenue that features Louisiana crab cakes, crawfish pies and live music. For a movie, they often drive to Pelham, two miles away, to the Pelham Picture House, a 1920s theater. 
 For many Mount Vernon residents, the church is a major focus of social as well as religious life, said Mr. Spear, a deacon at Grace Baptist Church in the central part of Mount Vernon. The church was started by five black Baptist women in 1888 and runs many after-school programs for youth.
 For youngsters during the summer months, Mount Vernon offers a variety of choices, including the 23-acre Wilson's Woods in the southeastern section of the city. One of Westchester's oldest county parks, it has an English Tudor-style bathhouse, a wave pool, water slides and a water playground. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 The loss of the sports program has served as a call to action. ''A battle is under way to reshape and reform the schools,'' said Charles Stern, president of the school board. 
 Mr. Stern and his wife, Debra, who is president of the Mount Vernon Parent Teachers Association, live in Fleetwood and send their children to the public schools. They are among those spearheading an effort to ultimately raise $950,000 from private sources to reinstate sports.
 The Mount Vernon City School District has 11 elementary schools, 2 middle schools and 3 high schools: Mount Vernon; the Nellie A. Thornton High School, which opened last year and is gradually adding grades; and an alternative high school, Nelson R. Mandela Community High School. Total enrollment in the school district is 10,046.
 Dr. Sawyer attributed the defeat of the school budget to a number of factors, including ''leftover feelings of mistrust'' among the public about the inability of previous boards of education to address theneeds of students. 
 But also, he said, because of the high rate of poverty in the city, many Mount Vernon residents -- especially in the current economy -- could not afford to shoulder a heavier tax burden. He also pointed to voters who send their children to private schools and, he said, are not vested in the public school system.
 At Mount Vernon High School, of 424 students in last year's senior class, 375 graduated. Of those, 45 percent went on to four-year colleges, 31 percent enrolled in two-year institutions, and the others chose either the military or employment, said Desiree Grand, a spokeswoman for the school district.
 SAT scores for Mount Vernon seniors in 2007 were significantly below the averages for the state, according to the New York State Education Department. The Mount Vernon average test scores were 417 for critical reading, 410 for math and 415 for writing, compared with state averages of 491, 505 and 482 respectively, said Nellie Perez, a spokeswoman for the state.
 THE COMMUTE
 Metro-North's Harlem Line stops at the Mount Vernon West and Fleetwood stations. The New Haven Line has a stop at Mount Vernon East. The 8:01 a.m. from Fleetwood arrives in Grand Central Terminal at 8:30 a.m. A round-trip ticket purchased at the station costs $15.50. A monthly ticket purchased on the Web costs $165.62.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE AVENUE: Gramatan Avenue is part of a shopping enclave, along with Broad and Grand Streets, that has a grocery store along with a variety of shops, small businesses and restaurants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Fleetwood, New York in Westchester County 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); POOR POPULATION (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); CRIME RATES (71%); BURGLARY (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (70%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); POVERTY RATES (66%); MURDER (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (66%); VEHICLE THEFT (66%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); ROBBERY (65%); MAYORS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



57 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
LEVIATHAN: The History of Whaling in America, by Eric Jay Dolan. (Norton, $15.95.) ''Much of America's culture, economy and in fact its spirit were literally and figuratively rendered from the bodies of whales,'' Dolan writes in this exhaustive, richly detailed history of one of America's strangest industries. Colonists looked for whales on the beach and transformed their blubber into oil or candles; later, they pursued whales swimming close to shore. By the 18th century, they had to venture farther, embarking on voyages that lasted weeks or months. The golden age of whaling, from about 1815 to 1860, was, Dolan says, when ''Captain Ahab met his match,'' and ''when the American whalemen ... attained mythic status.'' That ended when oil was discovered in Pennsylvania in 1859. 
 THE SHADOW CATCHER, by Marianne Wiggins. (Simon & Schuster, $15.) Marianne Wiggins's novel ''The Shadow Catcher'' is about a writer named Marianne Wiggins whose novel ''The Shadow Catcher,'' about the photographer Edward S. Curtis, is under discussion in Hollywood. These chapters, written in the first person, alternate with others from a historical novel about Curtis's wife, Clara; we also hear about the Curtis manuscript the Wiggins character has written, which intersects in odd ways with developing events in her own life. ''Fictive memoir? Fact-based novel?'' our reviewer, Richard B. Woodward, asked. ''I don't care. ... I'll gladly read it again.'' 
 I'VE GOT A HOME IN GLORY LAND: A Lost Tale of the Underground Railroad, by Karolyn Smardz Frost. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) A slave couple who fled north were captured and about to be sent back to Kentucky in chains when they were rescued and spirited into Canada. In a landmark trial, a Canadian court ruled they had committed no crime and could not be extradited. That made the country a refuge for fugitive slaves; 35,000 of them settled there before the Civil War. Frost, an archaeologist, discovered the remains of the couple's home beneath a Toronto schoolyard in 1985 and spent the next two decades piecing together their story. In HARRIET TUBMAN: Imagining a Life (Anchor, $15.95), the novelist Beverly Lowry offers the story of Tubman, a hero of the Underground Railroad, ''as I have studied and reimagined it, based on documentation and previous publications.'' She signals clearly when she moves from fact into invention. 
 AWAY, by Amy Bloom. (Random House, $14.) A young woman who survived a Russian pogrom in which her family was butchered is the protagonist of Bloom's novel. Its first half is a vivid immigrant tale, capturing the everyday struggle of living on the Lower East Side. Then the woman sets out for Siberia by way of Alaska to pursue the rumor that her small daughter is still alive. Writing in the Book Review, Louisa Thomas praised Bloom's ''brilliantly sketched characters'' and the ''elegant and surprising moves'' of her plot. 
 STATECRAFT: And How to Restore America's Standing in the World, by Dennis Ross. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) Ross, a veteran diplomat who served in the Reagan, Bush 1 and Clinton administrations, offers a ''neoliberal agenda for U.S. foreign policy.'' ''Statecraft done well never guarantees success,'' he says, but it ''certainly creates the best chance for it.'' 
 THE NIGHT CALLS, by David Pirie. (Pegasus, $14.95.) In his second period mystery featuring the team of Arthur Conan Doyle and the criminologist Dr. Joseph Bell, Pirie expertly renders 19th-century idiom as he shows the two tracking a clever killer who stalks prostitutes. 
 LIBERTY: The Lives and Times of Six Women in Revolutionary France, by Lucy Moore. (Harper Perennial, $16.95.) Six women, including Madame de Stael and the chocolate-maker Pauline Leon, are the subjects of this lively account, which reveals that revolutionary tributes to the virtues of Woman didn't mean much. ''Ah! That they would worship us less and set us free,'' one of their contemporaries wrote. 
 THE MAN IN THE WHITE SHARKSKIN SUIT: A Jewish Family's Exodus From Old Cairo to the New World, by Lucette Lagnado. (Harper Perennial, $14.95.) Lagnado's well-to-do Jewish family left Cairo in 1963, after Nasser came to power. This memoir tracks their unhappy journey to New York, but it focuses on her father, a prosperous businessman and elegant boulevardier, and his city. 
 VIE FRANCAISE, by Jean-Paul Dubois. Translated by Linda Coverdale. (Vintage, $14.95.) The first of Dubois's many novels to be translated into English follows an ordinary Frenchman whose life intersects with recent history as he moves from revolutionary fervor through yuppie nest-feathering through success as a best-selling photographer through betrayal and financial ruin. 
 SIN IN THE SECOND CITY: Madams, Ministers, Playboys, and the Battle for America's Soul, by Karen Abbott. (Random House, $15.) This ''lush love letter to the underworld,'' as our reviewer, Ada Calhoun, called it, is a history of an elegant early-20th-century Chicago brothel, the Everleigh Club, and a meditation on (as Calhoun put it) the ''interdependence of hedonism and puritanism in America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); WOMEN (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); BEACHES (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); EXTRADITION (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); SLAVERY (68%); LITIGATION (67%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



58 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; THE SYSTEM; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 4580 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE REQUESTS THAT CITIZEN LIU WIN GOLD

BYLINE: BY JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
It is May 24, a hazy Saturday night, and 50,000 people with maybe a passing interest in track and field are witnessing a meaningless competition at Beijing's new Olympic showcase, the National Stadium.
 The turnout is worth noting: it dwarfs the average attendance at last year's world championships in Osaka, Japan. The 50,000 people are here because Liu Xiang, China's most celebrated athlete and its first and only male track-and-field gold medalist, is on the card tonight. 
 He materializes on the stadium's huge digital screens at 9:35 p.m., and the crowd roars. His narrow, handsome face is instantly recognizable -- it adorns airport terminals, train stations and highway billboards and sells Coca-Cola, Nike shoes and Lenovo laptops. Liu himself rarely appears in public, but there he is, dressed in the shimmering yellow and red singlet of the Chinese national team. Cameras flicker like fireflies. He rolls his neck and stares up at the masses. He is 6-foot-2, 180 pounds, and runs the 110-meter hurdles. His greatest hits flash across the screens: his 2006 world record of 12.88 seconds; his dominating victory at the 2004 Olympics in Athens. 
 No real drama is expected. Liu is racing against other Asian hurdlers, mostly Chinese, whom he has thrashed for years. In August, he'll run on this same track in the Olympics and the pressure will be very different.
 The hurdlers drop into position as the announcer asks for quiet.
 Screams erupt at the crack of the starter's gun, and just as quickly dissolve into gasps of disbelief: Liu jumped early. Another false start means disqualification. A nervous murmur ripples through the stadium. Could he actually lose? Like everyone else, I came to watch him perform on his big stage, if not yet at his big moment. One false start has brought the obvious revelation: there are no meaningless track meets for Liu Xiang.
 Liu waggles his arms and bounces lightly on his toes, like a boxer before the bell. The hurdlers crouch down again and wait for the pistol.
 Liu's legs slice over the hurdles as crisply as scissors, and his victory comes so easily that he seems to slow at the finish. The race takes just 13.18 seconds. Fifty thousand people, sated, begin to leave, oblivious to the fact that other events are still underway. They got what they came for. 
 They have no idea that Liu will soon lose his world record, lose his rhythm and lose his front-runner status. One thing he will not lose is the pressure. He is still expected to fulfill the expectations of one-fifth of humanity. 
 In the United States, people might ask: Liu who? His name only occasionally flitters across the pages of sports sections.
 But in China, he is often considered more popular than even Yao Ming, the basketball superstar whose N.B.A. success is a point of immense national pride. A recent poll asked people their wishes for the Beijing Games. Staging a successful Olympics ranked fourth; watching Liu Xiang win gold ranked first.
 ''He's huge,'' says P. T. Black, a partner at Jigsaw International, a market-research firm in Shanghai. ''He is so far and away the No. 1 sports celebrity in the country. What he has done is something people here in China didn't know they could do.''
 What Liu proved was something many Chinese still cannot quite believe: that they can compete with anyone in sports that demand speed and power. Many Chinese assumed they were genetically disadvantaged in such sports; Liu showed them that China was a nation of more than just Ping-Pong players. Hurdling has no real tradition in China, and few Chinese follow the sport for its aesthetic values or understand the excruciatingly narrow margin between winning and losing. But in Athens, they watched Liu demolish the world's best hurdlers and tie what was then a world record of 12.91 seconds. Overjoyed and triumphant, he draped a Chinese flag over his shoulders for a victory lap. At a news conference, Liu admitted out loud what his countrymen were thinking.
 ''It is kind of a miracle,'' he said. ''It is unbelievable -- a Chinese, an Asian, has won this event. It is a proud moment not only for China but for Asia and all people who share the same yellow skin color.''
 He then made a pronouncement: ''Please pay attention to Chinese track and field. I think we Chinese can unleash a yellow tornado on the world.'' Yao carried the Chinese flag during the opening ceremony in Athens, but it went to Liu for the closing. Flying back to Beijing with the Chinese team, Yao handed him another baton. ''Yao Ming said, 'Finally, you can understand the pressure on me,' '' Liu recalled.
 At 25, Liu's appealing blend of humility and swagger has made him a sensation in China, not to mention rich. His love of country is real, but anyone who has watched him compete can see that he is not merely performing for the glory of the Communist Party. When he set the world record of 12.88 seconds at a 2006 meet in Lausanne, Switzerland, he jumped atop the digital clock and happily posed for photos, smiling, punching the air and kicking his legs. His success and good looks have made him a breakthrough athlete in China's emerging world of sports marketing, and he has become an idol for a new, more individualistic generation in China. Young men want to be him; young women want to marry him. Endorsements pushed Liu's 2007 earnings to more than $23 million, according to a survey by Forbes. His sponsors are already competing for his time once his race is over in Beijing. Parties are planned. Ad campaigns are waiting to be unveiled. All it will take is victory.
 ''He represents national pride,'' says Jimmy Qin, sports marketing director for Coca-Cola in China. ''We want to celebrate that.''
 Liu's rock-star status makes him an anomaly in the Chinese sports system. Olympic glory is rarely individual glory in China. In the seven years since Beijing was awarded the Games, the ruling Communist Party has spent billions so that the official state sports program, overseen by the General Administration of Sport, can produce more athletes and win more medals, especially gold, than ever before. China is no different than the United States and Russia in placing so much national prestige on winning medals, but the difference is that China has focused its entire sports apparatus on Olympic gold.
 At the 2000 Sydney Olympics, China finished third in gold medals with 28, its most ever. But within this success, officials also saw a telling disparity: 21 of those medals came in table tennis, diving, badminton, weight lifting and gymnastics. China struggled in other sports, especially in swimming; other water sports like rowing; and track and field. At the time, these events offered 119 potential gold medals, yet China won only 1 in Sydney. Thus was born Project 119: a government program that has poured money into these sports in pursuit of a larger share of those medals (the total is now 122). New training centers were built. Foreign coaches were hired for water polo, synchronized swimming, canoeing and rowing, as well as for other events like field hockey, fencing, basketball and cycling.
 The program bore fruit in Athens, where China won 32 gold medals, second only to the United States. But the real focus has been 2008. The Communist Party not only wants to capture the most gold medals in Beijing but also show the outside world a rising, modern China. That public relations agenda has taken a hit in a year that has seen Tibetan riots, epic floods, angry protests at the Olympic torch relay and a catastrophic earthquake. But when the Games open on August 8, Beijing still hopes the same basic message will resonate: Look at what three decades of economic reforms have done! Look at this new China, led by the Communist Party!
 The dazzling Olympic venues are eye candy in this pitch and make it easy to forget that the sports machine is one of the least reformed institutions in China. Coaches begin identifying prospects during regular visits to local elementary schools. Consider that in just one city -- Suqian, in Jiangsu Province -- every government district was asked to assess children from the ages of 8 to 13 and select candidates for sports schools. In turn, the teenagers who prove good enough then matriculate to bigger government training academies. Their sports are often chosen for them through systematic examination of their physique and an eye toward what's most likely to produce Olympic medals, especially gold. They are employees of the state who train long hours, are paid little and are often discarded if they fail to reach elite status.
 As much as Liu Xiang appears to transcend the system, it created him and it still controls him. I was on a train earlier this year, returning to Beijing from central China. It was the overnight local, loaded with migrant workers returning to the city after their annual visit home for the Lunar New Year. These were the people building the Olympic city. When we finally stepped onto the platform and into the bleary morning light of the Beijing West station, there was Liu, his smiling image selling us yogurt from an overhead advertisement.
 At the time, as I stood surrounded by workers for whom the Olympics would bring some pride but little reward, he seemed as incongruous as some unidentified flying object from another world. But as the Games approached, I began to realize that Liu's world was not so disconnected from the people on my train. Like them, he had a job to do for the Olympics. He, too, was a cog in the machine. 
 Two days after his win The National Stadium, I met with Liu at a media event titled ''A Day in the Life With
 Olympic champion Liu Xiang.'' I was among a small group of journalists invited to observe him inside the Training Bureau of the General Administration of Sport. We had low expectations for an ''Oprah'' moment, but Liu rarely speaks to the foreign press, so we felt fortunate to get any access at all. We watched him do situps, curl dumbbells and do some light running during a workout with other Chinese hurdlers at a dingy indoor track. He played table tennis, shot pool and bowled with teammates. This qualified as the ''leisure time'' segment of his day and proved that watching hurdlers bowl is certainly less entertaining than watching bowlers hurdle.
 Liu is the undisputed centerpiece of China's entire Olympic team. Yet the uninformed observer watching him work out might not guess at his status. He showed no outward signs of being a diva; he did the same drills as everyone else. His teammate Shi Dongpeng, who finished fifth at the World Championships, is taller and seemingly more impressive physically. But Shi is considered only a borderline medal threat. Project 119 has made China more competitive but not so much that traditional track powers like the United States are feeling overly threatened. In Beijing, China will field more than 70 athletes for track-and-field events, compared with 52 in Athens. But Chinese coaches feel they have a good chance for medals in only a handful of events: the women's hammer throw, the women's marathon, race walking and possibly one of the women's relays. The winds blowing the yellow tornado still mostly come from Liu.
 After his workout, Liu walked over and sat down. An interpreter sat beside him. Liu is studying English and understands enough to chat with his rivals, if not enough for a full-blown media day. The subject of pressure came up immediately. ''Four years ago, I was not so popular,'' he said. ''People didn't recognize me when I was on the street. Now everyone recognizes me, so I can't be on the street. Being famous is sometimes a good thing, but sometimes not very good.''
 Given a choice, he said, he would prefer ''to be ordinary and not so famous.''
 He usually trains in his hometown, Shanghai, the country's financial capital. But earlier this year he joined the hurdling team in Beijing to prepare for the Games. Liu is exempted from having to run qualifying times to ensure his place on the team. His preparations are deemed more important. He is tended by a special team of coaches, doctors and gofers. They train him, feed him, supervise him and drive him around. In Beijing, he shares a two-bedroom apartment in an athletic dormitory with his hurdling coach, Sun Haiping.
 Liu was friendly, a bit shy, but accustomed to questioners. He confessed that the concept of a girlfriend interests him but that he has never had time for one. ''I hope after the Olympics,'' he said, smiling, not needing to mention that he is the most eligible bachelor in China. (His father keeps signed photographs to hand out as gifts to the young women who travel from all over China to the family's Shanghai apartment.)
 When in Shanghai, Liu's life is far different from the glamorous one portrayed in his billboard ads and television commercials. Government sports officials negotiate his endorsements and, according to his father, take half the earnings. His parents oversee Liu's half of the pot, and if he indulges himself, he does so inconspicuously. He bought an apartment in his old Shanghai neighborhood, but renovations are still underway. His family lives in a suburban apartment provided by the government as a reward for his Athens gold medal. Liu lives with them on weekends and spends his weekdays inside Shanghai's top sports training center. On weekends, his coach is not far away; he owns an apartment in the same complex. They can literally see each other through their windows. 
 ''I go home, and I go to the training facility,'' Liu said, describing his routine. ''Two places. And those two places are the safest for me.'' 
 In China, he is almost always accompanied by coaches or officials. Though he endorses Cadillac, he cannot drive -- he has not been permitted to get a license. His isolation is a product of the sports system but also a symptom of his celebrity. In Shanghai, at least five daily newspapers and one television station have assigned reporters to cover him. He likes eating Japanese food and shopping, at least when he is abroad. He has a taste for designer clothes. ''He is always very happy to travel abroad,'' says Feng Shuyong, the amiable head coach of China's track team. ''There are fewer people who know him. He can go shopping. He likes shopping.''
 He loves to sing karaoke. (''I know all the Chinese songs,'' he told us.) But when he goes out, his coaches sneak him into a club and later shuttle him out a back door. He keeps in touch with friends by e-mail or text message. ''He wants to be normal,'' Feng says. ''Sometimes, I think: He is a young man. He wants to do many things, but he cannot. I feel sorry for him. Many times he is alone in his room, chatting on the Internet with friends.
 ''But at the same time,'' Feng adds, ''I appreciate that he has targeted the Olympic Games. For this target, he has sacrificed so many things.''
 Our day in Liu Xiang's life ended with one telling observation: he was favoring his right hamstring. The next day he flew to New York for the Reebok Grand Prix, posing for photographs atop the Empire State Building, but he dropped out of the meet, citing the injury. He then traveled to Eugene, Ore., to run in the Prefontaine Classic, the biggest track meet in the United States and an event sponsored by Nike. He said the hamstring was fine. But he was disqualified on a false start. 
 Then, on June 12, Dayron Robles exploded out of the blocks at the Golden Spike competition in the Czech Republic. Robles, a Cuban, is considered the most physically gifted hurdler alive, exactly the type of athlete amplified in the Chinese imagination. He ripped over the hurdles in a shocking 12.87 seconds. Liu's world record was history. Robles was still breathing heavily, exultant, when a television reporter pressed forward with a question: Can you beat Liu Xiang in the Olympics? ''We will see,'' was Robles's answer.
 In Beijing, Liu was gracious and offered congratulations. He and Robles are friendly rivals. But only 57 days remained until the Olympics, and Liu Xiang was suddenly an underdog. 
 Twelve men have run the 110-meter hurdles in less than 13 seconds. Only two, Liu and Robles, have dipped below 12.90 seconds.
 The hurdles lack the sex appeal of the 100-meter dash, but the event is a premier Olympic attraction because of its combination of speed, power and grace -- and its potential for calamity.
 The best hurdlers need about 38 steps to leave the blocks, navigate 10 hurdles and reach the finish line 110 meters away. To watch a race is to suffer the illusion that you are seeing men running at top speed while jumping at the same time. You are really seeing them attempt to solve a complex physics equation without crashing.
 ''In hurdles, you never actually get to maximum speed,'' says Curtis Frye, one of the top hurdling coaches in the United States. ''Every time you get near it, you've got to jump in the air. It's not as much about speed as it is about mechanics.''
 Frye categorizes hurdlers into two groups: blasters and accelerators. Blasters are often shorter and have powerful legs like sprinters. They explode out of the blocks, quickly reaching a high speed, but that speed, if unchecked, can be a handicap if it pushes them too close to a hurdle. Frye says hurdlers must maintain the flattest possible parabola over each hurdle. To do so means mastering a three-step shuffle between each hurdle in order to leap from a perfect takeoff point. Frye notes that taller hurdlers with longer strides sometimes leap too close to a hurdle, a mistake that slows them down.
 At 6-foot-2, Liu is one of the taller elite hurdlers, but he has a reputation for rarely making mistakes once the race is underway. He's an accelerator, Frye says, because he steadily builds speed and maintains his rhythm. As Frye explains, physics dictates that an athlete can create speed between the second and sixth hurdles but that the rest of the race is a contest of survival in which mechanics prevail. Liu's mechanics are considered the best in the world.
 ''Liu Xiang does not make an error,'' Frye says. ''He never beats himself. And the great hurdlers take advantage of other hurdlers' errors. The guy who has the best mechanics and is the most efficient is going to win. That was Allen Johnson for a long time. And then it became Liu Xiang.''
 Johnson, once coached by Frye, is the 1996 Olympic gold medalist and a four-time world outdoor champion. He was one of the prerace favorites in Athens until he stumbled in the second round. At 37, he tried and failed to qualify for Beijing during the United States Olympic trials in July.
 ''He's not superspectacular anywhere,'' Johnson says of Liu. ''The thing that is so great about him is that he doesn't really have a bad part of his race. It's all good. He very rarely makes a mistake that is going to significantly impact his race.''
 But Johnson says technical prowess should not be confused with invulnerability. ''Everybody has a weakness,'' he says. 
 Liu's recent problems in the starting blocks might offer a clue. When I saw him in May, he shrugged off his false start at the National Stadium. But Sun Haiping, his hurdling coach, was more concerned. Sun said they had been tinkering with Liu's start before the race and had shifted his weight two or three centimeters forward in his stance. Sun crouched into position to show how the shift had wrongly placed greater pressure on Liu's fingertips. They scrapped the idea. ''His starting technique is not so steady,'' Sun says. ''We are going to pay more attention to that.''
 Sun knows Liu better than anyone. He has essentially been Liu's guardian since the hurdler was a teenager. Liu grew up in a lower-income district of Shanghai, raised largely by his grandparents while his parents worked. At 9.9 pounds, he was a huge baby by Chinese standards. Athletics came easily to him. His family enrolled him in the district's sports elementary school. Coaches examined his bone structure, his large feet and his long Achilles tendons and concluded that he was a high jumper. He was in fourth grade.
 By age 16, Liu was at the Shanghai No. 2 Sports School, one of the city's top training centers. His high jumping results were good but he had started to plateau. Doctors and coaches examined and tested his bone structure, concluding he would not grow tall enough to be an elite high jumper. This selection process, so Orwellian to Western sensibilities, is not unusual in Chinese sports schools. A system so intensely focused on producing Olympic champions regards X-rays and bone tests as practical tools to help project which kid among thousands might one day become a medalist. 
 Liu had done some hurdling, and so his coaches decided that would be his focus. He began training with his school's B team because he was the youngest member of the program. And though his talent quickly became obvious, he was teased and beaten by older teammates until his family decided to drop athletics and transfer him to a regular school. 
 Sun was coaching the senior team and was not directly responsible for Liu. But now he intervened. In what has become a famous tale in China, Sun lobbied Liu's parents to keep him in the sports program. He promised to help him develop as an athlete and teach him to be a good man. The extended Liu family convened a meeting and voted against returning. But the father, Liu Xuegen, overruled the majority.
 ''I trusted Sun,'' Liu's father says. ''He was a responsible man and a famous coach.''
 Sun promoted Liu to the senior team and oversaw his training. At different times, they lived in the same apartment. Liu would take classes for half a day and train the other half. He quickly demonstrated a competitive fire that no X-ray could reveal. By 18, he was dominating national competitions, and he'd already begun to race abroad against other elite hurdlers. 
 ''When he first went to international competitions, he said foreigners had bigger muscles,'' his father recalls. ''He was fearful.''
 His confidence grew as his performances steadily improved. In July 2002, he broke the world junior record at a major event in Switzerland and then won his Athens gold in 2004. Last year, he won his first world championship. In March, he won the indoor world championship in the 60-meter hurdles. He no longer feared the big-muscled foreigners. Now they worried about him.
 ''He is in people's heads,'' Frye says. ''Even if you don't see him out of the corner of your eye, you know he's there. And you know he is not going to change his rhythm. It causes them to try to go faster. Then they run up on hurdles, and they make mistakes.''
 Pressure: Cathy Freeman understands it. Like Liu, she seemed to carry the hopes of an entire nation.
 When Sydney hosted the 2000 Olympics, Australia placed its smothering expectations on her shoulders as she sought to become the first Aborigine to win an individual Olympic gold medal. She had a private team provide a protective cocoon against what she now calls ''peripherals'': media, sponsors and the crush of expectations.
 ''It's an unnatural existence,'' she told me, speaking by telephone from Melbourne. ''But then when you are in the class of doing something remarkable, what is natural? You become a prisoner to your own success. That's just life. Billie Jean King said pressure is a privilege. I never forgot that.''
 Freeman, 35, is retired and devoting her time to the Catherine Freeman Foundation, which helps aboriginal girls. There are about 20 million people in Australia, and they exulted when Freeman flew around the backstretch and took gold in the 400 meters. But consider that Liu's hometown of Shanghai, alone, has almost 20 million people. ''He is under more pressure than I was,'' Freeman says, laughing. ''I'm glad my career is over.''
 It's true that pressure cannot be quantified; expectations cannot be bundled together and placed on a scale. But it is commonly accepted in China that Liu runs with the weight of the nation on his shoulders. His coaches do not doubt it. Senior government sports officials told them that Liu's past achievements would be meaningless if he does not win in Beijing. 
 When I met Liu in late May, he tried to downplay the expectations. He said this is the ''athletic period'' of his life. ''I have to live even after this period,'' he said. ''I think I have done very well up to now.'' No matter what happens in Beijing, he plans to keep racing and compete in London at the 2012 Olympics. After that, he may retire. ''I don't want to spend all my life on this event,'' he said. ''I would like to do something else, to learn other things.''
 He has admitted to nerves in the past, even as he has overcome them. Moments after he won the world championship, he told reporters that the days before the race had been ''torture.'' Now he stays on script. He says he is preparing for Beijing as if it were just another meet.
 His coach knows otherwise. ''The pressure and expectations are too large,'' Sun says. ''Everyone hopes he can be the Olympic champion again in Beijing. But it is not as easy as the spectators believe. So we are trying our best.'' Then he blushed slightly and smiled. ''Maybe the pressure is greater on me than him.''
 Liu skipped his usual summer races in Europe, preferring to train in Beijing. Freeman says he should concentrate on simple things -- like breathing. ''Honestly,'' she says. But she also offered a perspective made clearer by retirement: expectations came from all directions, but ultimately, she ran for herself, because it was what she enjoyed most. 
 China is not Stalinist Russia. Liu will not be exiled to some gulag if he loses. Liu's China is a mass of contradictions, a weird mix of Socialist sports schools and Starbucks. He is supposed to win for the glory of the Communist Party, and for his corporate sponsors, too. He is living with his coach in a dorm even though he makes eight figures. Pressure is everywhere; coherence is nowhere to be found. 
 But with so much attention on whether Liu will win, or how he copes with the pressure, or even when he'll find a girlfriend, Liu usually ducks the simplest question of all: why does he run?
 In mid-June, I met Liu's father in a hotel lobby in Shanghai and posed that question. He sipped tea and smoked expensive cigarettes. He was a cheerful man whose cellphone kept ringing. I asked about the world record. ''He said he admired Robles's performance and that he has great talent,'' Liu Xuegen said. ''He has said, 'I can't keep the record for a lifetime. This time, he broke my record. Next time, I am confident I can grab his.' ''
 Weeks earlier, I had listened to Liu's careful answers and witnessed his carefully restricted existence inside the sports ministry, and he had not betrayed a hint of brashness. So these comments, even secondhand, startled me. Perhaps I had just become too accustomed to Chinese modesty and deference. What elite athlete isn't fired by ego and a thirst for individual glory? Maybe that is why 1.3 billion people so desperately want him to win. They are navigating the same mass of contradictions. Conformity is still the safest route, but it is rarely the most satisfying.
 Yes, Liu runs for China. But he also runs for himself.
 ''He has said that he didn't want to be great only once,'' his father said. ''He said he wanted to keep being great as long as possible because nobody can be a hero forever.'' .

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAN OF THE (1.3 BILLION) PEOPLE: A billboard featuring Liu xiang in a Beijing subway station. His success and charisma have made him an idol for a more individualistic generation in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.MM52)
PING-PONG'S NOT HIS GAME: Liu in a heat on his way to winning the 2007 World Championships. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GUTTENFELDER/AP PHOTO) (pg.MM55)
 START THEM YOUNG: Chinese boys practice gymnastics at a Beijing sports school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.MM56) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); AIRPORTS (54%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HUNAN, CHINA (90%) CHINA (94%); JAPAN (88%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



59 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating the Olympics, And Rallying for the Host

BYLINE: By APRIL DEMBOSKY

 BODY:
Miao Qu and Lisa Li huddled together on Saturday afternoon on the steps of the State Supreme Court building in Foley Square in Lower Manhattan as the rain poured. They stood arm in arm, clutching Chinese flags and stuffed Beibei and Nini dolls, two of the five official mascots of the Summer Olympics in China. They both wore 2008 Olympic T-shirts and matching grins. 
 ''Our hearts are in Beijing,'' Ms. Li said. ''This is our country, and I love the people.'' 
 Ms. Li and Mr. Qu, both 26 and graduate students at Columbia University, were part of a small crowd that gathered in the downpour on the edge of Chinatown to mark the start of the Olympic Games in Beijing on Friday. 
 Wearing red shirts and toting Chinese flags, the crowd watched Chinese folk dances and listened to songs as they rallied in solidarity with the country from which many of them had emigrated.
 ''I came to support the Olympics and to support our country,'' said Beibei Zhai, 25, sharing a sentiment that was common among the younger people in the crowd. 
 Several university student groups organized contingents to attend the event. They sent out e-mail messages, made phone calls and posted notices in Internet forums before the rally. Some handed out T-shirts, flags and stuffed animals. 
 Yu Fu, 27, a neuroscience graduate student at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island and the leader of a Chinese student association, organized a group to sing ''Beijing Welcomes You,'' a kind of ''We Are the World'' anthem composed for the Olympics. Mr. Fu said his motivations were social and political. 
 ''It's a good thing to gather around, to meet new friends and to promote China,'' he said.
 While Saturday's event drew participants of all ages, Mr. Fu said he believed that the younger generation has taken a more vested interest in China's progress and its world image.
 ''The older generation thinks America is so good,'' he said. ''After they immigrate, they want to stay here and make a life here. For us, we want to go back to China after our education.'' 
 As China's economy has grown, Mr. Fu said, there have been more employment opportunities for those with a desire to return.
 ''I know some older generation immigrants still think China is that undeveloped country, especially people who don't go back very often,'' he said. ''We want to go back and contribute to the improvement.'' 
 Attitudes toward China also are influenced by age, Mr. Fu and others said. Many older immigrants have firsthand memories of the torture and oppression that existed under Mao Zedong's rule. Chinese born after Mao's death in 1976 have experienced economic growth and a loosening of the government's hold on its people. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Qu said there is much that China needs to work on.
 ''There is a human rights issue,'' he said. ''Every country has that problem. We're trying to make progress, but the international community may be pushing China too hard. They should give us more time to solve the problem.'' 
 Unlike other Olympic-related events in the United States, especially the torch relay in San Francisco that drew thousands of protesters, Saturday's rally was peaceful. 
 Some prominent figures in Chinatown stayed away from the event. 
 ''I'm not a sports fan,'' said Justin Yu, president of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association of New York, a social and cultural organization that is politically aligned with Taiwan. 
 Mr. Yu, who sat in his office on Saturday afternoon, checking his e-mail as classical music played in the background, said: ''I respect this event. It makes the community more colorful.''
 Although there is tension between China and Taiwan, Mr. Yu said that supporters of either side are able to work together in New York.
 ''I don't believe there's a division'' here, he said. ''Beijing and Taiwan are too far away. They're not going to clean our streets. They're not going to put more flowers in our parks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With the Olympics six days away, a crowd gathered Saturday to support China. ''Our hearts are in Beijing,'' one woman said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); DANCE (53%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



60 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: The Debate Over Keeping Cool

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
IN his July 29 Science Times article ''10 Things to Scratch From Your Worry List,'' John Tierney urged readers not to waste the summer consumed by guilt about their cars' supposed ''planet-destroying A/C,'' because an Edmunds.com report had concluded that ''the aerodynamic drag from opening the windows cancels out any fuel savings from turning off the air-conditioner.'' 
 Mr. Tierney is on solid ground: Edmunds, a site that offers car-buying guidance, and Consumer Reports did not see much of a fuel-economy impact of either running the air or rolling down the windows in separate 2005 tests. 
 But like many controversies, the windows-vs.-air-conditioning question refuses to die. There are many opinions, some with scientific pedigrees. 
 Having an environmental perspective may affect your thinking here. The online Grist magazine clearly doesn't like auto air-conditioning very much, and Umbra Fisk, a columnist, concludes that ''rolling down windows wins the efficiency contest hands down.
 ''The physical weight of the air-conditioner adds to the drag of the car, and running it takes power from the engine; both reduce your gas mileage,'' she writes. ''So all in all it would be best to not even have A/C in your car.''
 She'd get an argument from the Society of Automotive Engineers, which in a 2004 test was not particularly friendly to the A/C-off crowd, concluding that rolling down the windows can have ''a significant real impact on fuel consumption.'' The size of the effect depends to some extent on temperature, vehicle speed, wind velocity and direction and is relatively larger for lower-drag vehicles like sedans than for S.U.V.'s, the group said. 
 But the Energy Department, in its online fuel economy tips, advises motorists to ''turn off the air-conditioner and roll your windows down'' at slow speeds, when there will be less aerodynamic drag.
 That's the basic message from Slate, too. ''The rule of thumb is to keep the windows down while on city streets, then resort to air-conditioning when you hit the highway,'' said a July 2008 ''Green Lantern'' column. ''Every car has a speed at which rolled-down windows cause so much drag as to decrease fuel economy more than a switched-on A/C. As you might expect, however, that milestone speed varies widely from car to car -- and in some cases, it may be well north of posted speed limits.''
 In fact, driving with windows down at highway speeds costs 9 cents a gallon, or more than $70 a year in a car with a 15-gallon tank that is filled up once a week, warns Dailyfueleconomytip.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY CHRISTIE/THE BAKERSFIELD CALIFORNIAN,VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (77%); SPEED LIMITS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (72%); WRITERS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SAE INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



61 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; EAST VILLAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: The Wind Farmers of East 11th Street

BYLINE: By JOSH WEIL

 BODY:
FIVE years ago this month, the lights of the city that never sleeps winked out. It was the kind of situation that would have been tailor-made for a group of young architects who, in the 70s, took over a five-story tenement that didn't rely on the city's electrical grid. They lived at 519 East 11th Street, and they got their power from the wind. 
 On top of their building, one block north of Tompkins Square Park, stood the first roof-mounted urban windmill in the United States. More than just a tower and turbines, the windmill represented a first step toward urban energy self-sufficiency, toward freedom from electricity costs, and toward a loosening of the energy monopoly. 
 During the energy crisis in 1976, when a radical young architect named Travis Price first came to New York, this windmill was just a vision. Known as the Solar Cowboy, Mr. Price wore a straw cowboy hat and had a passion for renewable power. 
 ''I was going to bring solar energy to the poor,'' said Mr. Price, who is now a practicing architect in Washington. ''And I was going to do it in an urban environment, during a recession, and that was going to be my flame.'' 
 Instead, he found a city ravaged by another kind of fire. ''A building an hour was being burned in New York,'' he said. For a host of complicated reasons, among them rising energy costs, many landlords were abandoning their buildings or worse. Eventually, the city began to repossess the apartment houses and then sell them on favorable terms to neighborhood groups. 
 But Mr. Price, along with David Norris, a Yale architecture student who joined him in his cause, saw a problem: If the new owners simply reoccupied the abandoned buildings, the high energy costs and other factors would drive them out, too. So, along with an M.I.T. architecture student named Chip Tabor, they bought a share in a gutted tenement on East 11th Street and persuaded the neighborhood's working-class, largely Puerto Rican community to help turn the building into a model for energy conservation. They installed extensive insulation and the first rooftop solar panels in Manhattan. 
 ''I mean, what was the next step?'' said Mr. Norris. ''Put up a windmill.''
 Finding and restoring an old farm turbine for the windmill was easy enough, but erecting the windmill, even after all the pieces were carried up to the roof, was another matter. ''How do you lift this 30- or 40-foot tower straight up on the top of a narrow building,'' Mr. Price said, ''and not have it fall down and skewer someone? We had no budget for cranes, so we just got several cases of beer and went all down the street and said, 'Let's have a party.' ''
 Soon they had 40 people on the roof. ''Everybody's drinking,'' Mr. Price said. ''It's a timing issue. You can't get everyone up there unless there's drink, but you can't wait too long or they're too drunk to work.''
 With some pushing and tugging and lifting, the rooftop crowd soon set up the windmill. ''It was absolutely harebrained and hair-raising,'' Mr. Norris said. ''It was in contravention of every known city regulation.''
 But politicians soon flocked to 519 East 11th Street. ''The MacNeil/Lehrer Report'' filmed a show on its roof. Senator Ted Kennedy described the structure as ''the little windmill that could.''
 ''We felt like a rock band,'' Mr. Price recalled. ''We were cooking.'' 
 He would see people doing double-takes, he added. ''And then they would suddenly see it spinning, and there would be this really delightful smile.'' 
 SINCE storing energy produced by the windmill was difficult, the group wired it into the city's power grid. Then, when the building was producing more electricity than it was using, the grid absorbed the overflow.
 Wiring into the power grid was illegal by itself, but when the group demanded that the utility reimburse them for the overflow, Con Ed urged the New York State Energy Commission to force the group to disconnect from the grid. 
 Ramsey Clark, a former attorney general of the United States, came to the group's aid. ''There'd been practically no urban experience like it,'' Mr. Clark said of the windmill hookup, adding that the utility was afraid of the precedent.
 The group won the case. ''The energy commission essentially said to Con Ed, 'You've got to buy their power,' '' Mr. Norris said. ''That was huge.'' 
 But the turbine never worked well enough to provide power for the entire building, which, by 1977 or so, was home to 25 or 30 people. Either wind speeds were too low to generate sufficient power or turbulence from gusts produced a deafening noise from the windmill and caused the building to shake. Moreover, during the major blackout in 1977, unable to get a charge from Con Ed, the windmill provided insufficient power. 
 Still, until 1985, when a blade was blown off during a hurricane, the windmill produced enough power to light communal areas and heat water. For the next two decades or so, its remnants jutted into the sky until, sometime in the last few years, the tower was dismantled. 
 Today, interest in urban wind is growing -- plans are afoot to build a wind farm on Staten Island, for example -- but if another blackout occurs this summer there will be no light glowing on East 11th Street. There will, however, probably be vendors hawking flashlights and batteries, a thought that reminds Mr. Price of the old days.
 ''I think of that hustle,'' he said, ''and think of us as the New Yorkers who hustled the wind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the '70s, activists erected a windmill on a tenement, and scaled it, below right, when they defeated Con Ed in court. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JON NAAR
 D. GORTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1977) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); REPOSSESSION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



62 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: When That Screen Starts to Look Smaller

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q.You enjoy your job and are productive, but as you age, some things you do each day -- like reading e-mail or recalling names and facts -- can be challenging. Is this normal?
 A. Yes. Common changes that occur with aging are weakened vision and hearing, and less physical and mental agility. ''These are not things to be embarrassed about, they are just age-related changes,'' said Robert E. Roush, a gerontologist and the director of the Texas Consortium of Geriatric Education Centers at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.
 Q. Even with reading glasses, it's a struggle to see the computer screen clearly. What can you do to make it easier to read? 
 A. Healthy older workers often have trouble reading print on a computer screen, said Tara A. Cortes, president of Lighthouse International in Manhattan, a nonprofit group dedicated to fighting vision loss. An eye specialist can prescribe special lenses for computer work, and increasing the font size on documents and e-mail will help. ''Software like MAGic and ZoomText magnify the text and images on a screen, change background colors, make contrasts sharper, even read text aloud,'' she said.
 Use the largest monitor possible and increase your lighting, Dr. Roush said. ''By the time you are in your 50s or 60s, you need 30 percent more light to see clearly than when you were younger, so get a desk lamp or a floor lamp,'' he said. 
 Q. Hearing people on the phone or during meetings, especially in restaurants, is difficult. What can you do -- other than asking them to speak louder?
 A. ''A combination of overall hearing loss and decreased ability to filter out background noise is often a problem as we get older,'' said Janet B. Reid, co-founder and managing partner of Global Lead, a management consulting firm in Cincinnati that specializes in generational diversity. Consult with a specialist to see if you need a hearing aid. If you don't, but are still having trouble hearing, suggest that you meet with clients in their office or in a conference room and have meals brought in, Ms. Reid said. 
 To help with hearing on the phone, including your cellphone, consider switching to an amplified phone or attach an amplifier to your current phone. The Jitterbug cellphone from GreatCall Inc. is made specifically for older people and has louder-than-average speakers and an ear cushion to reduce background noise.
 Q. Occasionally, you are at a loss for names, facts and dates that were once at your fingertips. It's also becoming difficult to focus on several tasks at once. What's happening?
 A. After age 40, recall ability decreases, said Vincent Fortanasce, clinical professor of neurology at the University of Southern California and author of ''The Anti-Alzheimer's Prescription.'' ''As people age, their mental agility, which is the ability to multitask and the speed of thought processes, and their mental capacity, which is the overall store of knowledge, decreases,'' he said. 
 You can increase your mental agility by exercising the brain. ''You don't need special games; you just need to keep trying different things, like eating with your left hand instead of your right, taking the stairs instead of the elevator or memorizing all the phone extensions in the office,'' Dr. Fortanasce said.
 Q.Sitting in your chair and working on the computer for hours makes your back and neck ache, and your knees and fingers stiff. How can you remedy that?
 A. Make your workstation as comfortable as possible. Get a desk chair that is designed for lumbar support and that also has arms, so you can support yourself getting into and out of the chair, said Marion Somers, a geriatric care consultant in New York. 
 Put a stool under your desk so you can stretch your legs, and attach a wireless headset to your telephone, which will allow you to walk around your office or cubicle while talking, Ms. Reid said. An ergonomic keyboard and padded wrist rest can make typing easier. 
 Q. Although working as you grow older presents certain challenges, don't some things improve with age?
 A. Absolutely. Because older workers have been through many business cycles, economic ups and downs don't cause them to panic, Ms. Reid said, and they make more reasoned decisions than less experienced colleagues. They also tend to have more confidence on the job, relate better to colleagues and clients, and are likely to enjoy their work more, Ms. Somers said. 
 A mature brain has the advantage of experience, Dr. Fortanasce said. The wisdom that comes with age enhances our decision-making abilities and social skills in the workplace. 
 Q.You have to talk to your boss about your changing needs. Should you worry that you will be seen as high-maintenance or feeble? 
 A. Most employers are very open to accommodating requests from employees with specific needs, said Deborah Russell, director of workforce issues at AARP. Inform your boss that the changes will make you more productive at work, she said. 
 And rather than placing the problem at your boss's feet, have a solution in mind so you can explain what you need and why, she said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISION AIDS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (77%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (77%); GERONTOLOGY (77%); DEAFNESS (77%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); GERIATRICS (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); HEARING AIDS (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: GREATCALL INC (82%); LIGHTHOUSE INTERNATIONAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517911 TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



63 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: H.I.V. STUDY FINDS RATE 40% HIGHER THAN ESTIMATED

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The United States has significantly underreported the number of new H.I.V. infections occurring nationally each year, with a study released here on Saturday showing that the annual infection rate is 40 percent higher than previously estimated.
 The study, conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, found that 56,300 people became newly infected with H.I.V in 2006, compared with the 40,000 figure the agency has cited as the recent annual incidence of the disease. 
 The findings confirm that H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, has its greatest effect among gay and bisexual men of all races (53 percent of all new infections) and among African-American men and women.
 The new figures are likely to strongly influence a number of decisions about efforts to control the epidemic, said the disease centers' director, Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, and other AIDS experts. Timely data about trends in H.I.V. transmission, they said, is essential for planning and evaluating prevention efforts and the money spent on them. 
 Dr. Gerberding said the new findings were ''unacceptable,'' adding that new efforts must be made to lower the infection rates. ''We are not effectively reaching men who have sex with men and African-Americans to lower their risk,'' she said.
 Dr. Kevin A. Fenton, who directs H.I.V. prevention efforts at the agency, said, ''C.D.C.'s new incidence estimates reveal that the H.I.V. epidemic is and has been worse than previously known.'' 
 A separate historical trend analysis published as part of the study suggests that the number of new infections was probably never as low as the earlier estimate of 40,000 and that it has been roughly stable overall since the late 1990s.
 C.D.C. officials said the revised figure did not necessarily represent an increase in the number of new infections but reflected the ability of a new testing method to more precisely measure H.I.V. incidence and secure a better understanding of the epidemic.
 Dr. Philip Alcabes, an epidemiologist at Hunter College in Manhattan, raised questions about the validity of the findings. If they are true, Dr. Alcabes said in a statement, the agency has undercounted new H.I.V. infections by about 15,000 per year for about 15 years. ''Therefore, there are roughly 225,000 more people living with H.I.V. in the U.S. than previously suspected,'' he said. ''The previous estimate was 1 million to 1.1 million.''
 A C.D.C. spokeswoman said Dr. Alcabes's estimates were incorrect because the new figures could not be used to calculate the total number of people with H.I.V. The C.D.C. does not know the total number but is expected to determine it later in the year.
 The C.D.C., the federal agency responsible for tracking the AIDS epidemic in the United States, said its new monitoring system provided more precise estimates than were previously possible of new infections in specific populations. Infection rates among blacks were found to be seven times as high as for whites (83.7 per 100,000 people versus 11.5 per 100,000) and almost three times as high as for Hispanics (29.3 per 100,000 people), a group that was also disproportionately affected.
 The C.D.C. has known of the new figures since last October, when the authors completed a manuscript and sent it to the first of three journals. But the agency refused to release the findings until they were published in a peer-reviewed medical journal. The first two journals rejected the authors' request for a fast-track review.
 The paper is being published in the Aug. 6 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. The journal and the disease centers had planned to release it at a news conference on Sunday at the opening of the 17th International AIDS Conference here. But the paper was released on Saturday because the embargo was broken. A number of leading health experts have criticized the agency for not releasing the information earlier. On Nov. 21, C.D.C. officials told AIDS advocacy groups and reporters that the data would be released soon.
 In an editorial on June 21, The Lancet, an internationally prestigious journal published in London, severely criticized the disease centers for failing to release the information and said, ''U.S. efforts to prevent H.I.V. have failed dismally.''
 Dr. Gerberding, in defending the decision not to release the data earlier, said: ''This paper has been scrutinized by some of the best statisticians in the country and is much better now than when we started this process. It was so complicated that even I, who has some expertise in this area, could not stand by it without making sure we had gone through the review process.''
 She added, ''This is one of those examples where getting the external review process to really scrutinize the paper, pick it apart, build it back up, has in my opinion fundamentally improved it.''
 The delay, however, has also fueled criticism that the Bush administration, which has earned plaudits for spending tens of billions to fight AIDS in a number of highly affected countries, has not done enough to fight the disease at home.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was critical of the administration. ''H.I.V. prevention has been underfunded and too often hindered by politics and ideology,'' Mr. Waxman said in a statement released Saturday.
 He said the administration had reduced domestic spending against H.I.V. ''Since fiscal year 2002, when adjusted for inflation, C.D.C.'s prevention budget has actually shrunk by 19 percent. The president has recently requested decreases in funding for H.I.V. prevention at C.D.C.''
 Mr. Waxman said he would soon hold hearings on why health officials had had ''less and less money to actually get these programs to the communities that need them.''
 Dr. Alcabes disagreed with critics who contend that the new numbers point to a failure of United States policy on AIDS, saying his conclusion was that ''it looks like prevention campaigns make even less difference than anyone thought.''
 ''H.I.V. incidence did not decline as much from the 1980s to the 1990s as we believed,'' he said, ''despite the dramatic increase in condom promotion and so-called prevention education.''
 The C.D.C. said the findings confirmed sharp declines in the number of new H.I.V. infections each year, from a peak of about 130,000 in the mid-1980s to a low of roughly 50,000 in the early 1990s. But the findings also indicate that the number of new infections increased in the late 1990s but has since remained relatively stable, with estimates of 55,000 to 58,500 in the three most recent time periods analyzed.
 Dr. Gerberding said: ''If there is any good news here, it is hard to report it, but there is a little bit in the sense that while incidence rates are certainly too high, they are stable. That is important because a stable number of new infections in a world that has got more and more people with H.I.V. and people with AIDS living in it suggests that we are keeping up with that pressure for transmission.''
 The revised figures are based on a new laboratory test that can distinguish between recent and long-standing H.I.V. infection, as well as on statistical measures and extrapolations.
 The test is done in the laboratory on left-over serum from the standard H.I.V. test after it shows that a person is infected. The Food and Drug Administration has approved the test, known as BED.
 Dr. Gerberding said that an earlier version of the new test was too crude to do the same kind of study earlier this decade. Despite the improvements in the test,she said, it is ''not perfect yet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page headline in some copies on Sunday about a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on the rate of new H.I.V. infections occurring in the United States each year misstated its finding. The study found that the rate was 40 percent higher than had been estimated; the estimate was not 40 percent too low. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); VIRUSES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (58%)

PERSON: JULIE LOUISE GERBERDING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



64 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Swarms of Stinging Tentacles Offer Hint of Oceans' Decline

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain 

 BODY:
Blue patrol boats crisscross the swimming areas of beaches here with their huge nets skimming the water's surface. The yellow flags that urge caution and the red flags that prohibit swimming because of risky currents are sometimes topped now with blue ones warning of a new danger: swarms of jellyfish.
 In a period of hours during a day a couple of weeks ago, 300 people on Barcelona's bustling beaches were treated for stings, and 11 were taken to hospitals. 
 From Spain to New York, to Australia, Japan and Hawaii, jellyfish are becoming more numerous and more widespread, and they are showing up in places where they have rarely been seen before, scientists say. The faceless marauders are stinging children blithely bathing on summer vacations, forcing beaches to close and clogging fishing nets. 
 But while jellyfish invasions are a nuisance to tourists and a hardship to fishermen, for scientists they are a source of more profound alarm, a signal of the declining health of the world's oceans. 
 ''These jellyfish near shore are a message the sea is sending us saying, 'Look how badly you are treating me,' '' said Dr. Josep-Maria Gili, a leading jellyfish expert, who has studied them at the Institute of Marine Sciences of the Spanish National Research Council in Barcelona for more than 20 years. 
 The explosion of jellyfish populations, scientists say, reflects a combination of severe overfishing of natural predators, like tuna, sharks and swordfish; rising sea temperatures caused in part by global warming; and pollution that has depleted oxygen levels in coastal shallows. 
 These problems are pronounced in the Mediterranean, a sea bounded by more than a dozen countries that rely on it for business and pleasure. Left unchecked in the Mediterranean and elsewhere, these problems could make the swarms of jellyfish menacing coastlines a grim vision of seas to come.
 ''The problem on the beach is a social problem,'' said Dr. Gili, who talks with admiration of the ''beauty'' of the globular jellyfish. ''We need to take care of it for our tourism industry. But the big problem is not on the beach. It's what's happening in the seas.''
 Jellyfish, relatives of the sea anemone and coral that for the most part are relatively harmless, in fact are the cockroaches of the open waters, the ultimate maritime survivors who thrive in damaged environments, and that is what they are doing. 
 Within the past year, there have been beach closings because of jellyfish swarms on the Cote d'Azur in France, the Great Barrier Reef of Australia, and at Waikiki and Virginia Beach in the United States. 
 In Australia, more than 30,000 people were treated for stings last year, double the number in 2005. The rare but deadly Irukandji jellyfish is expanding its range in Australia's warming waters, marine scientists say. 
 While no good global database exists on jellyfish populations, the increasing reports from around the world have convinced scientists that the trend is real, serious and climate-related, although they caution that jellyfish populations in any one place undergo year-to-year variation. 
 ''Human-caused stresses, including global warming and overfishing, are encouraging jellyfish surpluses in many tourist destinations and productive fisheries,'' according to the National Science Foundation, which is issuing a report on the phenomenon this fall and lists as problem areas Australia, the Gulf of Mexico, Hawaii, the Black Sea, Namibia, Britain, the Mediterranean, the Sea of Japan and the Yangtze estuary.
 In Barcelona, one of Spain's most vibrant tourist destinations, city officials and the Catalan Water Agency have started fighting back, trying desperately to ensure that it is safe for swimmers to go back in the water. 
 Each morning, with the help of Dr. Gili's team, boats monitor offshore jellyfish swarms, winds and currents to see if beaches are threatened and if closings are needed. They also check if jellyfish collection in the waters near the beaches is needed. Nearly 100 boats stand ready to help in an emergency, said Xavier Duran of the water agency. The constant squeal of Dr. Gili's cellphone reflected his de facto role as Spain's jellyfish control and command center. Calls came from all over. 
 Officials in Santander and the Basque country were concerned about frequent sightings this year on the Atlantic coast of the Portuguese man-of-war, a sometimes lethal warm-water species not previously seen regularly in those regions. 
 Farther south, a fishing boat from the Murcia region called to report an off-shore swarm of Pelagia noctiluca -- an iridescent purplish jellyfish that issues a nasty sting -- more than a mile long. A chef, presumably trying to find some advantage in the declining oceans, wanted to know if the local species were safe to eat if cooked. Much is unknown about the jellyfish, and Dr. Gili was unsure.
 In previous decades there were jellyfish problems for only a couple of days every few years; now the threat of jellyfish is a daily headache for local officials and is featured on the evening news. ''In the past few years the dynamic has changed completely -- the temperature is a little warmer,'' Dr. Gili said. 
 Though the stuff of horror B- movies, jellyfish are hardly aggressors. They float haplessly with the currents. They discharge their venom automatically when they bump into something warm -- a human body, for example -- from poison-containing stingers on mantles, arms or long, threadlike tendrils, which can grow to be yards long. 
 Some, like the Portuguese man-of-war or the giant box jellyfish, can be deadly on contact. Pelagia noctiluca, common in the Mediterranean, delivers a painful sting producing a wound that lasts weeks, months or years, depending on the person and the amount of contact. 
 In the Mediterranean, overfishing of both large and small fish has left jellyfish with little competition for plankton, their food, and fewer predators. Unlike in Asia, where some jellyfish are eaten by people, here they have no economic or epicurean value. 
 The warmer seas and drier climate caused by global warming work to the jellyfish's advantage, since nearly all jellyfish breed better and faster in warmer waters, according to Dr. Jennifer Purcell, a jellyfish expert at the Shannon Point Marine Center of Western Washington University. 
 Global warming has also reduced rainfall in temperate zones, researchers say, allowing the jellyfish to better approach the beaches. Rain runoff from land would normally slightly decrease the salinity of coastal waters, ''creating a natural barrier that keeps the jellies from the coast,'' Dr. Gili said. 
 Then there is pollution, which reduces oxygen levels and visibility in coastal waters. While other fish die in or avoid waters with low oxygen levels, many jellyfish can thrive in them. And while most fish have to see to catch their food, jellyfish, which filter food passively from the water, can dine in total darkness, according to Dr. Purcell's research. 
 Residents in Barcelona have forged a prickly coexistence with their new neighbors. 
 Last month, Mirela Gomez, 8, ran out of the water crying with her first jellyfish sting, clutching a leg that had suddenly become painful and itchy. Her grandparents rushed her to a nearby Red Cross stand. ''I'm a little afraid to go back in the water,'' she said, displaying a row of angry red welts on her shin. 
 Francisco Antonio Padros, a 77-year-old fisherman, swore mightily as he unloaded his catch one morning last weekend, pulling off dozens of jellyfish clinging to his nets and tossing them onto a dock. Removing a few shrimp, he said his nets were often ''filled with more jellyfish than fish.'' 
 By the end of the exercise his calloused hands were bright red and swollen to twice their normal size. ''Right now I can't tell if I have hands or not -- they hurt, they're numb, they itch,'' he said.
 Dr. Santiago Nogue, head of the toxicology unit at the largest hospital here, said that although 90 percent of stings healed in a week or two, many people's still hurt and itched for months. He said he was now seeing 20 patients a year whose symptoms did not respond to any treatment at all, sometimes requiring surgery to remove the affected area. 
 The sea, however, has long been central to life in Barcelona, and that is unlikely to change. Recently when the beaches were closed, children on a breakwater collected jellyfish in a bucket. The next day, Antonio Lopez, a diver, emerged from the water. ''There are more every year -- we saw hundreds offshore today,'' he said. ''You just have to learn how to handle the stings.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a proliferation of jellyfish around the world this summer erroneously included a location in Virginia on a list of beaches closed because of jellyfish swarms. Virginia Beach has not been closed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANI CARDONA) (pg.A1)
Jellyfish at the Institute of Marine Sciences in Barcelona, Spain. Jellyfish have recently been turning up in places where they once were rarely seen, scientists say.
 Fishermen clean the area where they have been removing jellyfish from their nets, a task that can lead to stings and aching hands. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BEACHES (90%); FISHES (90%); SWIMMING (90%); SPORTS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); OCEANS (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); BIOLOGY (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); TOURISM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (94%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (53%) SPAIN (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



65 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Why China Has the Torch

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
''One World, One Dream,'' is the official motto of the Beijing Olympics that open Friday, but the world has become considerably more complicated since the International Olympic Committee awarded the 2008 Summer Games to China seven years ago.
 That was long before China's crackdown on Tibet this spring, before its support for the government of Sudan became an international issue and before air pollution became so threatening that the Ethiopian world-record holder in the marathon thought it better to run a shorter distance to protect his lungs.
 It was also before the events of last week, when China restricted Internet access for reporters covering the Games (only to lift some restrictions following an uproar from the news media) and accused American lawmakers of ''odious conduct'' for making an issue of its human rights record.
 The I.O.C. was well aware of the risks when it awarded the Summer Games to Beijing in 2001. But committee members believed in the inherent power of the Games -- that they could foster change by focusing world attention on China, just as the 1988 Summer Games in South Korea helped advance that country's transition to democracy. 
 Now the question looming as China prepares for the opening ceremonies is whether the committee made the right bet or took too lightly the possibility that protests or unforeseen events could divide rather than unite the nations whose athletes are gathering in Beijing.
 Seven years ago, the prevailing attitude within the I.O.C. was that the world's most populous nation deserved to host the world's largest sporting event. China, after all, had acted with restraint after losing by two votes to Sydney, Australia, to host the 2000 Summer Games, even when the deciding votes turned out to have essentially been bought. 
 Speaking in 2001 about the political question, Francois Carrard, then the I.O.C.'s director general, said: ''We are totally aware there is one issue on the table, and that is human rights. Either you say because of some serious human rights issues, we close the door, deliver a vote that is regarded as a sanction and hope things evolve better. The other way is to bet on openness. We are taking the bet that we will see many changes.''
 Parsing the impact of the seven-year buildup is difficult. Even before its selection for the Olympics, China was, gradually, becoming more open for ordinary people. Yet, today, rights to free speech and assembly remain sharply restricted, ethnic minorities are repressed, the Communist Party dominates, and, in a report last week, Amnesty International said progress on human rights had been limited.
 In some other ways, the bet has already paid off. Perhaps no other Olympics has been so intensely anticipated. China provides a shiny new wrapping on a package damaged by scandal, doping, the disappearance of Cold War rivalries and diminished public interest. ''The Games are going to Beijing because it's a show; the spectacle lives on and needs new and exciting places,'' said Kevin Wamsley, a former director of the International Center for Olympic Studies at the University of Western Ontario.
 Another wish might be fulfilled -- that giving China a home-field advantage would blunt the political and sporting dominance that the United States gained with the fall of the Soviet Union.
 ''We need China to act as a check on the U.S.,'' Ivan Slavkov, then an I.O.C. member from Bulgaria, said in 2001. ''The U.S. is the only superpower. It dominates everything, including the Olympics and the medal tables.''
 As the Games approach, though, the Olympic committee faces criticism -- from without and within -- for relying too much on chance and not enough on leverage in trying to hold Chinese leaders to their amorphous statements about change.
 Jacques Rogge, the Belgian surgeon who is president of the I.O.C., has given wildly divergent responses to the human rights issue, saying that he was engaging in ''silent diplomacy,'' before switching tactics under pressure and publicly reminding the Chinese authorities that they pledged to use the Olympics ''to advance the social agenda of China, including human rights.'' No one would claim that he possesses the diplomatic skills of his predecessor, Juan Antonio Samaranch. Clearly, Dr. Rogge has been ill at ease in defining the I.O.C. as both a political lobby and a sports organization. 
 The Olympic committee did not sufficiently use its influence in setting markers for the Chinese to achieve on some issues, especially press freedoms during the Games, said Dick Pound, a committee member from Montreal, who stressed that he was speaking in general and not specifically about Dr. Rogge, whom he opposed in 2001 for the presidency of the organization. 
 ''You can't say, 'You've got to free Tibet or embrace Falun Gong,' '' Mr. Pound said. ''And I'm not convinced that the way to get China to respond positively is to splash headlines in the Western press. But certainly some things are not so sensitive that they can't even be discussed. We probably should have said, 'Here are some minimum things we do need.' ''
 It was also a mistake, Mr. Pound said, to hold an international torch relay, which resulted in protests on the issue of Tibet. ''We should have seen that coming a mile away,'' he said.
 Even a more forceful I.O.C., however, would have had only a limited impact in persuading the Chinese to improve their record on human rights, many experts contend. The Olympics generally don't undermine governments. Historically, strong regimes have used the Games to foment nationalism and become stronger, the most infamous example being Hitler and the 1936 Summer Games in Berlin. Intense media scrutiny ebbs when the Games end. And corporate sponsors are loathe to criticize the host country for fear of risking developing markets, especially one as lucrative as China's. 
 ''From the very beginning, the Olympics were exploited by the ruling classes of the nations in which they were held,'' David Wallechinsky, an Olympic historian, wrote in ''The Complete Book of the Olympics.'' I.O.C. delegates ''support nationalism and they support the ruling elites of the various nations of the world, no matter if they are Communist or capitalist.''
 Last week, Mr. Wallechinsky was quoted by The Associated Press as saying of the Beijing Games that ''there is so much money being made, the I.O.C. has turned a blind eye.'' 
 Other Olympic historians see more salutary potential in placing the Games in China.
 One frequently cited example is South Korea. The country's military dictatorship agreed to sweeping democratic changes a year before hosting the 1988 Summer Games in a decision forced by street protests, United States pressure, concern about the South Korean economy and fear that a crackdown would jeopardize the Olympics. 
 The I.O.C. can also claim a role in ending apartheid by banning South Africa from the Games from 1964 to 1992. The ban was the longest boycott of that country by the international community, furthering its isolation. It ended only after South Africa agreed to abolish apartheid and integrate the nation's sports federations.
 ''The I.O.C. members I know most closely were never so naive to think that China would be Korea all over again,'' said John MacAloon, an Olympic historian at the University of Chicago. ''What they are counting on is that 20,000 reporters wandering around, and China's experience having hosted the world, would perhaps lead the central authorities to realize they can afford greater tolerance and discourse without descending into chaos.''
 Given thathope, the I.O.C. would almost certainly choose Beijing again if it had the chance at a do-over.
 ''It's a risk worth taking,'' Mr. Pound said. ''The Games will be well delivered. You hope good will come from it. I don't think any closed country that has hosted the Olympic Games has been the same thereafter. It can't be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE AIR: With the Olympic Games set to begin in Beijing on Friday, concerns remain over the air quality. Pollution is among the issues weighing over these Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR FRAILE/REUTERS) (pg.WK1)
 AT LAST: The Chinese delegation celebrates being awarded the Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER MORIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AMNESTY (60%); AIR POLLUTION (56%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); SUDAN (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



66 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Trade Pact Collapse

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
Over the last two decades, China has managed to turn the forces of globalization into the most successful antipoverty project the world has ever seen. So how does one explain the fact that when the latest round of global trade negotiations blew up for good last week, ending seven years of talks to lower tariffs and free up trade around the world, it was China with a hand on the detonator?
 The answer has a lot to do with how the world -- and China in particular -- has changed, and a lot to do with how the Chinese see the world that's coming. In that world, countries like China and India will have much more clout at the bargaining table because they have much greater economic power than in the past.
 It is not that the Chinese think the great era of globalization is over. Far from it. The glistening Beijing of today was built on dollars, yen and Euros earned around the world, and now being lent back to the United States. 
 But the era in which free trade is organized around rules set in the West -- with developing nations following along -- definitely appears over, and few are mourning its demise. Even in America, where for years free trade advocates assumed their own country would be the biggest winner, advocates of the system are on the defensive.
 Only eight years after Bill Clinton left the White House talking about how free trade played to America's every strength -- particularly its knack for innovation -- Senator Barack Obama has been trying to win back the White House for the Democrats by talking about renegotiating Clinton's trade deals, starting with Nafta. 
 The system is being rethought, as well, in China and India and other countries that spent the 1990s trying to become integrated into the global trading system by accepting the West's rules. They applied to join the World Trade Organization, using its mandates to speed up reforms at home and pump out cheap exports. But now they are done with that phase.
 When the Chinese finally took the so-called Doha round of trade talks off of life support last week, teaming up with India to say they would not stop protecting farmers in order to get tariffs reduced on their expanding industrial exports, it was no surprise.
 This wasn't about tariff rates. It was about a fundamental shift in power -- sophisticated manufacturing capacity, know-how and capital -- that the United States, emerging from its own preoccupation with two wars, is just beginning to appreciate. ''This doesn't mean the breakdown of globalization, the end of trade, or back into some pre-World War II kind of protectionism,'' said Adam Segal, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who studies China. ''The Chinese just feel that they don't have to put up with people lecturing to them anymore about how to manage their economy.''
 Especially Americans.
 On the surface, the immediate cause of death for the trade deal that expired last week would seem to be blunt-force trauma inflicted by India, whose government could not abide further opening of agricultural markets. There were other apparent causes, too. No one wanted to strike a deal with an outgoing American president. And the Chinese, whose economy is already more open than that of many nations, sided with India. To the Chinese, everything is about stability, and China's impoverished farmers, the country's leadership seemed to fear, are restive enough these days. 
 But to Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative in the Clinton administration, there was something else as well: ''The model of this kind of 'global round' is simply no longer viable. They are irrelevant. You have trade surging around the world -- in financial services, information technology, telecommunications -- and everything gets held up for years because you are arguing about farm products.'' 
 Ms. Barshefsky favors a very different approach: the signing up of a limited number of big players in deals that are specific to the most important industries. 
 In the 1990s, when it was tried, this approach appealed to some of the most ambitious emerging economies. But for a correspondent who lived in Asia in the '80s and '90s, covering its economic rise, a recent trip back to China was a revelation about how dramatically economic power itself has shifted. 
 Until Japan's economy drove off a cliff, there was a running argument in Asia about whether it would be wiser to follow the ''Japan model'' -- with its megacorporations, jobs for life, state control of strategic industries -- or the ''American model'' of largely unfettered markets.
 When Japan was on the rise, American governors would come to inspect Toyota City and study ''just in time'' manufacturing to increase efficiency; when America was at its peak in the late 1990s, the world beat a path to its venture capitalists. 
 There is no single ''China model'' to running a mega-economy. Instead, it is a blend. From the Europeans and the Japanese, the Chinese have borrowed the concept of protecting essential industries. So the state is striking exclusive oil deals around Africa, keeping a loose but steely hand over media outlets, and cracking down -- even executing a few people, when needed -- to respond to scandals involving tainted food or defective goods. 
 But the Chinese realized quickly that Japan's downfall came in part because it never created a culture of innovation. The Chinese know they do not want to be assembling low-cost goods for long -- and so they are experimenting with companies like Lenovo. Lenovo, a sophisticated computed manufacturer, is also a Chinese corporate sponsor of the Olympics. Its design won the competition for the Olympic torch -- an intended symbol of China's rise to the rank of a near superpower that, during its relay around the world, also came to signify Chinese repression in Tibet and beyond. 
 Lenovo makes ThinkPad laptop computers, a business it acquired by purchasing I.B.M.'s entire personal computer operations two and a half years ago. So perhaps its no surprise that the torch, which curves upward into an ethereal cloud, has the distinctive feel of a sleek laptop. 
 The laboratory that produced the torch has also produced a new series of lightweight, stylish laptops that were designed by a team of young, highly internationalized Chinese. 
 But when I asked them what they thought about the fact that their torch had become the object not only of pride for China, but of protest against it, a member of the design team stopped and said: ''We don't talk about politics much. We've got too much to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HIGHER TECH: A worker performs tests at an optical fiber factory in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZHOU CHAO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (71%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



67 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play Magazine; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: MIND THE (EVER-SHRINKING MEDAL) GAP

BYLINE: BY CHARLES WILSON

 BODY:
After a 32-year hiatus from the Summer Olympics, China's delegation to the 1984 Games in Los Angeles announced its presence with authority, winning 32 medals, the fourth-highest total among nations competing that year (the Soviet Union led a boycott by 14 countries) but a hefty 142 medals fewer than the United States. Though they lost ground four years later with a lowly 11th-place showing, the Chinese have steadily gained on their American rivals since then. Their effort culminated in 2004, when they collected more total medals than every nation but one -- falling 39 short of the United States -- and narrowed the gap significantly in the gold-medal count: 32 to the Americans' 36. If China doesn't claim top bragging rights this summer, it won't be for lack of trying. Here's how the country has set out to become the dominant Olympic power: 
 PICK YOUR SPOTS 
 In 2002, China's sports ministry divvied up sports according to medal prospects, rating them from strong to weak. The government then zeroed in on medal-rich sports filed under a category labeled ''potential'' that encompassed events in which Chinese athletes had typically underachieved. China launched Project 119, named for the number of additional gold medals it might contend for if it lavished more attention on those sports. On the wish list: swimming, other water sports, track and field. 
 GO HEADHUNTING
 Borrowing a move from the nation's economic resurgence, China dived headlong into imports and exports. In recent years, the nation has stacked its roster with elite coaches from overseas: the former Soviet rowing coach Igor Grinko, the Spaniard Juan Jane Giralt in water polo and the Japanese synchronized-swimming legend Masayo Imura, to name a few. The talent pipeline flows out of China, too: in 2005, four top Chinese sprinting prospects were sent to the United States for five months to work with the former champion Michael Johnson. ''Silver? It means nothing here,'' Grinko recently told a New York Times reporter. ''You might as well finish last.''
 PLAY THE NUMBERS
 China chooses its Olympic lineup by grooming armies of potential medalists, starting long before puberty. In 2004, for instance, some 400,000 students were enrolled in 3,000 state-run sports schools, according to a 2005 study in the International Journal of the History of Sport, where they began rigorous training as early as age 6. From there begins a massive sifting process: about one out of every eight students who enter sports school graduates to a provincial team; about a third of those eventually make a national team; about one-fifth of the national-team athletes become Olympians-in-training; and about one in eight of those actually make the final cut for the Summer Games. The harsh math: Out of every 900 preteen prospects, 899 will never don an Olympic uniform. 
 STAY CLEAN -- MAYBE
 China's rapid rise has prompted inevitable speculation about doping, not entirely unfounded. Just before the 2000 Summer Games, the nation withdrew 40 of its athletes and officials, citing suspect blood tests. In 1998, one of its female swimmers was caught entering Australia for the World Championships with enough human-growth hormone for herself and all her teammates. The newly established China Anti-Doping Agency has promised rigorous oversight. In June, China banned for life one of its top swimmers. And in the last two Summer Olympics, not one member of a Chinese team has failed a blood test. 
 CHARLES WILSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WATER SPORTS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); RUNNING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); ROWING (73%); WATER POLO (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (68%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



68 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Premium Required? Not Necessarily

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
AT today's prices, it's understandable that drivers accustomed to filling their gas tanks with premium would be looking for ways to ease the financial pain. 
 Some relief may be as close as their next fill-up. Switching from premium-grade to regular unleaded can save several dollars on each tankful, given an average price difference of about 30 cents a gallon, according to end-of-July figures compiled by AAA. 
 While using gasoline that carried a lower octane rating than the engine required was once a sure path to disaster, that is no longer the case. Nearly all automobiles sold in the United States since the 1990s will happily run on regular-grade 87-octane gasoline without causing engine damage, a benefit of the electronic controls that now manage all engine functions. 
 The octane number posted on the pump is a measure of a gasoline blend's resistance to a condition called knocking. The knocking sound -- a rattling noise made by an engine under load, familiar to drivers of older cars -- is a result of out-of-control combustion, the mixture of air and fuel burning erratically. The explosion rings the metal of the engine block like a bell.
 The higher the octane rating, the more temperature and pressure the gasoline can withstand before it ignites on its own, rather than when it is set off by the spark plug. An engine that calls for premium gas typically has a higher compression ratio -- it squeezes the air and fuel mixture to higher pressures -- which can improve both fuel economy and power output. But such an engine requires the higher octane rating to run properly. 
 Before the switch to fuel injection and computerized controls, engines were subject to damage from prolonged knocking. But today's engine management systems incorporate electronic knock sensors, which detect the condition and adjust the ignition to stop the problem. As a result, it is almost impossible to hurt a current engine by using 87-octane fuel, industry experts say. 
 ''Modern engines prevent the damage from happening before it starts,'' said Patrick Kelly, a fuels analyst with the American Petroleum Institute. ''It wouldn't impact fuel economy. And it wouldn't impact the emissions. What it would impact is the performance.'' 
 Of course, owners who do not heed the automakers' recommendations may face consequences -- the potential voiding of warranties, for instance. But for the most part, manufacturers' fuel recommendations include some wiggle room.
 Porsche, for example, acknowledges that any of its modern production cars can be run on regular fuel without the risk of damage. 
 A spokesman for Porsche North America, Tony Fouladpour, added a caveat. ''If you want the car to perform at its maximum capability, the best choice would not be 87,'' he said. ''But we do not forbid it.''
 Specifying premium fuel lets a car manufacturer squeeze out more horsepower. BMW, for example, recommends that all the cars it sells in the United States use premium fuel, but they will run on regular. 
 ''There generally isn't any harm done to the engine by using lower-octane fuel,'' said a BMW spokesman, Thomas Plucinsky. ''Because our engines do have very good forms of knock sensing and are able to deal with lower-octane fuels, you will not have any drivability issues. You will, however, lose some of the performance.''
 How much of a loss? Some indication can be found in the peak horsepower numbers Hyundai recently released for its new Genesis sedan. On premium, the 4.6-liter V-8 engine is rated at 375 horsepower. On 87-octane regular, it is 368. 
 That seven-horsepower difference -- less than 2 percent -- seems a small penalty for saving 30 cents a gallon, especially when you can regain that performance simply by filling up with premium. 
 Does using lower-octane fuel reduce mileage or increase emissions, as some drivers believe? Not according to the Environmental Protection Agency. ''E.P.A. fuels engineers say that there isn't a meaningful difference between regular and premium gasoline,'' said Dale Kemery, a spokesman for the agency.
 Still, the warning from some automakers can give an owner pause at the pump. The manual for the Smart Fortwo repeats the warning issued for other vehicles sold by Mercedes-Benz: ''To maintain the engine's durability and performance, premium unleaded gasoline must be used.''
 But even those stern words may have some room for interpretation. Dave Schembri, president of Smart USA, told John Schwartz, a reporter who was writing for this section's blog about his experiences in buying a Smart, that he should not worry. 
 ''You could use regular gas -- there's no damage to the car,'' Mr. Schembri said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POINT SPREAD: For premium-grade gas, prices to match. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



69 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; TEMPERED TRAVEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: On Vacation, Close to Home

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
THESE are the sounds of summer 2008.
 ''Last year we took a cruise,'' said Michelle Young, 33, of Shirley, lounging on a towel with her three young children at Wildwood State Park beach in Wading River, about 20 miles from her home. ''This year we're not doing anything.
 ''We thought about going to Hershey Park, but even to do that now is ....'' she trailed off. ''Day trips.''
 That same afternoon, Dawn Connolly, 29, a teacher, and her family were 30 miles from their Matawan, N.J., home, buying food on the Point Pleasant Beach boardwalk. ''We're not taking any vacations this year -- just day trips,'' she said. ''Between the price of airfare and gas, it's just too expensive.'' 
 Earlier that week, Claire L'Heureux, 48, a medical technician, headed with her husband and three teenage children toward Mystic Seaport, about an hour's drive from their home in Wallingford, Conn. ''Usually we rent a house on the Cape or something,'' Ms. L'Heureux said. ''Not this year. We're having a 'staycation,' is what they're calling it this year.''
 ''Staycation'' is the refrain this summer, as economic conditions appear to be keeping more people close to home. While some resorts and seasonal businesses could benefit from consumers' choosing to forgo long-distance travel, for many people in the region, summer travel decisions involve more subtle choices than simply whether to stay home or go away. Because people are shaving costs in many ways, some business owners are worried about whether the all-important summer numbers will work in their favor, especially as they head into August, traditionally the busiest summer travel month.
 ''We're in uncharted waters -- there's no question about it,'' said R. Moke McGowan, president of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''If anyone says they can draw on experience from the gas lines of the 1970s or post-Katrina or post-9/11, he is engaged in wishful thinking.
 ''Everybody is looking at their crystal balls hard and unknowingly.''
 Many of the local and state tourism bureaus, including Nassau County's, are directing marketing campaigns this summer at people who are staying home. They are shrinking their target radius to about 300 miles -- a tank of gas.
 Many destination sites, as well as railroads and ferries, are offering discount packages and combination tickets, including giveaways like gas cards. Connecticut, which offers a comprehensive package of discounts for residents, is calling it ''Staycation.''
 In Westchester County, the catch words and phrases are ''backyard'' and ''so close to home.'' 
 More than halfway through the season, though, little data has been released to quantify how people are spending their summer. 
 People catering to local vacationers report that weather remains the biggest factor. A rainy June, for instance, reduced the number of visitors to Long Island's state-run beaches.
 In dozens of interviews, business owners, hotel managers and rental agents from around the region said that vacationers this summer seemed to be traveling less far and doing an unprecedented amount of last-minute booking. They appear to be staying for shorter periods, looking for deals and discounts, and taking efficiency rooms to cut costs by eating in. Several restaurant owners say business is lighter, with customers opting for less expensive dishes and skipping extras like dessert and wine.
 In Westchester, officials said that they had seen an attendance spike at county pools, beaches, parks and golf courses, and at the county-owned Playland in Rye. They attributed it largely to people spending their time off near home. Historic Hudson Valley, a network of tourist sites, typically relies more on fall visitors, but attendance is up slightly this summer. 
 Regional attractions like Lake Compounce in Bristol, Conn., and Splish Splash water park in Riverhead report that season passes are up. But they say souvenir and food purchases are off, as at other tourist destinations. 
 ''I think what the problem is is the last $10,'' said Peter Glankoff, senior vice president for marketing and public affairs at Mystic Aquarium, the most popular noncasino attraction in Connecticut. The aquarium gets about 750,000 visitors a year -- about 70 percent of them in summer.
 ''The last $10 of discretionary income that people have to spend for a weekend getaway or a same-day getaway, they're spending it on gas and they're not spending it on something else,'' Mr. Glankoff said.
 At the aquarium, Denise Taylor, 61, of Manorville shepherded five relatives visiting from France on the last day of a three-day trip. ''We're not going anywhere other than this this summer, because it's just too expensive,'' she said, adding that also meant buying no extras, like T-shirts.
 ''Not for us,'' she said. ''But they are. They're going back fully dressed.''
 Perhaps as a result of higher gas prices and general economic concerns, there is more interest around the region in camping, whether in a recreational vehicle or a tent. Campgrounds in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey report being packed. Advance bookings at state campgrounds on Long Island are up 7.5 percent. People are also staying longer at individual sites instead of going to multiple locations.
 Nate Adelman, who owns Odetah, a private campground in Bozrah, Conn., said its waiting list for seasonal spaces is up to 300. Normally, he said, it's 10 to 20. In-state campers, usually 82 percent of his business, this year account for 98 percent, he said.
 Lisette Rodrigues, 38, of East Hampton, Conn.; and Ana Lebron, 43, and Anne Marie Wintenburg, 38, both of Middletown -- friends who work in public school systems -- said they wouldn't dream of missing their annual camping trip to Odetah with their kids, but without their husbands. The rest of the summer, however, is subject to change.
 Ms. Rodrigues said she still planned to be on the family boat, but with fewer, longer trips anchored offshore. ''That way we're only out once and back once,'' she said.
 Ms. Lebron usually makes a summer visit to family in Costa Rica. ''I just canceled it -- economy,'' she said. As for what she'll do instead, she pointed at Ms. Rodrigues and said, ''Go to her boat.'' 
 Ms. Wintenburg said, ''We're doing our normal summer.'' For her family, that means traveling and hiking in the Pennsylvania mountains.
 But she noted, ''I just got rid of my car because it's a gas guzzler.''
 In interviews on the North Fork on a recent afternoon, shaving costs was a recurring theme. At Palmer Vineyards in Riverhead, the business manager, Kathy Lemorzellec, said more local residents have been visiting. Tim Wilson, 51, of New Rochelle, who said he was in the investment business, and his wife, Mee, 42, were enjoying part of a day trip with her parents, sitting on a deck overlooking the fields. The Wilsons went to Italy recently and plan to go to Switzerland, but said that they were cutting back because of the weak dollar.
 Brit and Ed Frankoski of Huntington were starting their summer holiday in the tasting room on the way home from a business trip to Massachusetts. The rest of the holiday will take them to a resort in Ocean City, Md., paid for by points accumulated on a credit card. Otherwise, Ms. Frankoski, 50, said, ''we would not be spending the money.''
 Relaxing in chairs at Wildwood State Park, the Engelhardts of Long Beach -- Karen, 51, a legal secretary, and Michael, 49, a Con Edison worker -- said they had just returned from Cancun. 
 ''We deserve it,'' Ms. Engelhardt said. ''We work hard, and I don't want to give that up. I'd rather cut back in other ways. We like shopping, so I've been trying to cut down on that. We don't eat out as much as we used to.''
 Nearby, Tammy Sambo, 42, of East Islip, sat on a boulder in the water watching her children and several friends play on a two-day birthday camping trip. ''This is pretty much it -- day trips,'' Ms. Sambo said
 They have already gone to Manhattan to visit museums and plan a trip to Montauk. ''Last year we went to Puerto Rico,'' Ms. Sambo said.
 In Greenport, a retail-heavy waterside stop for travelers crossing between the forks, Lydia Abatelli has weathered various economic conditions in the 30 years she has owned Lydia's Antiques and Stained Glass. This year, she said, the foot traffic is heavy, with lots of people making the trip from Nassau County -- but not necessarily buying.
 ''They are cutting back,'' Ms. Abatelli said. ''They're being careful.''
 Not holding back are foreign tourists, happy to exploit the weak dollar. Tourism officials in the region are actively vying for their business to blunt any domestic downturn.
 In New Jersey, Jeanne De Young of the Monmouth County Department of Economic Development and Tourism is one of those officials.
 Her data on requests for tourism information show that as of June 30, international requests are up 23 percent over last year for the same time period. In-state requests are up more than 12 percent, Ms. De Young said, and out-of-state requests are down 7 percent.
 She can't say if it represents a trend, because her department does not track who acts on those requests. But many in the tourist trade are banking that before the summer ends, people will go somewhere -- as Steven Polizzi already has.
 Mr. Polizzi, 43, a pool maintenance company owner from Oakland, N.J., who was with his family on the Point Pleasant Beach boardwalk, said he had gone on a cruise and his children had gone camping.
 ''It is what it is,'' Mr. Polizzi said of the economy. ''What are you going to do? Hide in the basement?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WITHIN SIGHT: John Eells of Pleasant Valley, in Dutchess County, taking in the scene from his family's recreational vehicle campsite at Hither Hills State Park in Montauk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEARBY ATTRACTIONS: Counterclockwise from left: the beach and amusements at Playland in Rye
picnicking at Rye Town Park
visitors at Mystic Aquarium in Connecticut
and, from left, Tammy Sambo with her daughters, Rachel, 11, and Sarah Burns, 13, at Wildwood State Park in Wading River.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC TOURISM (91%); STATE PARKS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (88%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); AIR FARES (68%); TOURISM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



70 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: As Hall of Famers Reunite, an Insult to a Future One

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
As the N.F.L. celebrates Hall of Fame weekend, a future Hall of Fame quarterback, Brett Favre, is being told by his team that he can't leave the plantation: that he won't be released, that he won't be traded to a rival, that he will be traded only for a king's ransom. 
 This is not the way to treat Brett Favre. This is not conduct worthy of a franchise like Green Bay, certainly not on a weekend when players who have given so much to the game are being honored. 
 We are approaching the point in this fiasco that Ted Thompson, the Packers' general manager, and Mark Murphy, the team's president, should feel ashamed of themselves, followed closely by Commissioner Roger Goodell. 
 The greatest insult was the Packers' offer of a reported $20 million to Favre to stay retired, the idea behind the offer being that this was about money. Favre's career was about performance; compensation was a byproduct of performance.
 When you listen to Hall of Fame speeches in any sport, inductees don't talk about the amount of money they made in their career. They talk about the joy of competing at the highest level and of having their talent recognized.
 That the president of a team would offer a player of Favre's stature money to stay away is a fireable offense. 
 Favre should reject the Packers' offer. If he accepts it, his legacy will be more damaged than if he plays next season and the team goes 8-8.
 The bizarre drama of this offer, now going into its second week, is taking some of the luster off Hall of Fame festivities, where old, aching warriors welcome new members into the fold. 
 None of them have ever seen a spectacle like this: a player of Favre's stature being told he is not wanted by the franchise he piloted to glory.
 Willie Lanier, the Hall of Fame middle linebacker, said he was flabbergasted. 
 ''There has not been anybody with that kind of high profile who's played that many games, been small-town America, had all the records, has not been injured and ended up one game away from a Super Bowl,'' Lanier said Friday by telephone. 
 ''You'd think that would cause someone to say, 'Boy, if we got that close, maybe if the stars align right, who knows?' ''
 During the last few weeks, the national news media have conjectured about the best new home for Favre. Oddly, considering his stature, there really hasn't been a fit. The reason is that Green Bay is the only fit for Favre -- and not as the Packers' house boy. Green Bay is home, not Tampa Bay or New York or Carolina. Favre's home is in Green Bay, and everyone, including Aaron Rodgers, the Packers' new quarterback, knows it. In fact, if he is the leader the Packers think he is, Rodgers should prevail upon management to let Favre come back home.
 The hopeful assumption is that Goodell will collar Green Bay executives this weekend in Canton, Ohio, persuade them to let go of ego and do what's best for the game: admit their mistake and welcome Favre back to training camp with open arms. And pull Rodgers aside, extend his contract and ask him to let the franchise buy a little more time. 
 The N.F.L. released a statement explaining why it has taken so long to act on the Favre reinstatement letter:
 ''The Packers and Brett Favre are continuing their discussions. The commissioner preferred to let those discussions continue rather than act on the reinstatement petition today.''
 There have been ferocious debates about Favre that in many ways go beyond football. In a fragile economy in which jobs are being lost, there is a poignancy in watching someone who has given so much not be allowed a change of heart about retirement. Sports should accommodate this sort of change of heart.
 But the Green Bay Packers have threatened, and they have ignored. Now the club is pleading: Please, Brett. Pretty please. The Packers are willing to pay him to be the invisible man. They don't want Favre in Minnesota, and they don't want him in Chicago. They want Favre to be part of the Packer brand. 
 Packers Coach Mike McCarthy said that a personal-services contract, which would involve promotional work for the team, was first proposed to Favre when he retired in March. This would appear that the offer was not a last-ditch attempt to pay him to stay away from training camp. But it sounds like hush money.
 Favre has insisted all along that this is not about money, but about a mixture of honor and glory and the love of the game. 
 You can't fault Favre if he takes the money, but hopefully, he will tell Thompson and Murphy to keep their millions. He wants to play football. 
 On Hall of Fame weekend, the Packers want to turn Brett Favre into a $20 million greeter.
 The league is bigger, if not better, than this. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brett Favre has been offered a reported $20 million to stay retired and do promotional work for the Green Bay Packers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



71 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: They'll Take Manhattan, in Cash

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
NEGIN FARSAD, a filmmaker and comedian who lives in the East Village, recalled a time not long ago when European friends would visit New York to see her, and not, she said, to use her apartment as a ''temporary locker for their shopping bags.'' 
 Ms. Farsad, 32, recently escorted two friends from London on the inevitable Europeans-clean-out-the-Apple-store shopping excursion, where they bought a MacBook Pro for nearly $3,000, plus hundreds of dollars worth of extra memory (why not?), and continued on a spree that included East Village boutiques and Bloomingdale's downtown. During the evenings, the couple -- both of whom work in television production back home -- dined at downtown restaurants and partied at a chic bars, without concern as to cost. 
 ''I remember the next morning, my friend looked in her wallet and said, 'Oh, apparently I spent $165 buying three rounds of shots for everybody,' '' Ms. Farsad recalled. 
 ''Back home they're just run-of-the-mill cubicle people,'' Ms. Farsad added, ''but here, they're like three parts Kimora Simmons and two parts Oasis, circa 1995.'' 
 This summer, New York is awash with visitors from abroad, who are expected to top last summer's record number, tourism officials say. Thanks in part to home currencies that are holding strong against the dollar, even middle-class vacationers from Hamburg, Yokohama or Perth can afford to scoop up New York style -- the clothes, the hot restaurants, the nightclubs -- at bargain prices.
 But for New Yorkers trapped on the other side of the currency imbalance, it's easy to feel ambivalent about the invasion. An infusion of foreign money is welcome in a city faced with a wobbly economy and a possible budget gap in the billions. But even some locals who consider themselves cosmopolitan and internationalist confess to feeling envy, not to mention territorialism, in watching a outsiders treat their city like a Wal-Mart of hip. 
 Their party is raging just as the hangover has started to set in for Americans. Frictions do arise -- especially in a summer of looming recession, where many locals do not feel rich enough or secure enough to travel abroad themselves. (And let's not even get into their weeks of summer vacation).
 ''It's Psych 101 -- jealousy,'' said Randi Ungar, 30, an online advertising sales manager who lives on the Upper West Side. ''I'm jealous that I can't go to Italy and buy 12 Prada bags, but they can come here and buy 18 of them.'' 
 Steven Schoenfeld, a 45-year-old investment manager who lives near Lincoln Center, said that he welcomes the influx of visitors, in theory, as a boost to the local economy, but ''sometimes you feel like it's going to become a situation where they stop and take picture: 'Look at that endangered species -- a native New Yorker, with a briefcase, going to work.' '' 
 Polly Blitzer, a former magazine beauty editor who now runs a beauty Web site, said she believes that a turf war is going on this summer between free-spending Europeans and locals over the chic bistros, spas, boutiques and department stores that she, a native New Yorker, used to consider her playground.
 She said the point was driven home to her on a recent trip to Bergdorf Goodman to help her fiance select a pair of shoes to go with his tuxedo for their wedding. 
 Wearing the sort of outfit that usually acts as a siren for department store salespeople -- a Tory Burch shift dress and Jimmy Choo slingback heels -- she instead found herself waiting behind a European couple in sneakers and bike shorts who ''had made such massive purchases that we couldn't get anyone to give us the time of day for our size 11 1/2 Ferragamo party slippers,'' recalled Ms. Blitzer, 32. 
 The Europeans, she said, ''brought over bags and bags of shoes'' while the salesman wrapped their orders and chatted them up about restaurants and travel. ''I didn't want to do the ahem-I'm-sitting-here thing, but we had to sit there for 5 or 10 minutes while these big spenders small-talked.''
 She was always used to first-class service, she said, adding, ''But now, there's an ultra-first.'' 
 Manhattanites without Bergdorf budgets often find themselves working overtime -- figuratively and literally -- to keep up with their visiting friends from Europe or Asia. 
 Jessica S. Le, an executive assistant at an investment banking firm who lives on the Lower East Side, said she recently started moonlighting as a dog-walker, in part to earn extra income she needs to see friends from abroad, who are dining at WD-50 or Suba, or drinking at Thor. 
 These friends from Europe and Asia ''come over and play in New York like it's Candyland,'' she said in an e-mail message. 
 Yes, she is jealous of friends like the one from London, who arrives with empty suitcases, ready to buy her fall wardrobe. But, she added, she tries to keep it in perspective. Last year, she went to Vietnam and enjoyed evenings of fine dining for 10 people at less than $20 a person, where, she said, ''I felt like I was in my own Candyland.'' 
 The number of international travelers who will visit New York in June, July and August is expected to rise by about 118,000 from 3.12 million last summer (that number itself was a record --and an estimated 20-percent jump from 2006), according to forecasts by NYC & Company, the city's tourism and marketing bureau. 
 Meanwhile, the euro has hovered near record highs against the dollar all summer; it is up 22 percent in the last two years, and since 2001, has nearly doubled against the dollar. Over the last five years, the yen is up nearly 12 percent against the dollar, the British pound 23 percent, the Swiss franc nearly 31 percent, the Danish krone 42 percent, the Australian dollar nearly 45 percent.
 Feeling flush, foreign visitors are noticeably more lavish in their spending habits, said some New York merchants and restaurateurs. 
 Richard Thomas, the marketing director of Marquee, the Chelsea nightclub, said he has seen a surge of European clients this summer, and even visitors who appear to be of humbler origins than the usual Gucci-clad jet-setters are now ''willing to play in the arena of bottle service,'' he said, referring to the practice where drinks are purchased only a bottle at a time, for hundreds of dollars or more. 
 These are ''people with more modest incomes, who wouldn't just walk up and say, 'Hey, let me get a table' if they're back home in London, where it's too expensive to go to Boujis,'' Mr. Thomas said, referring to a popular club in that city's Kensington district. ''But in New York, they can get away with it.'' 
 EYTAN SUGARMAN, who is an owner, along with his partners, Trace Ayala and Justin Timberlake, of the restaurant Southern Hospitality on the Upper East Side, said it is not unusual this summer to see foreign tourists order a few different entrees apiece, just to taste, and not finish any of them.
 City officials and business owners welcome such extravagance. Many have hailed New York's wave of tourists as a major factor keeping the city economy afloat during a troubled economic period. 
 At EOS New York, a boutique watch and accessories store in the West Village, the customer base is now about 70 percent international tourist, said the company's owner, Mukul Lalchandani. ''Needless to say, with the bad economy, we could use that extra boost of traffic,'' he said. 
 At Buddakan, the hangar-like pan-Asian restaurant in the meatpacking district, foreign traffic has increased by 20 to 30 percent in the last four months, said the owner, Stephen Starr. 
 ''It's a wonderful thing that in a tough climate economically, you sort of have this insurance policy of foreign money,'' Mr. Starr said. ''And to be honest with you, it's great to be in a restaurant and to hear so many different languages. It adds to the theater of the experience.'' 
 NYC & Company calculated that spending by international tourists rose 20 percent in the first quarter of this year. While that agency does not finish compiling statistics for tourist spending during the summer months until the end of the year, such trends usually hold strong through the warmer months, said Tiffany Townsend, an agency spokeswoman.
 Earlier this decade, it was Americans snapping up bargains on the Champs-Elysees. 
 Marie Monte, 23, a law student from Paris who was vacationing in New York last week, said she felt sorry for today's currency-challenged Americans. ''But I remember,'' she said, ''it was not a very long time ago, it was much more difficult, when the money here was very strong. If you wanted to go to New York on holiday, you didn't know what you would be able to do there.'' While some New Yorkers may wrestle with envy, others admit that the trend has its side benefits, too.
 Sarah Geary, a British-born marketing director for Mulberry, the English fashion company, often finds herself working pro bono for her British friends as tour guide, personal shopper and cartographer (she draws them a map of insider New York cool, starting at Barneys, meandering through the meatpacking district for stops at stores like Scoop and Jeffrey, then ending downtown for dinner at places like Freemans or Socialista). 
 In return, the visitors are unusually willing to pick up the check at the end of the day. ''They will literally say, 'Come meet me for dinner -- and bring some friends!' '' Ms. Geary said. 
 ''That,'' she said, ''is something British people never do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TURF WAR: Polly Blitzer, a New Yorker, says Europeans and locals are competing over the city's bistros and stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY GARY HOVLAND)(ST1 and ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



72 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Night Life Reprogrammed

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
THE crowd pressed forward on Tuesday night to watch the soldering contest as it entered its final stages. A dozen men, gripping hot irons, sweated over circuit boards at M1-5, a TriBeCa bar. 
 Their goal: win a race to assemble a primitive remote control. The prize: a lump of clear resin embedded with flashing blue L.E.D.s.
 Four camera people from three Web video sites circled them. The crowd, a hundred strong, sipped glasses of dark beer and wine. Who would be the first contestant to jump up, point the remote at a television resting on a side table, and turn it off?
 The tension! 
 The contest was the first order of business at IgniteNYC, a techie event series that started in Seattle in 2006. Later that night, there were super-speedy PowerPoint presentations, and, from the laptop and smartphone-bearing legions aligned on a banquette, a barrage of live blogging. IgniteNYC was just one of 12 tech events listed that evening on Garysguide.org, a new Web site that offers a social calendar for ''Tech and New Media Folks'' in New York. In Midtown, there was the screening of a wine documentary followed by a tasting led by Gary Vaynerchuk, the colorful host of Wine Library TV, a video blog.
 Something new is happening in the Silicon Alley night. A decade ago, a typical party for New York techies would be held at a glitzy club to celebrate the start of a Web site. There might be minor celebrities, go-go dancers, an open bar and pricey giveaways all to build brand-awareness, which, it was believed, would somehow, someday, lead to profitability. 
 But when the Internet bubble collapsed, so did the Silicon Alley 1.0 party scene. What remained was more buttoned-down and sedate. Cybersuds, a low-key monthly networking party, started in 1994 at a TriBeCa bar, evolved into a formal technology conference and then around 2003 disappeared.
 Now, young Internet entrepreneurs, some holdouts from the old days and a few members of the city's creative class (and underclass) are engaged in a new type of party, which mashes together Silicon Alley 1.0's camaraderie and optimism, meetup.com's spontaneity and informality, Burning Man's home-brewed creativity, and a technology conference's devotion to unveiling ideas. These days many of the ideas are about producing and delivering video content.
 Like any scene in gestation, a few mini-stars have emerged, appearing nearly every night at one or two events. By promoting their video blogs or online games, they seem to be trying to parlay fame on the scene to fame on the Web. 
 Others attend hoping to meet venture capitalists; some are just attracted to a night life that involves actually talking to creative people doing exciting things, rather than heading out to clubs and bars that beat you into silence with their thundering rhythms. 
 ''Instead of just going out to drink and be bored,'' said Ilana Arazie, whose video blog, Downtown Diary, chronicles her love life, ''you're talking to interesting people who are starting companies and telling great stories.'' 
 At IgniteNYC, after the soldering contest (won by Glen Duncan, an electronics hobbyist who was ecstatic) and a half-hour of drink-refilling and chatting, 16 speakers made PowerPoint presentations. Each was allowed 20 slides that auto-advanced after 15 seconds -- five minutes total -- a modified version of a format pioneered in Japan called ''Pecha Kucha,'' loosely translated as chitchat. 
 Nate Westheimer, the ''entrepreneur in residence'' at a venture capital firm, gave a talk on ''The Charisma Economy: Success in the Age of Authenticity.'' Charles Forman, a founder of a Web gaming company, delivered a cutting analysis of women with a fetish for dating founders of Web companies.
 The dress was informal with men in T-shirts and loose pants and women in the same or in casual summer dresses. A doorman was on hand only to check identification, not to collect a cover charge or to wield a velvet rope. Outside, bicycles were locked to nearby scaffolding. Inside were some of the same people who had attended the previous evening's big event, NY Video 2.0 July Meetup, held at Webster Hall. 
 At that meetup, after a quick mingle and drinks from the cash bar, the crowd of about 200 sat under the disco ball to join a town hall discussion on the future of Web video.
 Participating onstage were, among others, Kathleen Grace and Thom Woodley, the founders of Dinosaur Diorama Productions, which produces entertaining videos distributed on YouTube and elsewhere; Jay Smooth, a disc jockey on WBAI with a video blog about music, Ill Doctrine; and Sarah Austin, the founder of Pop17, a Web site posting her video interviews with tech-world celebrities.
 A debate about what to call the Web video business quickly broke out.
 ''I look at the term 'Internet TV' as the same thing as 'vegetarian chicken,' '' said Mr. Smooth, explaining that Web video is a new art form that should not be compared to the stale stuff flowing from television sets.
 Someone else suggested ''video blogs'' or ''Web shows.'' 
 ''Webcasting!'' said another panelist. Standing near the bar during the discussion was Dina Kaplan, a founder of blip.tv, a distributor of Web shows and the organizer of yet another regular gathering, the Founders Club.
 ''There are different scenes within the scene,'' Ms. Kaplan said. ''This is the video geek content scene, the crowd that used to be text bloggers.'' 
 She said another subscene is ''the uber geek techie crowd,'' which encompasses NYC Resistor, the group that organized the soldering contest with IgniteNYC and opened a workshop in Brooklyn where it is building L.E.D. artworks and microcontrollers. 
 Then there's Burp Castle, Ms. Kaplan said, the East Village bar where video producers frequently gather. ''They'll do a tweetup and say 'Let's go to the castle,' '' Ms. Kaplan added, referring to Twitter, the social-networking service that allows users to send out brief messages -- ''tweets'' -- to large groups of friends via cellphone.
 Ms. Kaplan left the meeting halfway through so she could attend another event, the Glasshouse, a networking party for entrepreneurs at the Soho House in the meatpacking district. 
 While the Glasshouse attendees were generally more seasoned than those at the other techie events, few of them were wistful for the old free-spending days of Silicon Alley 1.0. 
 Before 2000, ''I went to one party where they hired Whoopi Goldberg to come,'' said Annalise Carol, a communications consultant. 
 ''Now the parties are more real,'' Ms. Carol continued. ''They're smaller and full of people who are actually doing substantive things.''
 Since most tech events are free and open to anyone, they offer what so many people still come to New York to find, a rung to begin climbing. 
 An Indian immigrant, Gary Sharma, the founder of Gary's Guide, said he began attending events seven months ago because he wanted to explore the potential for a software start-up company.
 To keep track of the nightly happenings, he assembled a list for himself. Friends saw it and began asking him to e-mail it to them. 
 In February, he put the list online, calling himself the Silicon Alley Reporter. By May, he realized he might want to expand to other cities and changed the name to something less geographically rooted. Gary, like Craig, is a name that might work anywhere. He has begun sister sites in Boston, Washington, Chicago and, two weeks ago, Los Angeles. 
 Now he is a nightly fixture at New York parties, always wearing a bright red tie and one of his four suits left over from his days working as a marketer for a consulting company on Wall Street.
 ''Steve Jobs has his black turtleneck and jeans,'' he said before watching the soldering event at IgniteNYC. ''I have my red tie.''
 Six minutes before the start of the contest, when the other competitors were already in place around a steel table laden with electronic equipment, Mike Lehman, a hacker, rolled in his luggage holding soldering gear. He asked the organizer, Bre Pettis, if it was too late to participate.
 ''No,'' Mr. Pettis, who moved to New York last year, told him. He led Mr. Lehman to an open spot at the table where the newcomer began setting up. ''You're right on time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GEEKS GALORE: IgniteNYC runs tech-theme social events, like this soldering contest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
 ONE WORD: VIDEO Above, venture capitalists and others gathered last week at Webster Hall in Manhattan to discuss the future of Web video. Among the organizers of such events are, at right in the far left photo, Bre Pettis and, center at left, Dina Kaplan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (77%); BEER & ALE (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); WEB SITES (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (61%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); DANCERS (50%); BRANDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



73 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Ty Wilde, Vinayak Tripathi

 BODY:
Elizabeth Ty Wilde, a daughter of Benna B. Wilde and Harold R. Wilde of Naperville, Ill., was married on Saturday to Vinayak Tripathi, the son of Suryakanthi Tripathi and Amitava Tripathi of New Delhi. Pandit Narasimhacharyulu Samudrala, a Hindu priest, officiated at North Central College in Naperville, Ill. Later in the day, also on the campus, Samuel D. L. Picard, a candidate for ordination in the Presbyterian Church, led a ceremony incorporating Quaker, Methodist, Jewish and Buddhist elements. 
 The bride and the bridegroom, both 29, received doctoral degrees in June in economics from Princeton, where they met.
 Dr. Wilde is keeping her name. She is an assistant professor in the health policy and management department at the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University. She graduated from Swarthmore College. 
 The bride's father is the president of North Central College and her mother is the managing director of the Prince Charitable Trusts, a family foundation in Chicago, and the chairwoman of the Donors Forum, an organization in Chicago that provides resources to philanthropies.
 Dr. Tripathi trades bond futures at Highbridge Capital Management, a hedge fund in New York. He graduated from Cornell and received a master's degree in financial mathematics from the University of Chicago. 
 His parents retired last year as officers in the Indian foreign service. The bridegroom's mother was the ambassador to Spain and his father was the ambassador to Switzerland. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); RELIGION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); FUTURES (66%); BOND MARKETS (66%); BONDS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



74 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Korean War's Lost Chapter: South Korea Says U.S. Killed Hundreds of Civilians

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: WOLMI ISLAND, South Korea 

 BODY:
When American troops stormed this island more than half a century ago, it was a hive of Communist trenches and pillboxes. Now it is a park where children play and retirees stroll along a tree-shaded esplanade.
 From a hilltop across a narrow channel, Gen. Douglas MacArthur, memorialized in bronze, appears to gaze down at the beaches of Inchon where his troops splashed ashore in September 1950, changing the course of the Korean War and making him a hero here. 
 In the port below, rows of cars, gleaming in the sun, wait to be shipped around the world -- testimony to South Korea's industrial might and a reminder of which side has triumphed economically since the conflict ended 55 years ago.
 But inside a ragged tent at the entrance of the park, some aging South Koreans gather daily to draw attention to their side of the conflict, a story of carnage not mentioned in South Korea's official histories or textbooks. 
 ''When the napalm hit our village, many people were still sleeping in their homes,'' said Lee Beom-ki, 76. ''Those who survived the flames ran to the tidal flats. We were trying to show the American pilots that we were civilians. But they strafed us, women and children.''
 Village residents say dozens of civilians were killed.
 The attack, though not the civilian casualties, has been corroborated by declassified United States military documents recently reviewed by South Korean investigators. On Sept. 10, 1950, five days before the Inchon landing, according to the documents, 43 American warplanes swarmed over Wolmi, dropping 93 napalm canisters to ''burn out'' its eastern slope in an attempt to clear the way for American troops. 
 The documents and survivors' stories persuaded a South Korean commission investigating long-suppressed allegations of wartime atrocities by Koreans and Americans to rule recently that the attack violated international conventions on war and to ask the country's leaders to seek compensation from the United States. 
 The ruling was one of several by the government's Truth and Reconciliation Commission in recent months that accused the United States military of using indiscriminate force on three separate occasions in 1950 and 1951 as troops struggled against Communists from the North and from China. The commission says at least 228 civilians, and perhaps hundreds more, were killed in the three attacks.
 In one case, the commission said, at least 167 villagers, more than half of them women, were burned to death or asphyxiated in Tanyang, 87 miles southeast of Seoul, when American planes dropped napalm at the entrance of a cave filled with refugees. 
 ''We should not ignore or conceal the deaths of unarmed civilians that resulted not from the mistakes of a few soldiers but from systematic aerial bombing and strafing,'' said Kim Dong-choon, a senior commission official. ''History teaches us that we need an alliance, but that alliance should be based on humanitarian principles.''
 The South Korean government has not disclosed how it plans to follow up on the findings. And Maj. Stewart Upton, a Defense Department spokesman in Washington, said the Pentagon could not comment on the reports pending formal action by the South Korean government.
 Under South Korea's earlier authoritarian and staunchly anti-Communist governments, criticism of American actions in the war was taboo.
 But after investigations showed that American soldiers killed South Korean civilians in air and ground attacks on the hamlet of No Gun Ri in 1950 -- and after the United States acknowledged the deaths but refused to investigate other claims -- a liberal government set up the fact-finding commission in 2005. More than 500 petitions, some describing the same actions, were filed to demand the investigation of allegations of mass killings by American troops, mostly in airstrikes. 
 The recent findings were the commission's first against the United States, and it is unlikely that the commission has the time or resources to investigate many more before it is disbanded, as early as 2010. 
 Separately, the commission has also ruled that the South Korean government summarily executed thousands of political prisoners and killed many unarmed villagers during the war. 
 The Wolmi victims' demands for recognition tap into complicated emotions underlying South Korea's alliance with the United States.
 ''We thank the American troops for saving our country from Communism, for the peace and prosperity we have today,'' said Han In-deuk, chairwoman of a Wolmi advocacy group. ''Does that mean we have to shut up about what happened to our families?''
 The airstrikes came during desperate times for the American forces and for the South Koreans they came to defend.
 The war broke out in June 1950 with a Communist invasion from the north. In September, when the American military planned the landing at Inchon to relieve United Nations forces cornered in the southeastern tip of the peninsula, it decided it first had to neutralize Wolmi, which overlooks the channel that approaches the harbor. 
 ''The mission was to saturate the area so thoroughly with napalm that all installations on that area would be burned,'' Marine pilots said in one of their mission reports on Wolmi that were retrieved by the commission from the National Archives and Records Administration of the United States.
 They also reported that no troops were seen, ''but the flashes observed on the ground indicated the intensity of the fire to be accurate enough to destroy any about.''
 The reports describe strafing on the beach but make no mention of civilian casualties.
 The Inchon landing helped United Nations troops recapture Seoul and drive the North Koreans back. But the tide turned again when China entered the war.
 The other two attacks the commission ruled on, in Tanyang and Sansong, south of Seoul, occurred as Communist forces barreled down the peninsula. As the allies fell back, they were attacked by guerrillas they could not easily distinguish from refugees.
 Fearing enemy infiltration, American troops stopped refugees streaming down the roads and told them to return home or stay in the hills, or risk getting shot by allied troops. On Jan. 14, 1951, the Army's X Corps under Maj. Gen. Edward M. Almond ordered the ''methodical destruction of dwellings and other buildings forward of front lines which are, or susceptible of being, utilized by the enemy for shelter.'' It recommended airstrikes.
 ''Excellent results'' was how American pilots summarized their strikes at Sansong on Jan. 19, 1951.
 The same day, however, one of General Almond's subordinates, Brig. Gen. David G. Barr of the Seventh Infantry Division, wrote to General Almond that ''methodical burning out poor farmers when no enemy is present is against the grain of U.S. soldiers.'' At least 51 villagers, including 16 children, were killed in Sansong, according to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. 
 The attack on Tanyang followed the next day, when, survivors say, American planes dropped napalm near the entrance of the cave where refugees had sought shelter. 
 ''When the napalm hit the entrance, the blast and smoke knocked out kerosene and castor-oil lamps we had in the cave,'' Eom Han-won, then 15, said in an interview. ''It was a pitch-black chaos -- people shouting for each other, stampeding, choking. Some said we should crawl in deeper, covering our faces with wet cloth. Some said we should rush out through the blaze. Those who were not burned to death suffocated.'' 
 Like Mr. Eom's family, most of the people there were refugees who had been turned back at an American roadblock south of Tanyang, survivors said. In the days before the attack, the cave was packed with families. When the American warplanes flew in from the southwest, children were playing outside amid cattle and baggage.
 That day, the Seventh Division's operations logs noted that 13 planes attacked ''enemy troops'' and ''pack animals and cave.'' It reported ''many casualties and got all animals.''
 Mr. Eom, who rushed out of the cave into a hail of machine-gun fire from the planes but survived, said, ''The Americans pushed us back toward the enemy area and then bombed us.'' He said he lost 10 family members.
 Shortly afterward, South Korea's Second Division reported 34 civilians killed and 72 wounded at Sansong, but ''no enemy casualties,'' prompting the American military to open an investigation. The American investigators did not dispute the South Korean report but concluded that the airstrike was ''amply justified.'' They said that Sansong was considered an enemy haven and that its residents had been warned to evacuate.
 The case appeared closed until several years ago, when, in the course of a Korean television reporter's investigation, villagers acquired a copy of the American military's wartime report and read that they had been told to evacuate. They insist, and the commission agreed, that this was not true. They say the village where North Korean troops were sighted was elsewhere and was never bombed.
 Regarding the Wolmi attack, the commission said that while it recognized the need for the landing at Inchon, it could find ''no evidence of efforts to limit civilian casualties.''
 Wolmi survivors said the North Korean officers' housing was about 1,000 feet away from their village. They say the American pilots, whose mission reports noted ''visibility unlimited'' and firing altitudes as low as 100 feet, should not have mistaken villagers, including many women and children, for the enemy.
 They said the American troops later bulldozed their charred village to build a base.
 ''If you say these killings were not deliberate and were mistakes, how can you explain the fact that there were so many of these incidents?'' asked Park Myung-lim, a historian at Yonsei University in Seoul.
 The victims' grievances found an outlet in 2005, when left-leaning civic groups tried to topple the MacArthur statue. But Wolmi survivors said they did not join the protest for fear they might be branded anti-American.
 ''We consider MacArthur a hero to our country, but no one can know the suffering our family endured,'' said Chung Ji-eun, an Inchon cabdriver whose father died at Wolmi. ''Both governments emphasize the alliance, but they never care about people like us who were sacrificed in the name of alliance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korean troops surrendered to American soldiers on Wolmi Island on Sept. 22, 1950. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); BEACHES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); REFUGEES (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); BURN INJURIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



75 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: A Glut Of One-Bedroom Apartments

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
OWNERS of one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan may be surprised if they put their homes up for sale anytime soon.
 Price appreciation for one-bedrooms -- long a bastion for singles and newly married couples who want to stay in Manhattan and live close to work -- is sluggish compared with other types of apartments. 
 Buyers, many of whom are having difficulties getting mortgages, are unwilling or unable to pay the prices sellers still expect. And by one estimate one-bedrooms have been taking nearly three weeks longer to sell than bigger, or smaller, apartments.
 Although the average sale price for a one-bedroom apartment grew by 7 percent in the last year, overall apartment prices in Manhattan jumped by 21 percent -- not including condo sales at the ultra-expensive 15 Central Park West and the Plaza Hotel -- according to Halstead Property. 
 ''If you want to look at what area is experiencing the least amount of growth, it's one-bedrooms,'' said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist who works for Halstead and for Brown Harris Stevens. ''It is the lowest increase of any size category.''
 That is a notable change from the situation a year earlier. From the second quarter of 2006 to the second quarter of 2007, prices for one-bedrooms rose by 10 percent, while overall apartment prices rose by only 7 percent. 
 Now that has changed. One-bedrooms are sitting on the market largely because the buyers most likely to purchase them can't get mortgages. ''Getting financing is very challenging,'' said Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property. ''It can be difficult if the buyer of the one-bedroom is a first-time buyer. Some of the buyers who were able to get financing when the banks were throwing things at them are gone, and the requirements are stiffer.''
 The number of studios available for purchase is not piling up in the same way because there are fewer of them, Ms. Ramirez said. 
 Brokers say that many people who bought their apartments at or near the top of the market and now must sell are often simply trying to avoid losing money on the deal.
 In May 2007, John and Wendy Penn bought a one-bedroom on West 72nd Street for $650,000. The couple, whose main residence is on Long Island, wanted an office and a pied-a-terre in Manhattan to expand their insurance business. 
 They bought the apartment as a long-term investment and quickly completed about $30,000 in renovations, including the restoration of the apartment's prewar details. But when Mr. Penn became an independent insurance agent, he no longer needed space in Manhattan. 
 So in February, the couple put the apartment up for sale, pricing it at $769,000. Three price cuts later, the apartment is listed at $725,000 and still has not sold. 
 Their broker, Danica Cordell-Reeh of Halstead, said that the Penns have the burden of finding a buyer who will pass the co-op board when most buyers' assets have shrunk in value because of Wall Street declines. She has shown the apartment to about three dozen prospects and received three offers. 
 Looking back, the Penns wish they had negotiated more with the first prospect, because the second and third bidders' finances were not solid. Ms. Cordell-Reeh advised them not to accept offers from buyers who might ultimately face rejection from the co-op board.
 The Penns never thought they would have such a hard time. While their apartment is on a less-desirable low floor (the first), it is newly renovated and has a flexible floor plan, giving new owners the ability to change the location of the kitchen and the bathroom if they choose. ''Hopefully, we'll get close to breaking even,'' Mr. Penn said.
 But sellers of one-bedrooms might be even worse off, if not for changes in recent years in the Manhattan apartment mix. In the 1980s, developers built one-bedrooms for a market dominated by professionals and young couples, and investors who planned to rent out their units.
 But by the time the latest construction boom started, the mix of buyers had changed. Developers found that building large apartments for wealthy families was more profitable in many neighborhoods, because more families were willing to pay a premium to stay in the city. 
 On the Upper East Side, the Worldwide Group built only five one-bedrooms in its 77-unit building at 255 East 74th Street, choosing to focus mainly on three- and four-bedrooms. 
 Even around Madison Square Park, a neighborhood that attracts many singles, the Clarett Group included a relatively low number of one-bedrooms in its new building at 11 East 29th Street. Veronica Hackett, the firm's managing partner, said there were only 23 one-bedrooms in the 139-unit building. ''I tend to believe that when people buy, they stretch to buy a two-bedroom instead of a one-bedroom,'' she said.
 But even though developers have not concentrated on building smaller apartments, there are more one-bedrooms on the market now than there have been in at least 20 years, according to Jonathan Miller, chief executive of Miller Samuel Inc., a real estate research company. 
 There are also more one-bedrooms available than apartments of other sizes. As of July 30, there were 3,390 one-bedrooms or sale in Manhattan compared with 3,229 two-bedrooms and 1,063 studios, according to data tracked by StreetEasy.com. 
 Mr. Miller has found that one-bedrooms sit on the market longer than any other size of apartment. He sees ''a drag in demand on one-bedroom units, which is allowing inventory for one-bedrooms to be disproportionate to others.''
 This is a tough time for sellers who are moving for job-related reasons. Rabbi Tom Gardner, who recently accepted a job at a synagogue in Baton Rouge, La., needs to sell his one-bedroom on Riverside Drive at 101st Street. Because he has sublet the apartment before, he cannot do so again under his co-op's rules. 
 He bought the apartment for less than $400,000 in 1998, and last year, he was told he could sell it for $750,000. But by the time he put it on the market at the end of April, he set the asking price at $695,000, based on advice from his broker, Susan Faber of Barak Realty. Since then, the number of similar one-bedrooms for sale in his neighborhood has grown sixfold, Ms. Faber's colleague Antonio del Rosario said.
 After getting few offers, Rabbi Gardner cut the price to $650,000. When a buyer offered him less than $600,000, the rabbi made a counteroffer of $630,000. The buyer said no. 
 Despite the time pressures he faces, Rabbi Gardner is reluctant to yield on what he believes is the inherent strength of the unit he owns. ''I think there's still a certain value to an apartment in a full-service building on the Upper West Side,'' he said.
 Other sellers are even more determined to wait for the price they want. 
 Three years ago, Kenneth Kuo, a concert cellist who owns music schools in Manhattan and in Greenwich and Westport, Conn., and his cousin bought a one-bedroom at 120 Riverside Boulevard at Trump Place, the building where Mr. Kuo lives in a one-bedroom penthouse. They paid about $675,000.
 They have been trying to sell the investment apartment for the last six months, but they are determined not to accept less than $1 million. 
 Mr. Kuo has a list of other sales in his building through the middle of 2007 that indicate the asking price for his apartment is in line with the building's sales history. He also says that last year, he sold another one-bedroom he owned in the building for $790,000 after buying it in 2005 for about $550,000. He thinks he was justified in waiting for a high price. 
 But he was willing to consider a slightly lower bid. ''Even if I could get $999,999, I would be happy,'' he said. ''There are just so many one-bedrooms out there on the Upper West Side.''
 Late last month, he cut the price to $1.015 million. He also listed it for rent at the same time, on the advice of his friend Andy Kim, a broker at Nest Seekers. He had a tenant in a week willing to pay $3,400 a month, and plans to try to sell the apartment again in a few years. 
 For buyers, the growing inventory of one-bedrooms is enabling them to negotiate good deals. 
 When April Hartstein shopped for a new one-bedroom condo in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in April, she asked brokers whether developers would negotiate. By the time Ms. Hartstein found her ideal condo at the Jacksonia at 131-145 Jackson Street, she had learned that many costs were negotiable. She persuaded the developer to pay her $7,000 transfer tax, build a second larger closet in her bedroom and cut the price by about 3 percent. (Apartments like hers are priced at $495,000 to $499,000.)
 Ms. Hartstein stresses that she had to push, but that she found many developers would work with buyers. ''No one just offered,'' she said. ''No one was like, 'This is a slashed price.' '' 
 Christine Blackburn, the Prudential Douglas Elliman broker overseeing sales at the Jacksonia, acknowledges that there are many one-bedrooms for sale right now in Williamsburg and relatively few larger apartments available. In Brooklyn, developers built more smaller units than in Manhattan to cater to younger first-time buyers.
 She said that developers realized they had a lot of competition. ''They built a lot of one-bedrooms, and there's heavier competition in that market,'' she said. ''It's a supply-and-demand thing.''
 In this market, some buyers are finding that they can get apartments that would have been out of reach before. 
 Adam and Zena Rudzki had been searching for a one-bedroom near their daughter's home in Washington Heights for the past year. They found a one-bedroom at Cabrini Terrace, 900 West 190th Street, for $350,000. The apartment, listed by Simone Song Properties, has river views. They negotiated a $5,000 reduction in the price and closed on the apartment last week. ''We had the luxury of looking and waiting for something that is reasonable in price'' and attractive, Mr. Rudzki said. ''We are very pleased.'' 
 Bargain-hunting one-bedroom buyers are finding that the longer they wait, the more opportunities they are offered. 
 In March, Bruce and Eva Forrest started looking for a one-bedroom near Madison Square Park. The couple, who live in Rockland County, weren't in a rush to buy. They intended to use the apartment as a pied-a-terre, and they wanted to make sure they found an apartment big enough for their 4-year-old son, Alexander, to run around in. 
 By June, they had a contract for a one-bedroom at the Stanford, 45 East 25th Street. The Forrests negotiated the price down to $867,500 from $875,000 with the help of Jenet Levy of Coldwell Banker Previews International.
 But when the sale was delayed, Mr. Forrest looked at the market again. He noticed that prices for one-bedrooms had dropped 5 to 8 percent and that more sellers of one-bedroom co-ops were advertising that they would accept buyers interested in pieds-a-terre.
 Although he is happy with the deal he had negotiated on his apartment and plans to close on Aug. 11, he notes that there are even more one-bedrooms to choose from today than when he found his apartment. 
 ''It was amazing how much property was on the market, and it was amazing that it was sitting there,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAD SELLERS, HAPPY BUYERS: John and Wendy Penn, left, have been trying to sell their one- bedroom on West 72nd Street since February. Three price cuts later, the apartment still has not sold at $725,000. While she was negotiating, April Hartstein, below left, was able to persuade the developer of the Jacksonia in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to add a second larger closet to her bedroom. And Bruce Forrest, shown with his 4-year-old son, Alexander, says he's pleased with the deal he got on the one-bedroom he is buying on East 25th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE9) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PURCHASE INTENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); MARRIAGE (72%); INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (65%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



76 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Who Said Brussels Was Boring?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
SUMMERTIME cries out for some beach reading. How about a page-turner on the European Union?
 On paper, the E.U. is a colossus, with nearly 500 million people and a gross domestic product of around $16 trillion, larger than that of the United States. In practice, the E.U. is an empire of paper, some 90,000 pages laboriously negotiated over half a century. These rules and regulations -- they expand to two million pages once translated into the union's many member languages -- govern everything from bottle labels to agricultural subsidies. Settle into that beach chair.
 Europe's writ is generated by the 785 members of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France; the 22,500 civil servants, known as Mandarins, who staff its executive branch, the European Commission, in Brussels; and the 27 judges of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. Confusingly, there is a parallel E.U. Council of Ministers, with one representative from each of the 27 member countries, as well as a European Council, composed of the leaders of member states. The E.U. also has a High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, but no army or navy. 
 This complex but minimal machinery, supporting one of the world's most remarkable experiments in transnational cooperation, does not usually make for pleasure reading. But in a clever memoir, ''Life of a European Mandarin,'' from the Belgian publisher Lannoo ($40), Derk-Jan Eppink entertainingly brings the internecine E.U. to life.
 First, some background: Mr. Eppink emerges from a conservative village in Holland, lands a coveted traineeship at the European Commission in 1984 and is smitten. He then goes off for a decade or so to toil as a journalist, often covering the E.U. (which even his editors find dull). With the fall of the Berlin Wall, Europe is transformed, and in the late 1990s he is invited to serve on the senior staff of a deliberately provocative Dutch commissioner of the E.U. 
 In a Brussels high-rise -- not exactly on the tourist's Grand Tour -- Mr. Eppink sets about on what he and his boss see as levelheaded work. This, the book says, means manipulating people, chiefly to remove the myriad lingering obstacles to the single European market in goods and services. But their real holy war involves demanding cultural assimilation of the waves of (mainly Muslim) immigrants to Europe, and keeping Turkey out of the E.U. Mr. Eppink and his boss (though unnamed in the book, he is Frits Bolkestein, then commissioner for the internal market of the E.U.) make enemies left and right (mostly left). 
 Settling scores archly, the book tells compelling stories, like the multiyear political intrigue to undo Europe's national postal monopolies in a Big Bang. Mr. Eppink drinks a pub dry with a former boxer who represents a British postal workers union, and brings off a coup by splitting two French-headed groups opposed to liberalization. Press leaks, tricks on allies, and more are needed to eke out a compromise.
 This is a very European book. American readers may sometimes become lost in the ''special chefs,'' E.U. jargon for the weekly meetings of cabinet personnel across the many commissions, or in the ''Hebdo,'' weekly meetings of just cabinet heads. Inexplicably, Mr. Eppink omits naming many identifiable people, like his main boss. The book's smart-alecky moments -- it caricatures the European Commission as ''the Princess'' -- can wear thin. But Mr. Eppink provides unusual immediacy and insight on what the E.U. largely is: a glorified but indispensable economic regulator and deregulator.
 To outsiders, the protagonists of the integration melees are Europeans. In the book, they appear as a bunch of national stereotypes. He is told to watch out for one eurocrat, a ''typical Greek'' who ''manipulates without you even noticing.'' (''The Dutch,'' Mr. Eppink adds, ''are generally suspicious of the Greeks.'') 
 Negotiating skills are decisive, he says, because each national culture has its ways: The Dutch are hapless, expecting to win arguments on the merits. The French ''are pedantic to the point of boredom, gradually wearing you down,'' the author says, while the Belgians excel at ''waiting until the last minute and then rushing to support the side they think is going to win.'' 
 And the Germans? They ''get moody if they don't get their own way.'' The most obstreperous, though, are the Spanish and the Poles, who ''feel themselves superior to the smaller countries but inferior to the larger ones,'' Mr. Eppink writes, yet ''demand to be treated like the big boys.'' In general, the Calvinist author concludes, the Catholics use ''all their Jesuitical tricks.''
 Mr. Eppink overindulges the politically incorrect national portraiture, obscuring the ideologies that divide the pro-European Union side between economic liberalizers, like himself, and proponents of social and environmental programs. But the book shows that policy for a collective Europe is made, or unmade, by national sentiment. How to kill a proposed regulation mandating reduced bus emissions? Spin the British press about how the European Union wants to do away with cherished double-deckers, and the French press about how it wants to privatize sacred public transit. Voila.
 Still, what Mr. Eppink calls ''the harsh reality of national (and sometimes personal) interests'' is the secret of the European Union's success. The supranational union works only because its laws are largely enforced by national governments, whose interests must be served.
 In a crisp final chapter, Mr. Eppink confronts the Mandarins' foreboding about a union in crisis. European voters -- when asked -- have rejected an E.U. constitution, even though it was recently repackaged as a ''reform treaty.'' Good riddance, he argues, because the more the E.U. tries to become like the United States, the more it ends up resembling the Soviet Union.
 Mostly, Mr. Eppink says, the European Union needs to do less: stop expanding, prune the number of parliamentarians, drop the efforts to introduce a European tax, rein in agricultural and regional policy. But it should do more on energy and immigration. ''Will Europe become a more Islamic continent?'' he asks with alarm, or will Islam in Europe ''become a more Europeanized religion?'' Both, no doubt. The achievement of the European Union is all about flexibility, and that's the only way it can survive. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); ARMIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); IMMIGRATION (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); AGRICULTURE (55%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%); FOREIGN POLICY (52%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

TITLE: Life of a European Mandarin (Book)>; Life of a European Mandarin (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



77 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6210 words

HEADLINE: Deported, by U.S. Hospitals

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG; Pilar Conci contributed reporting.

DATELINE: JOLOMCU, Guatemala 

 BODY:
High in the hills of Guatemala, shut inside the one-room house where he spends day and night on a twin bed beneath a seriously outdated calendar, Luis Alberto Jimenez has no idea of the legal battle that swirls around him in the lowlands of Florida. 
 Shooing away flies and beaming at the tiny, toothless elderly mother who is his sole caregiver, Mr. Jimenez, a knit cap pulled tightly on his head, remains cheerily oblivious that he has come to represent the collision of two deeply flawed American systems, immigration and health care. 
 Eight years ago, Mr. Jimenez, 35, an illegal immigrant working as a gardener in Stuart, Fla., suffered devastating injuries in a car crash with a drunken Floridian. A community hospital saved his life, twice, and, after failing to find a rehabilitation center willing to accept an uninsured patient, kept him as a ward for years at a cost of $1.5 million.
 What happened next set the stage for a continuing legal battle with nationwide repercussions: Mr. Jimenez was deported -- not by the federal government but by the hospital, Martin Memorial. After winning a state court order that would later be declared invalid, Martin Memorial leased an air ambulance for $30,000 and ''forcibly returned him to his home country,'' as one hospital administrator described it. 
 Since being hoisted in his wheelchair up a steep slope to his remote home, Mr. Jimenez, who sustained a severe traumatic brain injury, has received no medical care or medication -- just Alka-Seltzer and prayer, his 72-year-old mother said. Over the last year, his condition has deteriorated with routine violent seizures, each characterized by a fall, protracted convulsions, a loud gurgling, the vomiting of blood and, finally, a collapse into unconsciousness.
 ''Every time, he loses a little more of himself,'' his mother, Petrona Gervacio Gaspar, said in Kanjobal, the Indian dialect that she speaks with an otherworldly squeak.
 Mr. Jimenez's benchmark case exposes a little-known but apparently widespread practice. Many American hospitals are taking it upon themselves to repatriate seriously injured or ill immigrants because they cannot find nursing homes willing to accept them without insurance. Medicaid does not cover long-term care for illegal immigrants, or for newly arrived legal immigrants, creating a quandary for hospitals, which are obligated by federal regulation to arrange post-hospital care for patients who need it.
 American immigration authorities play no role in these private repatriations, carried out by ambulance, air ambulance and commercial plane. Most hospitals say that they do not conduct cross-border transfers until patients are medically stable and that they arrange to deliver them into a physician's care in their homeland. But the hospitals are operating in a void, without governmental assistance or oversight, leaving ample room for legal and ethical transgressions on both sides of the border.
 Indeed, some advocates for immigrants see these repatriations as a kind of international patient dumping, with ambulances taking patients in the wrong direction, away from first-world hospitals to less-adequate care, if any.
 ''Repatriation is pretty much a death sentence in some of these cases,'' said Dr. Steven Larson, an expert on migrant health and an emergency room physician at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. ''I've seen patients bundled onto the plane and out of the country, and once that person is out of sight, he's out of mind.'' 
 Hospital administrators view these cases as costly, burdensome patient transfers that force them to shoulder responsibility for the dysfunctional immigration and health-care systems. In many cases, they say, the only alternative to repatriations is keeping patients indefinitely in acute-care hospitals.
 ''What that does for us, it puts a strain on our system, where we're unable to provide adequate care for our own citizens,'' said Alan B. Kelly, vice president of Scottsdale Healthcare in Arizona. ''A full bed is a full bed.''
 Medical repatriations are happening with varying frequency, and varying degrees of patient consent, from state to state and hospital to hospital. No government agency or advocacy group keeps track of these cases, and it is difficult to quantify them.
 A few hospitals and consulates offered statistics that provide snapshots of the phenomenon: some 96 immigrants a year repatriated by St. Joseph's Hospital in Phoenix; 6 to 8 patients a year flown to their homelands from Broward General Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; 10 returned to Honduras from Chicago hospitals since early 2007; some 87 medical cases involving Mexican immigrants -- and 265 involving people injured crossing the border -- handled by the Mexican consulate in San Diego last year, most but not all of which ended in repatriation. 
 Over all, there is enough traffic to sustain at least one repatriation company, founded six years ago to service this niche -- MexCare, based in California but operating nationwide with a ''network of 28 hospitals and treatment centers'' in Latin America. It bills itself as ''an alternative choice for the care of the unfunded Latin American nationals,'' promising ''significant saving to U.S. hospitals'' seeking ''to alleviate the financial burden of unpaid services.''
 Many hospitals engage in repatriations of seriously injured and ill immigrants only as a last resort. ''We've done flights to Lithuania, Poland, Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico,'' said Cara Pacione, director of social work at Mount Sinai Hospital in Chicago. ''But out of about a dozen cases a year, we probably fly only a couple back.'' 
 Other hospitals are more aggressive, routinely sending uninsured immigrants, both legal and illegal, back to their homelands. One Tucson hospital even tried to fly an American citizen, a sick baby whose parents were illegal immigrants, to Mexico last year; the police, summoned by a lawyer to the airport, blocked the flight. ''It was horrendous,'' the mother said. 
 Sister Margaret McBride, vice president for mission services at St. Joseph's in Phoenix, which is part of Catholic Healthcare West, said families were rarely happy about the hospital's decision to repatriate their relatives. But, she added, ''We don't require consent from the family.''
 In a case this spring that outraged Phoenix's Hispanic community, St. Joseph's planned to send a comatose, uninsured legal immigrant back to Honduras, until community leaders got lawyers involved. While they were negotiating with the hospital, the patient, Sonia del Cid Iscoa, 34, who has been in the United States for half her life and has seven American-born children, came out of her coma. She is now back in her Phoenix home.
 ''I can think of three different scenarios that would have led to a fatal outcome if they had moved her,'' John M. Curtin, her lawyer, said. ''The good outcome today is due to the treatment that the hospital provided -- reluctantly, and, sadly enough, only in response to legal and public pressure.''
 Unlike Ms. Iscoa and Mr. Jimenez, most uninsured immigrant patients in repatriation cases do not have advocates fighting for them, and they are quietly returned to their home countries. Sometimes, their families accept that fate because they are told they have no options; sometimes they are grateful to the hospital for paying their fare home, given that other hospitals leave it to relatives or consulates to assume responsibility for the patients. 
 Mr. Jimenez's case is apparently the first to test the legality of cross-border patient transfers that are undertaken without the consent of the patients or their guardians -- and the liability of the hospitals who undertake them.
 ''We're the rhesus monkey on this issue,'' said Scott Samples, a spokesman for Martin Memorial.
 A Life-Changing Accident
 Mr. Jimenez's journey north was propelled by the usual migrant's dreams. When he pledged thousands of dollars to pay the smuggler who delivered him to the United States, he envisioned years of labor on the lawns of affluent America and then a payoff: the means to buy land of his own, to cultivate his own garden, back in Guatemala. 
 But fate -- in the person of Donald Flewellen, a pipe welder with a drug problem and a long criminal record -- intervened. At lunchtime on Feb. 28, 2000, Mr. Flewellen was loitering in the parking lot of a Publix supermarket in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., when the employees of an irrigation company ran inside, leaving the keys in their van. Seizing the moment, Mr. Flewellen, a thorn in the side of local prosecutors with at least 14 arrests, jumped into the van and drove off. 
 In the next few hours, Mr. Flewellen consumed enough alcohol to produce a blood-alcohol level four times higher than the legal limit. But drive he did, along the back roads that connect the affluent Treasure Coast to the agricultural interior where Guatemalan Mayan immigrants have settled in a place, coincidentally, called Indiantown.
 About 4 p.m., Mr. Flewellen was heading east on a rural road just as Mr. Jimenez and three compatriots were returning home from a day of landscaping. His stolen van and their 1988 Chevrolet Beretta crashed head-on, instantly killing two of the Guatemalans and severely injuring the driver and Mr. Jimenez, a back-seat passenger. 
 Identified first as John Doe, Mr. Jimenez arrived by ambulance at Martin Memorial, a not-for-profit hospital on the banks of the St. Lucie River in Stuart. He was unconscious and in shock from extensive bleeding, with two broken thigh bones, a broken arm, multiple internal injuries, a terribly lacerated face and a severe head injury. A doctor noted his prognosis as ''poor.''
 But Mr. Jimenez, after intensive surgical and medical intervention, survived. ''He was no longer Luis; he was another person,'' Montejo Gaspar Montejo, his cousin by marriage, said, describing a previously husky and industrious laborer who was also a soccer enthusiast. ''He didn't talk. He didn't understand anything. He stayed curled up in a ball. But he was alive.''
 During that time, Martin Memorial asked Michael R. Banks, a local lawyer who specializes in estate planning, to set up a guardianship for Mr. Jimenez. ''I said, 'Sure, what can come of such a case?' '' Mr. Banks said. ''Then it took on a life of its own. They probably regret they ever called me.''
 Mr. Jimenez, whose common-law wife and two children remained in Guatemala, had been living for just under a year with Mr. Gaspar's family. Mr. Gaspar, who works in golf-course maintenance, agreed to serve as guardian.
 At first, things were amicable. In the summer of 2000, Mr. Jimenez was transferred to a nursing home in Stuart, which may have accepted him because an insurance payout was possible.
 Mr. Flewellen, who eventually pleaded guilty to D.U.I. manslaughter, D.U.I. injury and grand theft auto, was not insured. But the Guatemalan families sought to hold the irrigation company liable since its employees left the keys in the car. Their lawsuit ultimately failed.
 In the nursing home, Mr. Jimenez began wasting away. His relatives grew anxious. Then, Robert L. Lord Jr., Martin Memorial's vice president of legal services, said, ''Mr. Jimenez was put back on our doorstep.''
 He arrived by ambulance, this time emaciated and suffering from ulcerous bed sores so deep that the tendons behind his knees were exposed. With infection raging, ''the question to be answered is if the patient's condition is terminal,'' a doctor wrote in his file.
 Again, Martin Memorial's doctors provided life-saving care. Hospitals are mandated to treat and stabilize anyone suffering from an emergency medical condition, and the federal government does provide emergency Medicaid coverage for illegal and new immigrants.
 But hospitals say that emergency Medicaid covers only a small fraction of those expenses: $80,000 in Mr. Jimenez's case, according to court papers. 
 Mr. Jimenez remained in a vegetative state, coiled in a fetal position, for ''one year, two months and 15 days,'' Mr. Gaspar said with precision. 
 Stunning his relatives and medical officials, though, Mr. Jimenez gradually woke up and started interacting with the world. ''One day,'' Mr. Gaspar said in Spanish, ''we arrived for a visit, and he said to me, 'You are Montejo.' '' 
 Not long afterward, the battle began between Martin Memorial and Mr. Gaspar, a reserved man whose Indiantown living room is decorated with a ''We Love America'' clock, a beach towel from the ancient city of Tikal and a hammered metal image of the Virgin Mary.
 A Hospital's Dilemma
 The average stay at Martin Memorial, a relatively tranquil hospital which features a palm frond design in its gleaming lobby floor and white-coiffed volunteers in its gift shop, is 4.1 days and costs $8,188. Patients rarely linger.
 Those like Mr. Jimenez who outstay their welcome are an oddity but not an anomaly. Mr. Jimenez had a roommate from Jamaica, a diabetic who lost both legs. Martin Memorial eventually flew him back to his native country, too.
 In addition to trauma patients, there are uninsured immigrants with serious health problems. ''In our emergency room, we don't turn anyone away,'' said Carol Plato Nicosia, the director of corporate business services. ''The real problem is if we find an underlying problem, and now we have six of them -- six patients who showed up in renal failure and that we are now seeing three times a week for dialysis.'' 
 One of the six, she said, voluntarily returned to Guatemala after receiving a poor prognosis. But she showed up at Martin Memorial again after her relatives insisted that she undertake the trek over the borders a second time because she could not get treatment in Guatemala, Ms. Plato Nicosia said.
 ''I don't want to sound heartless,'' Ms. Plato Nicosia said. ''A community hospital is going to give care. But is it the right thing? We have a lot of American citizens who need our help. We only make about 3 percent over our bottom line if we're lucky. We need to make capital improvements and do things for our community.''
 Martin Memorial reported a total margin of 3.6 percent over its bottom line last year and 6 percent in 2006. According to the most recent statewide data, the nonprofit medical center also reported assets of $270.6 million in 2006, with its senior executives earning more than $4 million in salaries and benefits.
 Tax-exempt hospitals are expected to dedicate an unspecified part of their services to charity cases, and Martin Memorial devoted $23.9 million in 2006, about 3 percent, which was average for Florida, according to state data. 
 Mr. Jimenez was a very expensive charity case. In cases like his, where patients need long-term care, hospitals are not allowed to discharge them to the streets. Federal regulations require them -- if they receive Medicare payments, and most hospitals do -- to transfer or refer patients to ''appropriate'' post-hospital care.
 But in most states, the government does not finance post-hospital care for illegal immigrants, for temporary legal immigrants or for legal residents with less than five years in the United States. (California and New York City are notable exceptions; Medi-Cal, the state's Medicaid program, spends $20 million a year on long-term care for illegal immigrants, as does the Health and Hospitals Corporation of New York City.) 
 Martin Memorial's lawyer, Mr. Lord, said hospitals should not be forced to assume financial and legal responsibility for these cases. ''It should be a governmental burden,'' he said, ''or the government should step in and otherwise exercise its authority for deportation or whatever it wants to do.'' 
 In Mr. Jimenez's case, the hospital's doctors determined that appropriate post-hospital care meant traumatic brain injury rehabilitation. Much to the surprise of the hospital staff, Mr. Jimenez had regained cognitive function to about the level of a fourth-grade child. 
 Hospital discharge planners searched to no avail for a rehabilitation program or nursing home. ''Unable to take patient'' was the response to many queries, as noted in Mr. Jimenez's files, which also state: ''At this time, patient remains a disposition problem.''
 Representing Mr. Jimenez's guardian, Mr. Banks took the position that the hospital had a responsibility to provide Mr. Jimenez with the rehabilitation he needed -- even if it meant paying a rehabilitation center to provide it. That, he noted, could have benefited both the hospital and the patient.
 ''It would have been more cost-effective for them,'' Mr. Banks said, given that daily patient costs in long-term care are far lower than in acute-care hospitals. ''And if the rehab worked, then Luis might have become a functional person and nobody's charge.''
 But the hospital declined, as Mr. Lord put it, ''to take out our checkbook'' and subsidize his care at another institution. 
 ''Once you take that step, for how long are you going to do that -- a year, 10 years, 50 years?'' Mr. Lord, the lawyer, asked. 
 At that point, the hospital intensified its efforts to involve the Guatemalan government in the case. In a memorandum obtained by The New York Times, a consular official wrote that the hospital ''informed us of how expensive it was becoming to care for Luis given that there was no insurance and that he is illegal and that the state won't assume responsibility for his charges.''
 Eventually, the Guatemalan health minister wrote a letter assuring Martin Memorial that his country was prepared to care for Mr. Jimenez. Gabriel Orellana, who was foreign minister at the time but did not have direct knowledge of the case, said the Guatemalan government was disposed to assist an American institution. ''If a hospital in Florida asks if we can take care of a Guatemalan patient, the tendency is to say yes,'' Mr. Orellana said. 
 Mr. Gaspar was dubious, believing the public health care system in his homeland to be grossly inadequate. 
 So the guardian and the hospital reached an impasse, and Martin Memorial finally took the matter to court, asking a state judge to compel Mr. Gaspar to cooperate with its repatriation plan. In June 2003, a hearing was held before Circuit Judge John E. Fennelly.
 The Journey Home
 In the courthouse in Stuart, a low-key, upscale town that boasts world-class fishing, George F. Bovie III, a lawyer for Martin Memorial, addressed the judge: ''This case is not simply a case, as some would try and paint it, of money. This is a case about care for a man in this country illegally who has reached maximum medical improvement at our hospital and is ready to be discharged and whose home government'' is prepared to receive and treat him.
 Mr. Banks responded: ''Your honor, this is a case about a hospital that has failed to do its job properly,'' adding that the hospital sought to ''have this court legitimize its patient dumping.''
 By the time of the hearing, Mr. Jimenez was essentially a boarder at the hospital, wheeling around the hallways and hanging out at the nursing stations. Diana Gregory, a nurse who supervises case management and discharge planning, said in a recent interview that Mr. Jimenez -- ''I will affectionately call him Louie'' -- became ''like family'' to hospital staff members, who bought him birthday cakes, knitted him blankets and gave him toys.
 According to hospital records, however, it was not all pastries and presents. Mr. Jimenez grew depressed as he gradually became more cognizant of his situation. He showed signs of regression, too. Emotional and behavioral volatility often follow serious head injuries, and Ms. Gregory said that Mr. Jimenez had developed some disturbing habits, including spitting, yelling out, kicking and defecating on the floor.
 In court, his doctor, Walter Gil, testified that Mr. Jimenez would benefit from returning to the intimacy of his family. In his case file, the doctor had noted that Mr. Jimenez had told him, ''Estoy triste,'' meaning, ''I'm sad.''
 Dr. Gil said he asked Mr. Jimenez, ''Why are you sad when you have basically everything that could be offered to you?'' And, he said, Mr. Jimenez replied, ''I miss my family and my wife.''
 Mr. Banks's witnesses challenged what they described as Guatemala's vague offer to care for Mr. Jimenez.
 Dr. Miguel Garces, a prominent Guatemalan physician and public health advocate, said in a deposition that serious rehabilitation ''is almost nonexistent'' in Guatemala outside private facilities. He predicted that Mr. Jimenez would be taken in and then released from the country's one public rehabilitation hospital within a matter of weeks.
 ''I don't want him to go home and die,'' Dr. Garces said.
 ''Nobody wants him to go home and die,'' the hospital's lawyer responded. 
 A few weeks later, Judge Fennelly ruled. ''This Court,'' he wrote, ''sails on uncharted seas.'' He acknowledged that his decision might provoke dissent but opined, ''As Aquinas once stated, 'The good is not the enemy of the perfect,' '' inverting and misattributing Voltaire's famous quote, ''The perfect is the enemy of the good.'' 
 And then he granted the hospital's petition, ordering that Mr. Gaspar stop ''frustrating'' the hospital's plan to ''relocate the ward'' back to Guatemala.
 Mr. Banks was stunned. He filed a notice of appeal and asked for a stay of the court's order while the appeal was pending. The judge asked the hospital to file a response by 10 a.m. on July 10 before he ruled on the stay.
 Four and a half hours before that response was due, shortly before daybreak on July 10, 2003, an ambulance picked up Mr. Jimenez at the hospital and drove him to the St. Lucie County airport, where an air ambulance waited to transport him back to Guatemala. Mr. Gaspar was not apprised.
 ''We went to see him at the hospital, and his bed was empty,'' he said.
 The hospital's lawyer declined to comment on why the hospital did not wait for the judge to rule on the stay. 
 Diana Gregory, the nurse, traveled to Guatemala with Mr. Jimenez, bringing a wheelchair, a week's worth of medications, ''lunch/snacks/juices/treats,'' and an emergency passport signed with a fingerprint, according to discharge records. Mr. Jimenez wore a Florida Marlins cap and carried a toy cellphone. 
 During the flight, the records said, Mr. Jimenez dozed, paged through picture books, pushed the window shade up and down and pointed outside, saying, ''Look, look!'' When he arrived in Guatemala, an ambulance took him to the National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, which occupies the converted stables of an old villa in the historic center of the capital city.
 Ms. Gregory accompanied him there, turned over his records and toured the hospital. In a recent interview, Ms. Gregory said she was impressed by the place and especially by the staff's pride in it, despite equipment that looked ''like it could have been donated to the Smithsonian.'' She added, ''That facility could have taken care of me any day.'' 
 While Ms. Gregory was taking her tour, Mr. Jimenez was holding court, according to her notes in his file, ''telling everyone that he was from Miami, Florida, and showing them his toy cat.'' At her request, a physician told Mr. Jimenez in Spanish ''that he would be staying with his new friends in Guatemala and that I was leaving.'' His response, according to her notes: ''O.K., O.K., adios.'' 
 Glad that she had helped reunite Mr. Jimenez with his homeland, she said, ''I left Guatemala quiet in my heart.''
 Care in Guatemala
 Immaculately clean but dilapidated, Guatemala's National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rehabilitation operates on a shoestring budget of approximately $400,000 a year, according to Dr. Harold Von Ahn, who was director when Mr. Jimenez arrived. 
 Half the hospital is devoted to orthopedic care and the other half serves as an ''asylum'' for profoundly disabled Guatemalans. Although it is the only public rehabilitation hospital in the country, it dedicates just 32 beds to rehabilitation and does not offer the specialized brain injury treatment that Mr. Jimenez needed.
 The Guatemalan foreign ministry said that it knew of 53 repatriations by American hospitals in the last five years. During a visit by The Times to the National Hospital in June, the most recent arrival was an 18-year-old, Diana Paola Miguel, transported there by the University Medical Center in Tucson nine days after a van accident crushed her pelvis, which the Arizona hospital repaired. Supine on a gurney, she Ms. Paola was too tremblingly upset to talk. 
 Dr. Von Ahn said he believed that American hospitals were dumping patients that should be their responsibility. ''It's the same as the classic fall on the stairs, right?'' he said. ''You go to my home, you fall on my stairs and then you sue me. I am responsible.'' 
 Shortly after Mr. Jimenez arrived, the Guatemalan hospital contacted his common-law wife, Fabiana Domingo Laureano, who lived in the city of Antigua with their two young sons, and asked her to come get him. Ms. Domingo, who was 27 at the time, was shocked to learn that her husband was back and terrified by the request. Then as now, she was eking out a living, selling traditional woven clothing in a marketplace while sharing a spare, concrete room with her sons in her parents' humble home.
 ''I was already living from hand to mouth,'' she said in an interview in Antigua, where her sons now supplement her income by selling cigarettes after school. ''How could I possibly have given him what he needs?''
 The couple met as teenagers in the highland village of Soloma. In the mid-1990s, Mr. Jimenez migrated with his wife's family to Antigua, a volcano-ringed colonial city where tourism sustains the local economy. While she sold clothing, Mr. Jimenez worked as a bus driver's assistant. Together, they earned about $6 a day, which was not enough to support their family, so Mr. Jimenez, with his wife's brother, Francisco Gaspar, decided to follow a well-traveled path to the north. That is when he changed his name from Gervacio Gaspar to Luis Jimenez, which is how he is now known, even by his family.
 After pledging to pay a coyote, or smuggler, about $2,000 each to ferry them into the United States, they crossed into California under cover of darkness and made their way to Encinitas, where Mr. Jimenez's older brother lived, Mr. Gaspar said.
 After the two men failed to find regular work, Mr. Gaspar began suffering panic attacks and returned to Guatemala; Mr. Jimenez decided to try his luck in Florida.
 ''Lamentably,'' Mr. Gaspar said, ''luck eluded him.''
 After the hospital contacted Ms. Domingo, Telemundo, the Spanish-language network, called Ms. Domingo and offered to take her to Guatemala City. Shortly thereafter, the network showed her reunion with her husband.
 ''You are Maria by chance?'' Mr. Jimenez said to his wife as the television cameras rolled. 
 ''Fabiana,'' she replied. Their two sons stood by her side, wide-eyed.
 A few weeks later, Dr. Von Ahn said, the hospital discharged Mr. Jimenez ''because we needed the bed,'' transferring him to another public hospital, San Juan de Dios. That is where Mr. Jimenez's brother, Enrique Lucas Gervacio, found him when he made his way down from the mountains by bus. 
 ''He was lying in the hallway on a stretcher, covered in his own excrement,'' Mr. Lucas said. ''So we cleaned him up and we brought him home.''
 In Favor of Jimenez
 In May, 2004, a Florida appeals court overruled Judge Fennelly.
 The Fourth District Court of Appeal found that the Florida state judge had overstepped his bounds because deportation is the prerogative of the federal government. The court also declared that no evidence supported the hospital's assertion that Mr. Jimenez would receive appropriate care in Guatemala; the discharge plan, the ruling said, was not detailed enough to satisfy federal requirements or the hospital's own rules.
 The appeals court voided the judge's order although, given that Mr. Jimenez was already back in Guatemala, that action came too late for him.
 It might affect others, though. The decision has become what is known legally as a case of first impression on the issue of hospital repatriations.
 John DeLeon, a lawyer who advises the consulates of Mexico, Honduras and Guatemala in Miami, said he now referred to it when he received calls from hospitals looking to discharge seriously injured or ill immigrants.
 ''I now write I call my Montejo Gaspar letter,'' he said. ''It's a letter that says, 'Listen, don't take action to dump this individual because you'll be risking legal action. The law is now that hospitals can't dump immigrant patients without securing appropriate after-care. If somebody has a serious illness and needs continuing care, a hospital can't simply discharge them onto the street, much less put them on a plane.' '' 
 Mr. DeLeon said that he was ''bombarded by such cases,'' adding that he was investigating another medical repatriation by Martin Memorial, which took place two weeks ago ''behind the back of the Mexican government.'' 
 Martin Memorial confirmed that on July 16 they flew Neptali Diaz, a severely brain-injured patient to Mexico. A court order authorized Mr. Diaz's transfer to an unspecified Mexican hospital, ending the man's 859-day, $2 million stay at Martin Memorial.
 After the ruling in Mr. Jimenez's favor, Martin Memorial did not appeal. But the case did not go away. The appeals court ruling set the stage for a personal injury lawsuit, taken on by Searcy, Denney, Scarola, Barnhart & Shipley in West Palm Beach. 
 With that established firm behind him, Mr. Gaspar initiated a false imprisonment action claiming that his cousin was essentially kidnapped by the hospital and smuggled out of the country in a kind of medical rendition. Since then, appeals judges have again ruled in Mr. Jimenez's favor, stating the hospital can be sued for punitive damages as well as for the cost of his medical care. 
 This infuriates Ms. Plato Nicosia, the hospital administrator, who said it was Mr. Jimenez's family who owes the hospital money and not vice versa. ''Should they win, we would like them to take those damages and pay his hospital bill,'' she said.
 Jack Scarola, representing Mr. Jimenez's guardian, said that he empathized with the hospital's ''significant economic burden'' but said that it was the ''quid pro quo'' of accepting Medicare and Medicaid funds to help finance the hospital's services. (About 45 percent of Martin Memorial's net operating revenues came from Medicare and Medicaid last year, based on state data.)
 ''Also,'' he continued, ''they chose the wrong way to deal with it. The right way would have been through the Legislature. There is no program in place to appropriately distribute care to undocumented persons who are catastrophically injured, and there should be. But you don't stick a brain-injured immigrant on a private plane and spirit him out of the country in the predawn hours.''
 Weighing Quality of Life
 The journey to Jolomcu is an arduous one, as Mr. Jimenez's new legal team discovered when several members -- a lawyer, a paralegal, a priest and a bioethicist -- first traveled there to meet him.
 After a five-hour drive north from Guatemala City to Huehuetenango and then a winding trip, filled with hairpin turns on cliff-hugging roads up and over the Cuchumatan Mountains, they arrived at the provincial city of Soloma. 
 From there, the road to Mr. Jimenez's hamlet only goes so far, and the trip must be completed on foot, up and down a rutted dirt path through goat-strewn meadows. The Americans arrived at the top panting. There, awaiting them, in an idyllically situated one-room brick house, was Mr. Jimenez, a broad grin lighting up his face.
 ''The first striking thing was his disposition: He was very, very happy,'' said the Rev. Frank O'Loughlin, who pastored migrant workers in South Florida for decades. ''Then, the second thing, he was well cared for. What I did was I got down over him and hugged him but also smelled. And there were no bedsores. Nothing was malodorous.''
 As they drove back to Huehuetenango, Marnie R. Poncy, a nurse-lawyer who runs a bioethics law project in Palm Beach County, offered her view: ''I said, 'His quality of life is better than it would be in an American nursing home.' '' 
 ''But I hazarded a guess that his longevity of existence was probably severely curtailed,'' she said.
 Still, the team reached a conclusion that surprised them: ''There was no real compelling reason to think of bringing him back to Florida,'' Father O'Loughlin said. ''We needed to focus on getting help to him or him to help in Guatemala.''
 Help has been slow in arriving. 
 When The Times took the trek to visit him in late June, Mr. Jimenez had not budged from his hilltop home since returning there and no medical professional had visited him, either. With his mother too frail to move him into his wheelchair, his life had shrunken to the confines of his bed, across from his mother's.
 During the visit, Mr. Jimenez, wearing a nubby Adidas hat and a ski jacket, sat wrapped in a Guatemalan blanket; his mother, who wore a traditional woven skirt, with a floral scarf braided through her long gray hair, stood by his side. She patted his head; he reached out to pick lint from her sweater.
 A few days prior, he had suffered a particularly violent seizure.
 ''He was almost dead,'' his mother, Mrs. Gervacio, said in Kanjobal, which was translated into Spanish by a school principal serving as interpreter. ''For many years, I am caring for him like he is a baby, changing his diaper, washing him. But this is worse. I am worried to leave him alone at all.''
 She is right to worry, said physicians consulted for this article. Patients suffering seizure disorders run the risk of injuring themselves -- and of increasing their brain damage.
 Still, Mrs. Gervacio does leave from time to time, she said, to go to Mass, shutting the door behind her and hoping for the best.
 ''It scares me a lot when you leave, Mama!'' Mr. Jimenez blurted out, revealing that he was intently following the conversation that at first took place as if he were not there.
 Given that Mr. Jimenez's mother's health is failing, the family worries about the future, too. And Mr. Jimenez shares their concern. ''The day my mother is no longer, what's going to happen to me?'' he said. ''This is what I have on my mind.''
 Mr. Jimenez, whose memory is patchy, said he remembered nothing about his time in the United States -- not Indiantown, not his job as a gardener, not the accident and not the hospital. 
 He does, remember the dreams that propelled his migration, and he expressed them eloquently: ''I headed north like a peasant with a heavy bundle on his back, bent over, determined to better himself,'' he said. ''Other people had things so I thought, 'Why not me?' But now I regret it. Maybe God was punishing me for my illusions.''
 ''No, Luis,'' the interpreter interjected, ''it was just chance, an accident, a car accident.''
 In Guatemala City, Dr. Garces, the public health advocate, said that he was not surprised that, as he had predicted, Mr. Jimenez never received further medical care. ''That's the usual story of patients that are released from the National Orthopedic Hospital,'' he said. 
 Dr. Garces called Mr. Jimenez's repatriation ''inhumane.'' 
 ''In cases like that, if you cut the medical care, you're hurting that person,'' Dr. Garces said. ''You're doing just the opposite of what the medical system should do. That goes against every international convention of human rights and health. To send him to Guatemala was to send him to very poor living and health conditions and probably he will die because of that, and that's not fair.''
 Without evaluation, doctors cannot know what potential for rehabilitation -- or survival -- Mr. Jimenez possesses.
 If Mr. Jimenez's guardian were to prevail in the lawsuit, ''it would be possible to set up a good health care arrangement for him because in private practice we have all types of specialties that he needs,'' Dr. Garces said. ''And transportation could be arranged.'' But the case could drag on for years.
 On the day of The Times's visit, before Mr. Jimenez ate a lunch of eggs, tortillas and sugar water, Mr. Banks, the lawyer, gave him a present from his cousins in Florida -- a plastic bag bulging with tube socks, undershirts and oversize sweatpants. Mr. Jimenez fingered the clothing with little interest but when a reporter began to read him the accompanying letter in Spanish, he snatched it excitedly from her hands.
 Much to the surprise of his visitors, Mr. Jimenez, despite his brain injury, could read. He smoothed out the yellow legal paper from Mr. Gaspar and began: ''I am sending you some little things. Luis, I hope that you like them.'' 
 At first, Mr. Jimenez read haltingly, then more fluidly. Later, when all his visitors had gone outside, he read the ending aloud again to himself.
 ''I want to tell you,'' he read, ''that we miss you and love you a lot. May God continue to bless you.''
 Mr. Jimenez smiled, and repeated, softly, ''May God continue to bless you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Luis Alberto Jimenez, an illegal immigrant injured in a car accident in Florida, was treated at a community hospital, which eventually sent him back to Guatemala. He spends most of his days inside a one-room house
only the presence of visitors, who can help him into his wheelchair, gives him the rare chance to get out of bed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
HOMELAND: The National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rehabilitation in Guatemala City, where Luis Alberto Jimenez was first brought, from Florida.
IN THE U.S. Montejo Gaspar Montejo, a cousin by marriage, far left, in Stuart, Fla., with his family, with whom Mr. Jimenez had lived for almost a year. Diana Gregory, center, a nurse who supervises case management and discharge planning for Martin Memorial, the hospital that sent Mr. Jimenez back to Guatemala by air ambulance, leased from American Jets, which has facilities at the St. Lucie County airport, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER) (pg.A18)
HOME CARE: Every time Luis Alberto Jimenez has a seizure, his mother, Petrona Gervacio Gaspar, above, said, ''He loses a little more of himself.''
WAITING IN GUATEMALA: From left: Fabiana Domingo Laureano, Mr. Jimenez's common-law wife, and one of their sons, Alonzo Josue Alberto Domingo, 10, outside their home in Antigua
Dr. Harold Von Ahn, who, when Mr. Jimenez arrived, was director of the Guatemalan orthopedics hospital, which dedicates just 32 beds to rehabilitation
and Petrona Gervacio Gaspar, Mr. Jimenez's mother, 72, who cares for him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A19)
 PEACE, IF NOT CARE: Luis Jimenez, whose legal team recently visited him, seemed ''very, very happy,'' said one member, the Rev. Frank O'Loughlin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); ETHICS (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (75%); MEDICAID (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (70%); BRAIN INJURIES (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (66%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (65%); BRAIN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%) GUATEMALA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



78 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Is Still Searching For, Well, Yahoo

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
 JERRY YANG, the soft-spoken chief executive of Yahoo, rarely becomes animated, at least in public. But ask him about his company's lackluster performance over the past year, and he will begin to pound the table -- albeit ever so lightly -- punctuating his answer with a dose of impatience.
 ''We have a plan,'' Mr. Yang said in an interview last week at Yahoo's headquarters here. ''We want to grow the business over a three- to five-year period. We are executing against that plan. And we are still doing that despite all the stuff that's happened to us.''
 All the stuff that's happened, of course, refers to the turbulence that has engulfed Yahoo since Jan. 31, when Microsoft made an unsolicited takeover bid. At the time, conventional wisdom was that Microsoft and its hard-charging C.E.O., Steven A. Ballmer, would quickly swallow the company. 
 But Mr. Yang has emerged as an unlikely survivor -- at least for now. He beat back Mr. Ballmer, whose offers to buy all or part of Yahoo were considered inadequate by Mr. Yang and his board. And he rebuffed Carl C. Icahn, the activist shareholder, who tried to seize control of Yahoo but settled for three seats on an expanded board.
 Even so, the question remains whether Mr. Yang is the right man for the job. 
 Many shareholders are furious with him. With the stock trading at about $20, far below the $33 a share Microsoft offered in May, the failed merger negotiations have cost Yahoo investors nearly $20 billion. ''I think they had an opportunity to get something done in the palm of their hand, and they bungled it,'' said Eric Jackson following the company's annual shareholder meeting on Friday. 
 Mr. Jackson is part of an individual shareholder group that collectively holds about 3.2 million Yahoo shares. On Friday, investors controlling about 15 percent of the shares represented at the meeting voted against Mr. Yang's re-election to the board -- signifying lingering concerns about his leadership.
 Mr. Yang says he understands shareholders' frustrations. But he says Yahoo was willing to sell itself at the right price and blames Microsoft for the breakdown in talks. 
 For now, he says he's looking forward to giving his full attention to Yahoo and transforming it into the most popular ''starting point'' for Internet users. The company says it's also developing a powerful new advertising system that can place ads on Yahoo and other sites across the Internet. 
 ''I am more determined and more excited than ever to see those changes through,'' he said. 
 For many shareholders, the idea that Mr. Yang and his team are changing Yahoo for the better is little more than an illusion. 
 ''These guys are just drinking their own Kool-Aid,'' said Mark Nelson, a co-founder of Mithras Capital, which owns about 1.7 million Yahoo shares. ''They don't get it. They don't understand the realities of their business.''
 MR. NELSON'S comments echo the views of many shareholders and analysts who say that under Mr. Yang, a co-founder of Yahoo in 1994, the company has done little to restore its competitive position with respect to Google. They say Yahoo has been indecisive, resulting in incremental changes. 
 Yahoo's results have continued to disappoint. Revenue grew 6 percent in the most recent quarter versus the same period last year, far slower than Google's 39 percent. And Yahoo's stock has continued a steady slide that began in January 2006 under Terry S. Semel, then the chief executive. The shares are down about 27 percent, near a four-year low, since Mr. Yang took over 13 months ago. In the same period, the Nasdaq has lost 11 percent.
 It is not clear that Mr. Yang will get the time he needs to carry out his plan. Microsoft could bid anew for Yahoo or, more likely, its search business. If it does, shareholder pressure on Yahoo to do a deal is certain to be intense. And Yahoo counts Mr. Icahn, and soon, two of his allies, on its 11-member board.
 Mr. Icahn did not return calls seeking comment. Writing on his blog on Thursday, he said he hoped to work with Mr. Yang to enhance value. But before he cut a deal on July 21 to join the Yahoo board, he favored both selling Yahoo's search business to Microsoft and removing Mr. Yang.
 Yahoo's chairman, Roy Bostock, however, said the board has no plans to replace its C.E.O. ''I have absolute confidence in Jerry and the management,'' he said in an interview last week. 
 At last year's annual meeting, Mr. Semel vowed to remain in place, with the board's backing. He stepped down a week later. 
 Mr. Yang's appointment as chief executive brought hope to Yahoo employees and shareholders. Under Mr. Semel, the company had become slow and bureaucratic. It had failed to jump on Internet trends like online video and social networking. Most important, it was falling further behind Google in the lucrative online search business. 
 As a founder, Mr. Yang, a polite and consummate ''nice guy,'' was well liked inside Yahoo. An engineer with a keen vision of where the Internet was heading, he was seen upon becoming C.E.O. as having a shot at reviving a company that by many measures remains one of the most successful businesses on the Internet. With some 500 million users worldwide, Yahoo is one of the Web's most visited sites, as well as the top Web e-mail service, and runs top-ranked news, sports and finance sites. 
 It remains No. 2 in search and is the largest seller of banners and other graphical ads online.
 Even last year, some questioned Mr. Yang's lack of operational experience. Unlike Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and other successful tech entrepreneurs who remained at the helm of the companies they founded, Mr. Yang and the co-founder David Filo recognized early on that they didn't have the skills to run Yahoo. They took the titles of ''chief Yahoos'' and hired others -- Tim Koogle first, and Mr. Semel later -- to run the company. Mr. Yang acted as a strategic adviser, while Mr. Filo worked on technology. 
 After 13 years in the wings, Mr. Yang, 39, said last year that he finally felt prepared to run Yahoo. 
 But critics say he has been slow to make tough and necessary choices. For instance, Yahoo pursued an advertising partnership with Google, which many investors had long recommended, only after Microsoft made its bid. And they say Mr. Yang and his team have been more focused on plotting new strategies than on carrying them out. 
 Shortly after taking over, Mr. Yang began a 100-day strategic review of Yahoo's business. He promised investors that there would be ''no sacred cows,'' raising expectations that he would finally narrow the focus of a company that was trying to be all things to all people on the Web. 
 He appeared to back the imperative to trim some of Yahoo's products and services. To emphasize the point, he invited Mr. Jobs, the chief executive of Apple, to give a talk to Yahoo's approximately 300 vice presidents last September. 
 Looking back at his 1996 return to Apple, Mr. Jobs spoke of his recipe for reviving it. That recipe included painful cuts -- from 16 product lines to 4 -- to restore financial health. Mr. Jobs also advised Yahoo executives to keep a reserve of ''dry powder'' to be able to seize new opportunities, as Apple eventually did with the iPod. 
 Many current and former Yahoo executives, who agreed to speak only on condition that they remain anonymous for fear of compromising their jobs or relationships, said Mr. Jobs's talk was inspirational. But those executives said Mr. Yang did not follow Mr. Jobs's prescription. The Yahoo chief charged a group of executives with identifying projects that couldbe cut. But when the group made its recommendations, including closing a long list of properties like OMG.com and television and education sites, Mr. Yang stalled, according to the current and former executives.
 Then, in late January, he stunned Wall Street, saying that 2008 profits would be lower as Yahoo planned to invest heavily in a new display advertising system and a project to rewire the company's technological underpinnings. Investors did not think that Yahoo had the dry powder to fire. 
 ''They kind of shot themselves in the foot,'' said Mark Mahaney, an analyst at Citigroup. ''They surprised Wall Street with this major investment initiative. If they had announced it coming out of the 100-day review it would have been more tolerated.''
 Mr. Yang's announcement sent Yahoo shares down nearly 10 percent, giving Microsoft an opening. The next day, he received an urgent call. It was Mr. Ballmer, to alert him that the next morning, Microsoft would make public its bid for Yahoo.
 Failing to anticipate Wall Street's reaction was ''naive'' and ''left Yahoo exposed to Microsoft,'' a Yahoo executive said.
 MR. YANG dismissed the criticism, saying that he had no control over the timing of Microsoft's actions and that the investments are necessary. 
 His cachet with some of his top lieutenants, meanwhile, was eroding. A series of corporate reorganizations engineered by Susan L. Decker, Yahoo's president, created instability, leading to a long list of departures of senior staff members. Ms. Decker and Mr. Yang defend the reorganizations as necessary to make Yahoo more responsive. 
 Some executives still with the company say they are dismayed that two new projects, called Aikido and Judo, amount to yet another round of strategy meetings aimed at re-evaluating Yahoo's investments in its consumer and advertising businesses. 
 ''It kind of implies a lack of confidence in the plan that's out there,'' one senior executive said. 
 With the fights with Mr. Icahn and Microsoft over, at least for now, some Yahoo employees say Mr. Yang has appeared more upbeat and confident. 
 He laughed at that observation, saying it probably says more about the mood of Yahoo than about any change in himself. Employees are more upbeat because Yahoo hit its financial projections for two quarters, despite the turmoil and a slow economy, Mr. Yang said. And Yahoo has delivered a long list of projects, he said, like improvements to its search offerings and an early version of its new advertising system. 
 For investors, a vital question is whether Mr. Yang's plan to expand Yahoo can ever deliver the kind of value that Microsoft offered. Many of Yahoo's largest shareholders wanted to sell the company to Microsoft. But they are divided over whether Yahoo or Microsoft should be blamed for the failed negotiations. 
 A turning point came on May 3 at a meeting in Seattle. Mr. Ballmer had just raised Microsoft's offer to $33 a share, or $47.5 billion. Mr. Yang said the board wanted $37 a share.
 The Yahoo team expected that the meeting would be the beginning of serious talks. But Mr. Ballmer said Yahoo's counteroffer was a sign it was not interested in a deal. An hour after Mr. Yang returned to California, Mr. Ballmer called to say he was withdrawing Microsoft's offer. 
 Yahoo has since said it would consider a sale at around $33 a share. Microsoft has insisted it's no longer interested. Instead, it has tried to buy Yahoo's search business. Yahoo has said those offers were not in shareholders' best interest.
 The companies blame each other for the failure. ''Right from the beginning we were open to doing a deal,'' said Mr. Bostock, the Yahoo chairman. ''It was simply a matter of getting the right price and getting the deal terms negotiated. They started backing off early on in the process.''
 Microsoft sees it differently. ''Microsoft diligently pursued a proposed acquisition from the day we made our offer on Jan. 31 to the day we withdrew it on May 3,'' Bradford L. Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said by e-mail. But Yahoo's management and board failed to engage in meaningful negotiations for weeks, Mr. Smith added. Some shareholders are predicting -- or perhaps merely hoping -- that one way or another, Mr. Yang will take the fall for the failed deal. 
 ''My belief is that if within a month or two there isn't something transforming in the works, the major shareholders will put enough pressure on the company that he will be forced out,'' said Mr. Nelson at Mithras Capital. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Yang, the chief executive of Yahoo. Many are questioning his leadership, but he says he is best suited to move the company forward. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERRENCE MCCARTHY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR1)
 Jerry Yang, center, with the Google co-founders Larry Page, left, and Sergey Brin at the Allen & Company conference last month in Idaho. The rival companies have an ad partnership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) (pg.TR2) CHART: MARKET CAPITALIZATION in billions (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.TR2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERGERS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); INTERNET & WWW (63%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (92%); LARRY PAGE (59%); SERGEY BRIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



79 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Two Decades Later, the 'Yuppie Scum' Weigh In

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
VICTORIA IRWIN was a young reporter for The Christian Science Monitor, in town during the late 1980s working on an article about the neighborhoods of New York, when she first set eyes on the East Village. It was love, she said, and soon she had sold her place in Cambridge, Mass., taken a new job and moved to East Seventh Street.
By the summer of 1988, Ms. Irwin felt like a part of the neighborhood. She shopped and ate locally, and spent $125,000 for a condominium apartment in the Christodora House, a 1929 high-rise on the east side of Tompkins Square Park. The building had recently been converted after decades of use as a home to social service and community groups, including the Black Panthers. 
The summer of 1988 was a turbulent one in the area, with tensions rising over a homeless encampment in the park, and noisy late-night gatherings that led the community board to support a 1 a.m. curfew. But Ms. Irwin's thoughts were elsewhere: she was supposed to get married on Aug. 11 in her native Seattle, and left a few days beforehand to get ready.
When she landed on the West Coast, she picked up a newspaper and announced to her family, ''There's a riot outside my window.''
The trouble had broken out on Aug. 6 -- 20 years ago Wednesday -- when hundreds of protesters clashed with hundreds of police officers over the enforcement of the curfew. Arrests were made, rocks were thrown, protesters were beaten, and a police barricade was rammed through the glass doors of the Christodora House.
Ms. Irwin's fiance, a mayoral aide named Leland Jones who was living in Queens, was paying close attention. ''I called her up,'' he recalled dryly the other day, ''to tell her that her investment was at some risk.''
For protesters past and present, sympathy for the relatively well-heeled residents of the Christodora House is likely in short supply.
''People really did feel that the neighborhood had been invaded and occupied by an enemy force,'' said Roland Legiardi-Laura, who has lived a few doors from the Christodora since 1978. ''For there to be a building in the neighborhood that had a doorman and an elevator was pretty shocking. It was looked at as an interloper and a harbinger of things to come. And lo and behold, things did come.''
Around this time the quintessential anti-gentrification rallying cry, ''Die yuppie scum,'' was being tossed at Christodora residents. And as Ms. Irwin recalled from Virginia, where she and Mr. Jones now live, having sold the apartment in 2001: ''We were yuppie scum -- that's what they called us. We were gentrifying; let's be honest.''
But despite a patina of nostalgia that has come to shroud the events of the era -- and lasting indignation about police brutality during the riot -- residents also recall the months leading up to the disturbance as a deeply troubled time. The homeless settlement that grew alongside the punk rock shows and loud parties, whether rooted in the economy or the city's homeless policy, was a showcase of desperation and human misery.
The park was unusable for most neighborhood residents; most of the wood from the benches had been torn up to make fires. A resident of Avenue A recalled returning from a Memorial Day weekend out of town to find a three-story bonfire blocking access to his building.
Michael Rosen, who moved into the penthouse of the Christodora shortly after the 1988 riot, expressed annoyance last week that some modern-day activists continue to single out the building in anti-gentrification protests timed to the riot's anniversary.
The stereotypes irritate him. Yes, Mr. Rosen is a former real estate developer. But he is on the board of the East Village Community Coalition, and has worked with other activists on neighborhood preservation and rezoning issues. In 1998 he and his wife took in and raised five boys from the local housing projects. So it rankled, he said, when he came home one day recently to find a group of activists outside the Christodora -- three of whom he has worked with closely on neighborhood causes -- shouting, ''Die yuppie scum.''
Mr. Rosen said he confronted one of the protesters he knew, who told him the Christodora still had symbolic value.
His retort: ''When people sit there and say, 'Well, it's a symbol' -- well, it's time to grow up. Your symbol 20 years ago isn't who we are today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MANSFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CURFEW (73%); ARRESTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010



80 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2990 words

HEADLINE: So What if the Chips Are Down?

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

DATELINE: Las Vegas 

 BODY:
 STEVE WYNN casually plops a 231-carat, plum-size, pear-shaped diamond into my greedy little paw. Seated in his office in the Wynn casino resort here, and flanked by two German shepherds, he won't tell me how much he paid for his rock.
 But he quickly points out that it's better than a 218-carat diamond that the godfather of Chinese gambling, Stanley Ho, displays in one of his casinos in Macao.
 ''I turned that diamond down,'' Mr. Wynn allows, before asking if I've toyed with his bauble long enough and prying it from my hands.
 The give and the take. The grand gesture. The over-the-top glitz. The invocation of magic in a brew of 24/7 gambling, resort excess, ultrahigh-end shopping, fine dining and routine pampering. These are all part and parcel of a toolkit toted around for decades by the man credited with changing the landscape of the Strip and bringing a semblance of class to Sin City. 
 Later this year, Mr. Wynn, 66, will open his latest project: the $2.3 billion Encore casino resort, a fantasy land featuring 2,034 luxury suites, a glass-encased casino overlooking several pools, and penthouse baccarat tables for high rollers. 
 The Encore is also an outsize gamble by a man who has made a lucrative, freewheeling career out of such moves, and it comes just as an economic malaise that has been seeping across the country is starting to slam the gambling industry.
 Like other businesses dependent on consumers and consumption to make a fast buck, the gambling trade looks particularly vulnerable.
 While revelers still fill the streets here and can be found even on a hot summer afternoon pulling slot machine levers, conventioneers are spending much less time in the city and vacationers are shelling out less on restaurants, nightclubs and gambling than they did last year.
 ''The recession we're seeing in the United States is affecting Las Vegas more this time around than in any previous cycle,'' says Dennis I. Forst, a gambling analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets. 
 Nervous investors have already pummeled casino stocks. The share price of the largest publicly traded casino company, Las Vegas Sands, headed by Sheldon Adelson, has plunged almost 70 percent from its 52-week high. The stock of another big company, MGM Mirage (which, along with its majority shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, bought Mr. Wynn's old company eight years ago), has fallen by almost exactly the same amount.
 Las Vegas Sands and MGM Mirage are also hobbled by the fact that they are undertaking huge and expensive hotel casino developments in China and Las Vegas, respectively, that have investors worried about rising debt levels on their balance sheets.
 MGM, for example, has its $9.2 billion CityCenter development under way here. It boasts as many as 8,000 construction workers erecting seven high-rise buildings on 76 acres. Projected to be completed late next year, CityCenter is to be a densely organized ''city within a city'' with a casino, luxury hotel properties, numerous luxury retailers and about 2,650 condominium residences -- yet another megaproject in a town that is already bursting at the seams and has led the nation's housing downturn. 
 On Friday, Boyd Gaming, which owns several middle-market casinos here and co-owns the more upscale Borgata in Atlantic City, said it was delaying construction of a partially built, multibillion-dollar casino on the Strip. The Boyd development is a sprawling endeavor undertaken in partnership with the Morgans Hotel Group. Boyd cited the credit crisis and the ''challenging economic conditions'' as reasons for the delay. Boyd's stock is down 73 percent over the last year.
 But even smaller companies operating in Atlantic City and elsewhere are hurting: shares of Pinnacle Entertainment are down 62 percent over the last year, Riviera Holdings is down 73 percent and Trump Entertainment Resorts is off 83 percent. 
 Although the stock of Mr. Wynn's company, Wynn Resorts, has fallen 45 percent, it is faring much better than those of his rivals. And despite the bleak times facing Las Vegas, Mr. Wynn has a rather devil-may-care demeanor when asked about the economy.
 ''What am I doing opening one of these places in a bad economy?'' he asks, leaning forward in his chair. He answers his own question by strumming his lips like a banjo, making a noise that one of his seven grandchildren might make if they were confused, before laughing uproariously.
 Joking aside, Mr. Wynn, one of the most magnetic and polarizing figures in the gambling industry, has always thrown himself into his ventures with passion and purpose. And even when embellishing his thoughts with Hollywood-like bravado, he is a wily, singular competitor who, after making hundreds of millions of dollars here, rolled the dice again. He now owns stock valued at about $2.3 billion.
 ''You saw all of these other people come out to Las Vegas and say, 'We'll just knock off a fully integrated destination resort. Nothing to it; I've done other businesses,' '' he says, snapping his fingers blithely. Then he brings his voice down to a stage whisper worthy of Dirty Harry. ''Uh, not so fast, Rodriguez. I don't think so.''
 ASKED whether Las Vegas, in its pell-mell rush to court the more recession-resistant luxury market, could be building too many luxury properties like CityCenter, Mr. Wynn stops the conversation cold. 
 ''Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Who said that is the luxury market?'' he asks, his voice rising. ''The luxury market in Las Vegas is Bellagio and Wynn. Period. You can look at the average room rate. We're in one category, and they're a notch down.''
 ''Everybody says they're fancy and beautiful, but the question is, who is delivering five-star service?'' he adds. 
 At a cost of $2.7 billion, the Wynn, which opened in 2005, is all about opulent grandeur. It has 2,716 rooms, 18 restaurants, a 45-foot waterfall cascading down a massive artificial mountain, and a shopping promenade featuring upscale brands like Chanel, Dior and Louis Vuitton as well as a Ferrari and Maserati dealership. (The company says the site sells 70 Maseratis each year.) 
 Nearly everything -- from the undulating parasols overlooking a bar to the chandeliers and the chairs -- is designed especially for the hotel, says Roger Thomas, who has created the interior of many of Mr. Wynn's hotels.
 ''I don't even like color out of a box,'' Mr. Thomas says. So he customized the wall colors. When he was told he couldn't put chandeliers over the gambling tables because they would block security cameras, he figured out a way to fit cameras inside the chandeliers.
 For his part, Mr. Wynn may be sanguine about the challenges facing Las Vegas and the economic downturn looming over the town because he has faced down naysayers and financial challenges before. 
 When he opened the Mirage in 1989, the country's economy was struggling and critics predicted he would lose his shirt. Instead, the Mirage, with white tigers, a shark tank and an erupting volcano, became an instant tourist draw and a financial success. 
 Some Wall Street analysts say Mr. Wynn is in the catbird seat because his company's debt hasn't mounted as his rivals' has, and because his focus on the jet set has so far insulated his bottom line. 
 ''Unlike Sands and MGM, investors aren't really that concerned about Wynn's balance sheet,'' says Bill Lerner, an equity analyst at Deutsche Bank. Wynn Resorts doesn't need to raise money to finish current projects in Las Vegas or China, he says, adding that the company is ''underleveraged, relatively speaking.'' Unlike MGM and Sands, Wynn Resorts doesn't have ''big development pipelines'' in the works, he says.
 What does worry investors about Wynn Resorts, Mr. Lerner says, is the concern ''that the high-end consumer may ultimately crack,'' he says. ''We don't see much evidence of that yet.'' 
 Still, the numbers might be troubling. Wynn Resorts recently reported a steep drop in net casino revenue in Las Vegas, while revenue per available room, a much-watched gauge, slipped 3 percent. Those results were offset by huge casino revenue gains in Macao, where Mr. Wynn expects to open his second casino hotel, Encore at Wynn Macau, in early 2010.
 ''Sure, I wish it was a boom time. You like to open up when everybody is ripping and roaring,'' says Mr. Wynn, speaking of the Encore's Las Vegas opening later this year. But, he adds, his properties are meant to last for decades. ''Who cares if the opening is slow?''
 BEFORE he opens Encore, Mr. Wynn is still fussing over details at the flagship hotel. He fumes at a Wynn Resorts ad in a local newspaper because it's not the right shade of red. ''Tell them we won't pay for it,'' he snarls at an employee. 
 In a meeting with his chief architect, DeRuyter Butler, he scrutinizes a prototype of a fence he wants to build around the Wynn Resorts property to keep gawkers from sitting on the grass or, even worse, changing babies' diapers there (which they've been know to do, he says). 
 And the wind: It's whistling through the elevators in his lobby and driving him nuts. Alternating between pounding his fist on the desk and grumbling under his breath, Mr. Wynn makes his point: how can we be a top-notch hotel and have our guests being blown all over the place?
 He doesn't brook the notion that he might be a micromanager, because all the little things add up when it comes to serving and pleasing his customers. ''Attention to detail? This is what we do,'' he says, crediting his fellow ''dreamers and schemers'' who work with him for sharing his vision and corporate culture -- most notably his wife, Elaine, to whom he's been married for most of the last 45 years. (They briefly divorced but remarried.) Among her duties is overseeing special events for the company. 
 Mr. Wynn leans on Elaine figuratively and literally, often throwing an arm around her as she guides him through the property; a degenerative eye disease is causing him to go progressively blind.
 ''What I've realized in the years that I've been married to him is that if you don't share his life, you get left behind,'' says Ms. Wynn, who is a member of the Wynn Resorts board. ''A guy like Steve doesn't mellow out. He still has his explosions. But they pass quickly.''
 ''Steve is an Aquarius; his feet are off the ground,'' she says. ''The thrill for him is still creating. He loves the design element of this, and he is quite brilliant at inspiring the staff.''
 MR. WYNN first came to Las Vegas as a young boy with his father, Mike Wynn, an East Coast bingo parlor operator and a compulsive gambler. After his father died, Mr. Wynn and his new bride, Elaine Pascal, a former Miss Miami Beach, took over the bingo business. Steve called out the numbers; Elaine counted the cash. 
 The Wynns eventually made their way to Las Vegas, where, in 1967, Mr. Wynn bought a 3 percent stake in the Frontier casino. Three months later, several partners were accused of being fronts for a group of Detroit mobsters. Mr. Wynn was cleared of any mob connections in the investigation, which resulted in some convictions of partners and led to the sale of the Frontier to Howard Hughes. 
 With the help of his mentor, E. Parry Thomas (Roger Thomas's father), Mr. Wynn got a second chance. Mr. Thomas, who headed the only bank willing to lend money to casinos at the time, backed Mr. Wynn in some early land deals and set him up in a liquor distributorship. Mr. Thomas became known as a main conduit for the Teamster pension fund money that was pumped into the city during the Jimmy Hoffa era.
 Later, again with Mr. Thomas's counsel, Mr. Wynn started accumulating stock in the publicly traded company Golden Nugget, owner of what was then a rundown casino in downtown Las Vegas. Over time, he staged a takeover of the company, eventually renovating and expanding the casino. His burgeoning profile subjected him to repeated and routine regulatory investigations for possible ties to organized crime, all of which, Mr. Wynn is quick to point out, found him to be squeaky clean.
 He later built a Golden Nugget in Atlantic City, before selling that and turning his focus to Las Vegas to build the Mirage. The Mirage's popularity ignited a new boom here, and Mr. Wynn followed up with the Treasure Island. 
 His piece de resistance was the Bellagio, a $1.6 billion Italianate resort that opened in 1998. It featured luxury retailers, high-end restaurants and a gallery of art collected by Mr. Wynn. It became the linchpin of Mirage Resorts, a publicly traded company with Mr. Wynn at the helm. 
 But by early 2000, Mirage's stock was getting clobbered. Investors were alarmed at ballooning costs, an expensive development on the Gulf Coast and Mr. Wynn's sometimes odd behavior, which included serenading Wall Street analysts with show tunes. 
 MGM Grand made a bid for Mirage -- whether it was a hostile or friendly overture has been a point of contention between the two sides -- eventually agreeing to buy the company for $4.4 billion and to assume about $2 billion of Mirage debt.
 Mr. Wynn was 58 at the time, and he walked away from the deal with about $500 million. He could have retired and lived comfortably off of his winnings, but, ever the entrepreneur, he began staging his comeback.
 Even before the Mirage-MGM sale closed, Mr. Wynn had agreed to buy the old Desert Inn, a beaten-down Strip property, for $270 million. He spent a further $70 million or so snapping up nearby homes so that he could create a golf course. Then he snared a coveted casino license in Macao.
 When Wynn Resorts went public in 2002, Mr. Wynn says, he had about $250 million invested in the company. Since then, he has received about $300 million in distributions from his 24 percent stake, which is currently worth about $2.3 billion.
 Taking some not-so-subtle jabs at his competitors, he defends his current projects as being well within his comfort zone. ''We didn't overreach. We're not building 12 hotels at once,'' he states, his voice again rising. ''I think we've bitten off something we can chew. How it shakes out, only time will tell.''
 THESE days, there are any number of casinos here offering deluxe rooms, restaurants with name-brand chefs, Rodeo Drive-equivalent shopping, steakhouses, booming nightclubs and, of course, the latest must-have: an all-day pool club party with a D.J. 
 ''At this point, everyone has essentially the same product,'' says Anthony Curtis, who publishes the Las Vegas Advisor, a newsletter. ''So the trick is finding a way to differentiate yourself.'' 
 Mr. Curtis is sitting on a lounge chair at the edge of the ''Brazilian Pool'' at the Rio casino hotel. Exotic dancers from the Sapphire Gentlemen's Club play topless volleyball in the pool with men who pay a $30 cover charge ($10 for women). Everybody needs a gimmick, concludes Mr. Curtis.
 Indeed, Las Vegas may need all the gimmicks it can find. 
 The number of visitors through May was flat compared with last year, but hotels and casinos are offering discounts on room rates to attract tourists. Analysts at Citigroup estimate that room rates fell 12.4 percent in the second quarter and 18.4 percent in the early part of the third quarter, compared with the same periods last year. 
 Still, those visitors are gambling less; wagering revenues on the Strip are down 5.6 percent this year through May, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. 
 Operators here say they're seeing a significant difference between the low- and middle-end casinos and those catering to wealthier consumers. MGM, which owns the high-end Mirage and Bellagio as well as casinos like Excalibur and Circus Circus, which cater to less affluent travelers, says its overall revenue per room on the Strip fell 4 percent in the first quarter.
 ''Our lower-end properties were down much lower,'' says James J. Murren, MGM's president and chief operating officer. ''They were 5 percent to 12 percent below a year ago.'' 
 Several projects here, meanwhile, face uncertain futures as they struggle to secure financing in one of the worst credit crises in decades. Deutsche Bank, for instance, is foreclosing on the $3.5 billion Cosmopolitan casino after the New York developer Ian Bruce Eichner defaulted on a $760 million loan. 
 MGM has a joint venture to build CityCenter with Dubai World, the Middle Eastern investment fund, which put $2.7 billion into the project. They're now trying to raise a further $3 billion. Analysts and investors say they're worried about MGM's unsold condominiums because the condo market has been hit particularly hard in Las Vegas.
 Amid such uncertainty, the city's push over the last two decades to diversify is also providing cause for worry. About 59 percent of the Strip's revenue now comes from nongambling activities like restaurants, hotels and leases on retail space, compared with 42 percent in 1990, says William Eadington, director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and Commercial Gaming at the University of Nevada, Reno.
 That's one reason the big gambling companies are feeling this economic downturn more than they have in the past. ''What we're seeing is discretionary spending take a hit,'' Mr. Eadington says. ''People may still come to Vegas, but they don't have to spend $300 a plate on a dinner or hotel room.''
 With the Encore opening about five months away, Mr. Wynn continues to wave off fears of an economic downturn. Instead, he launches into a long conversation about politics and foreign affairs, having just returned from a weekend at the secretive Bohemian Grove gathering in California. There, he explains, he interacted with such political heavyweights as George P. Shultz, Henry A. Kissinger and Colin L. Powell.
 When asked where he fit in, exactly, with that crowd, the showman, ever self-aware, spreads his hands and laughs.
 ''Me?'' he asks, thumping his chest. ''I'm over here hustling craps!'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seemingly calm about an economic downturn, Steve Wynn is finishing a $2.3 billion casino resort. Some fear that high-end gamblers could start to cut back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RAUCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
CityCenter, a $9.2 billion project on the Las Vegas Strip, will include seven high-rise buildings on 76 acres. It is a joint venture of MGM Mirage and Dubai World, the Mideast investment fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RAUCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Encore casino hotel, Steve Wynn's latest venture on the Strip, is to feature penthouse baccarat tables for big spenders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RAUCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Wynn last October with his wife, Elaine, a director of Wynn Resorts. ''The thrill for him is still creating,'' she says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.BU8) CHART: FEWER SPINS OF THE WHEEL: In recent months, Las Vegas has been caught in the nation's economic downturn. Fewer people are visiting the city, and those who do visit are spending less money on hotels and gambling than they did last year. (Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority) (pg.BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); RESORTS (90%); GAMING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); DOGS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (63%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (63%); LVS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (63%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (94%); SHELDON G ADELSON (57%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%) NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); MACAO (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



81 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: In Tight Times, the Day Trip Appeals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

DATELINE: JACKSON, N.J. 

 BODY:
 IN recent summers, Rebecca Shaneck, her husband and three children, who live in Stewartsville, N.J., have rented a beach house on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. But not this summer of 2008.
 ''Not with these gas prices,'' said Ms. Shaneck, a teacher. And not with these airfares. ''We're not flying anywhere,'' she said. This summer, the family's trip to the shore was an hour and a half drive to Point Pleasant Beach, N.J., for a one-night stay. Ms. Shaneck went on the computer, using Priceline to find a motel for $55. They arrived in the late afternoon, when parking at the beach is half price and admission is free, and picked a Thursday because there was a free fireworks show that night.
 Next morning, they drove here, to Six Flags Great Adventure amusement park, using coupons for reduced-price tickets and packing a cooler. ''We'll eat lunch out in the parking lot,'' said Ms. Shaneck. 
 And while the kids were having a ball (''Excuse us,'' said Ms. Shaneck, ''we have to go on the merry-go-round now''), it was a way-closer-to-home, less expensive ball. Nor were they alone at the busy park. Attendance at Six Flags is ''trending up so far this summer,'' compared to the last two summers, said Mark A. Kane, the park president, and he says a major reason is parents like the Shanecks, adjusting to a bad economy by taking their fun nearby.
 Walking the park, even with all the loud music and the roar of 13 roller coasters and the Great American Scream Machine screaming, you could still hear the biggest economy in the world shifting into a lower gear. Parents repeatedly described making vacation adjustments, giving up Yellowstone National Park or Caribbean ports for Bugs Bunny National Park and Looney Tunes Seaport here at Six Flags.
 Ray Raya, a lawyer, and his wife, Mary, have made trips in past summers to Alaska and Hawaii, but this summer, when a friend offered them and their two young children a free time-share in Hawaii for a week, they turned it down. ''We priced flights and they were $2,300,'' said Mr. Raya. ''Even though the time share was free, we said no.'' This summer, their splurge was a season ticket to Six Flags.
 In past summers, George and Lynn Oldenhage of North Arlington, N.J., who were here with their daughter and three granddaughters, had vacationed in Las Vegas and Aruba. ''This summer, we haven't been able to go any distance,'' Mr. Oldenhage said.
 Elizabeth and Farley Mohammed, of North Coram, on Long Island, have taken their family to Disney World in previous years. But this summer, they said, the three-hour drive to Six Flags was as far as they're going. ''We're not even going to Hershey Park,'' said Ms. Mohammed. ''It's four and a half hours, and we're not going any place we have to stay overnight.''
 John Stracensky of Forked River, N.J., who had just been to see the dolphin show with his 2-year-old son, Cole, said he was spending most of this summer on land. ''We have a boat but we're not using it much -- a fill-up is $500 to $600.''
 Anticipating the bad economy, Six Flags has reduced the basic admission ticket $10 this summer, to $49.99; has offered two-for-one specials; and given additional discounts on ticket packages purchased online.
 A sign of the effect gas prices are having: the number of visitors to the park taking New Jersey Transit buses is up 20 percent over last year, according to Mr. Kane, the park president.
 While people come to an amusement park to be amused, it was striking how many parents expressed serious worries about the economy and how many had made adjustments to cope. Carol Burroughs of Colonia, N.J., who was soaked after getting off the Flume ride with her three daughters, Kelly, 9, Erica, 7, and Chrissy, 5, said her husband, an EKG technician at a hospital, had taken a second job, nights, in a doctor's office. ''Oh, yeah, it worries me,'' she said. ''But we don't talk about it with the kids. I feel it's my and my husband's responsibility.''
 As he stood in a spot of shade at Wiggles World, Mr. Oldenhage, a manager for an air-conditioning company, said that because of the housing crisis, his firm's business is down 25 percent.
 Ms. Mohammed said she wasn't sure if she'd be able to send her 11-year-old daughter back to classical dance lessons this fall. ''I've explained it to my daughter to a certain degree -- we can't spend money on everything we used to,'' the mother said. ''Have we told her all the hard facts? No. She really wants to go back to dance. Hopefully we'll be able to afford it. They are our future.''
 Though the sun was bearing down and it was in the high 80s, when asked what she was worried about, Ms. Mohammed, who works for Cablevision, said, ''I'm worried whether I'll be able to afford to heat my house this winter.''
 For many of the parents, this is the first time they've experienced a bad economy as adults. ''Yes,'' said Mr. Raya. ''We're really, really worried.'' 
 Still, they'd come to be amused, and on this day, it was working. As Mr. Raya pushed the carriage forward he shouted to his 2-year-old son, ''Wiggles World, here we come.'' And after talking so soberly about home heating prices, the Mohammeds rushed off, laughing, to ride Kingda Ka, because it is supposed to be the tallest roller coaster on earth.
 Ms. Shaneck's children didn't know it was a $55 motel room, because it had the one essential every child needs: great beds for jumping on. Indeed, the next morning, when they woke in that $55 room, 7-year-old Kate uttered the words that no parents ever think they'll hear, the words that keep parents going even when gas is $4 a gallon, when the roundtrip airfare to North Carolina is $900 and a bag of groceries is $50. ''Thanks for taking us, Ma. This is so much fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STAYING NEAR: Six Flags Great Adventure is seeing more visitors, including the Mohammed family, left, and Rebecca Shaneck, above, with two of her children, Kate, left, and Paige.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (75%); AIR FARES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (61%)

COMPANY: SIX FLAGS GREAT ADVENTURE LLC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARUBA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



82 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CAMPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: At Hither Hills, A Roughing-It Ritual

BYLINE: By KARIN LIPSON

DATELINE: Montauk 

 BODY:
 ON the first morning that Bill and Susan Bahlatzis and their two sons, then 3 and 7, camped at Hither Hills State Park in Montauk, ''the seagulls stole our entire breakfast in two minutes,'' Mr. Bahlatzis recalled with a wry smile earlier this summer at the park's oceanfront campground. 
 That was in 1994, when the couple didn't yet know about screenhouses, portable shelters with mesh sides that protect one's breakfast from winged intruders. The family had driven down from their home near Albany with just a tent, sleeping bags and the desire, Mrs. Bahlatzis said, ''to fall asleep to the sound of the ocean.'' 
 They returned the following year with more equipment, including a screenhouse and air mattresses -- although ''we had to blow up our mattress in the bathroom with a hand dryer,'' Mrs. Bahlatzis admitted. 
 So, the next year, they added a battery-powered air pump. Since then, the campsite amenities have grown steadily for the Bahlatzis family -- Susan, 45; Bill, 48; Dave, 17; and Jonathan, 21 -- for whom a stay at Hither Hills is pretty much an annual ritual.
 ''Montauk is my favorite place to go,'' said Mr. Bahlatzis, a licensed practical nurse who also runs his family's diner in Albany. What draws him back every year, he said, is ''the serenity of being on the ocean,'' as well as the uncommercialized, family-friendly atmosphere of the park, four miles west of Montauk village. Gulls aside, ''the only confrontation we've had is with the weather,'' which can be fickle, he said. 
 The Bahlatzis family are actually relative newbies to Hither Hills. ''A lot of these people have been coming here 20 or 30 years,'' Mike English, the park supervisor, said in a telephone interview. 
 Take John Eells, 51, a computer programmer from Pleasant Valley, N.Y., who was putting away scuba gear after an outing with his son David, 23. ''I've been coming here since the year before he was born,'' Mr. Eells said. ''There was a group of us that came here, all friends, from New Hampshire, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Some of them are here.'' 
 The Eellses's 34-foot recreation vehicle amply housed Mr. Eells, his wife, Pennie, 51, and their son. But its size was not unusual for Hither Hills, where accommodations traditionally range from the simplest of tents to motor homes with plasma TV's. ''One I know had a Jacuzzi in it,'' said George Gorman, the deputy regional director for Long Island of the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. 
 There is keen competition for the 168 campsites. Set within 1,755 acres of woodlands and beach, the campground is invariably full for the summer, park administrators say. Though Long Island has two other state campgrounds, at Wildwood State Park in Wading River and Heckscher State Park in East Islip, Hither Hills is the most coveted, Mr. Gorman said. 
 To reserve a spot, campers generally start hitting their speed dials exactly nine months before they hope to start their vacation. ''It's like concert tickets,'' said Sue Volpato, 38, of Putnam Valley, N.Y., who was staying at Hither Hills with her husband, Joe, 43, their son, Joseph, 6, and family friends. 
 Campers are allowed only one seven-night reservation during the peak season. But it's a poorly kept secret that visitors often wangle additional stays by having friends or a family member with a different last name make another reservation. 
 ''I've heard things, but I really couldn't say,'' Mr. English, the park supervisor, said. 
 They are motivated, perhaps, by a wide stretch of powdery sand and the Atlantic surf, attended in season by lifeguards. Evenings are simultaneously low key and buzzing with activities like twilight softball games, family-style movies, and on Monday nights, country-western line dancing. 
 Campsites are $24 to $27 a night for New York State residents, double that for out-of-staters. Nationwide, the economic downturn may be making such low-budget vacations especially appealing, said Stuart Bourdon, the editor of Camping Life magazine. Sales of outdoor equipment are slightly higher than last summer, he said, and ''campground reservations this summer are at an all-time high.'' 
 Beyond beach and budget, the often-mentioned sense of community at Hither Hills seems to draw return visitors. Kevin Horner, 52, of Butler, N.J., was talking about how many friends his family had made there over the years when a fellow camper, R.J. Stromski, stopped by, fresh from the evening's softball game. 
 Mr. Stromski, 21, was at Hither Hills for the first time since returning last October from a tour in Iraq with the Marine Corps. Mr. Horner, a district manager for Starbucks, had frequently sent bags of coffee to the marine while he was overseas. ''I hadn't met him, but I'd met his sister and his mom and dad at Hither Hills,'' Mr. Horner said. 
 In one package, he said, he enclosed a letter saying, ''I hope to sit down and enjoy a cup of coffee with you at Hither Hills.'' 
 And did that happen, Mr. Horner was later asked over the phone? 
 ''The final day, he came by, and we enjoyed a pot of coffee,'' Mr. Horner said. ''We had a French press, and exchanged phone numbers.
 ''He drinks a lot of coffee.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SLOW LANE: Michael DiBiasi pulled a full load at Hither Hills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (90%); CAMPING (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); FAMILY (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); SCUBA DIVING (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); NURSES & NURSING (51%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



83 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Riches to Rags

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the Money Culture column for Newsweek and the Moneybox column for Slate.

 BODY:
BAD MONEY 
 Reckless Finance, Failed Politics, and the Global Crisis of American Capitalism. 
 By Kevin Phillips. 
 239 pp. Viking. $25.95. 
 As a rule, one should avoid books in which sentences begin, ''I wrote back in 1994 that. ...'' But Kevin Phillips, who has migrated from avatar of angry populist Republicanism in the early 1970s to avatar of angry populist both-parties-be-damnedism in the current decade, is such a prolific writer that self-reference is inevitable. And in this, his 14th book, Phillips does indeed sample from a book he wrote in 1994 -- as well as from books he wrote in 2004 and 2006. Nonetheless, ''Bad Money'' is perfectly timed for the present, as the foul stench of moldering debt and American decline lingers in the concrete canyons of Manhattan. 
 The problems besetting America today are ones Phillips has identified before: an increasing dependence on trading and speculation (a phenomenon he calls ''financialization''), the Bush family's friendliness to oil producers, and the bond between evangelical Christians and the Republican Party. Today, these factors -- along with the weak dollar and a financial sector in shambles -- have created a toxic mix that he calls ''bad money.'' 
 The ascendancy of finance in national efforts is no accident. ''Elements of the U.S. government decided, back in the late 1980s, that finance, not manufacturing or even high technology, had to be the sector on which Washington would place its strategic chips,'' he writes. And so the Reagan supply-side go-go years begat the Clinton Rubinomics go-go years, with both presidents deferring to bond markets and deregulating the financial system. Increasingly, Phillips says, credit has been used less to finance virtuous commercial activity and more to make bets on financial outcomes. After 9/11 and the dot-com bust, the powers that be decreed that ''real estate assets and home prices had to be the follow-up strategy.'' 
 Phillips layers several other themes on top of his repurposed scaffolding. There's a discussion of peak oil, and a side trip into the thicket of government statistics, from which he emerges with the plausible charge that the government's tally of the Consumer Price Index probably understates inflation. Reverting to his role as political analyst, he also argues that the hostile takeover of government by finance was made possible by evangelicalism. The popularity of the ''prosperity gospel'' and the fact that at least 30 percent of Bush voters were said to be end-time believers caused the increasingly down-market Republican coalition ''to accept a period of speculative indulgence and conspicuous favoritism to the upper income brackets.'' (Who cares about income distribution when we could all, rich and poor, be raptured tomorrow?) 
 Phillips is an entertaining writer. His prose is full of jabs and one-two combinations that keep things moving briskly. But not all the punches land. The book is like a greatest-hits collection with a few new tracks. Like many such compilations, it will thrill convinced fans and fail to win many new converts. While the phenomena he points to are all real, and there's plenty of data to back them up, the conclusions aren't always on the mark. 
 At root, he sees the American political economy as a system in which supercapable policy makers and businesspeople sit around and decide what will happen and then put the policies in place to make sure it does. The reality is that the financial elite contains as many screw-ups as it does masters of the universe. And for someone so hostile to speculation, Phillips sure engages in a lot of it. Though he admits he has ''no personal firsthand knowledge'' and is ''not interested in becoming a conspiracy investigator,'' he reports that some people think the President's Working Group on Financial Markets, which consists of officials from the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve Board and elsewhere, has turned into the ''Plunge Protection Team,'' whose purpose is to use government resources to keep markets perpetually buoyant, protect big firms from losses and ''suppress what economist Joseph Schumpeter called 'creative destruction.''' If there is a Plunge Protection Team, it's doing a profoundly awful job. Creative destruction is alive and well and living at 383 Madison Avenue, the former headquarters of the firm formerly known as Bear Stearns.
 What's more, there are reasonable alternative explanations for many of the outcomes Phillips attributes to the corrupting influence of finance. Did the Federal Reserve cut interest rates sharply in the early years of this decade with the express intent of causing a housing bubble and enticing Americans to borrow recklessly? Possibly. But you don't have to be a wing-nut supply-sider to believe that the global macroeconomic situation in 2001-2 -- benign inflation in the United States, legitimate fears of deflation, and China's mercantilist purchase of American government bonds and mortgage-backed securities -- helped create a situation in which low interest rates made sense. In hindsight, Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Fed, clearly left rates too low for too long. But I doubt he did so for malicious reasons. I've spent a few hours in Greenspan's company -- and untold hours parsing his words -- and I came away with the impression that he's less a malevolent mastermind than a very smart but fallible guy who has as difficult a time puzzling out the meaning of financial data as the rest of us. Phillips likewise speculates that relentless talk of peak oil boosted the price of oil futures throughout 2007. But again, there's a more complicated explanation, having to do with the weak dollar, relentless demand growth in Asia and the fact that OPEC countries are themselves becoming big consumers of oil.
 Toward the end, Phillips slips the surly bonds of polemics and ascends to the plane of Grand Historical Argument. In recent years, financial services grew to represent more than 20 percent of the gross domestic product, compared with 13 percent for manufacturing. To him, that's a sure sign the American empire is going the way of the Roman one. As he notes on a breakneck tour through history, any nation that ''lets itself luxuriate in finance at the expense of harvesting, manufacturing or transporting things'' is setting itself up for decline. In another 20 years, he suggests, the United States will be a giant hedge fund, while China, the world's workshop, will lead. ''Asia as a whole ought to dominate the global economy by 2030.'' But during bubbles, analysts are always prone to extrapolate from recent trends indefinitely into the future and reach dramatic conclusions. (Hence the publication of ''Dow 36,000: The New Strategy for Profiting From the Coming Rise in the Stock Market'' right when the markets were about to tank.) Phillips thinks the bubble that led finance to occupy an outsize role in the economy will continue unabated, when in fact it's already popped. The finance sector's share of the gross domestic product and the Standard & Poor's 500 is furiously shrinking. Meanwhile, as alternative energy has caught fire, the sector has moved on from financing finance to financing wind turbines, ethanol plants, solar panel manufacturers -- the types of real economic activity Phillips lauds.
 He correctly observes that the United States is losing its centrality in the global economy. But that may have as much to do with global successes as with American failure. One can certainly see the last several years as a tableau vivant of debt-induced debauchery in the United States. One could also see them as a period in which five straight years of synchronous growth lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. It's convenient and easy to ascribe the dislocations we're experiencing -- the high cost of food and oil, the sale of major American companies to foreigners, the weak dollar -- to a conspiracy hatched by a cabal of well-connected Americans. But it's increasingly apparent that interest rates, and the prices of commodities like oil and wheat, all of which are determined in global markets, are no longer in the control of the Federal Reserve, the White House or Wall Street. Phillips believes the agony of the American consumer is a function of ''the global crisis of American capitalism.'' But he's got it backward. We're experiencing the first American crisis of global capitalism.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); BONDS (73%); WRITERS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); STATISTICS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); HOME PRICES (61%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); TAKEOVERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



84 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2162 words

HEADLINE: Shipping Costs Start to Crimp Globalization

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
When Tesla Motors, a pioneer in electric-powered cars, set out to make a luxury roadster for the American market, it had the global supply chain in mind. Tesla planned to manufacture 1,000-pound battery packs in Thailand, ship them to Britain for installation, then bring the mostly assembled cars back to the United States. 
 But when it began production this spring, the company decided to make the batteries and assemble the cars near its home base in California, cutting more than 5,000 miles from the shipping bill for each vehicle.
 ''It was kind of a no-brain decision for us,'' said Darryl Siry, the company's senior vice president of global sales, marketing and service. ''A major reason was to avoid the transportation costs, which are terrible.'' 
 The world economy has become so integrated that shoppers find relatively few T-shirts and sneakers in Wal-Mart and Target carrying a ''Made in the U.S.A.'' label. But globalization may be losing some of the inexorable economic power it had for much of the past quarter-century, even as it faces fresh challenges as a political ideology.
 Cheap oil, the lubricant of quick, inexpensive transportation links across the world, may not return anytime soon, upsetting the logic of diffuse global supply chains that treat geography as a footnote in the pursuit of lower wages. Rising concern about global warming, the reaction against lost jobs in rich countries, worries about food safety and security, and the collapse of world trade talks in Geneva last week also signal that political and environmental concerns may make the calculus of globalization far more complex. 
 ''If we think about the Wal-Mart model, it is incredibly fuel-intensive at every stage, and at every one of those stages we are now seeing an inflation of the costs for boats, trucks, cars,'' said Naomi Klein, the author of ''The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism.'' 
 ''That is necessarily leading to a rethinking of this emissions-intensive model, whether the increased interest in growing foods locally, producing locally or shopping locally, and I think that's great.''
 Many economists argue that globalization will not shift into reverse even if oil prices continue their rising trend. But many see evidence that companies looking to keep prices low will have to move some production closer to consumers. Globe-spanning supply chains -- Brazilian iron ore turned into Chinese steel used to make washing machines shipped to Long Beach, Calif., and then trucked to appliance stores in Chicago -- make less sense today than they did a few years ago.
 To avoid having to ship all its products from abroad, the Swedish furniture manufacturer Ikea opened its first factory in the United States in May. Some electronics companies that left Mexico in recent years for the lower wages in China are now returning to Mexico, because they can lower costs by trucking their output overland to American consumers.
 Neighborhood Effect
 Decisions like those suggest that what some economists call a neighborhood effect -- putting factories closer to components suppliers and to consumers, to reduce transportation costs -- could grow in importance if oil remains expensive. A barrel sold for $125 on Friday, compared with lows of $10 a decade ago. 
 ''If prices stay at these levels, that could lead to some significant rearrangement of production, among sectors and countries,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, author of ''The United States and the World Economy'' and director of the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics, in Washington. ''You could have a very significant shock to traditional consumption patterns and also some important growth effects.''
 The cost of shipping a 40-foot container from Shanghai to the United States has risen to $8,000, compared with $3,000 early in the decade, according to a recent study of transportation costs. Big container ships, the pack mules of the 21st-century economy, have shaved their top speed by nearly 20 percent to save on fuel costs, substantially slowing shipping times. 
 The study, published in May by the Canadian investment bank CIBC World Markets, calculates that the recent surge in shipping costs is on average the equivalent of a 9 percent tariff on trade. ''The cost of moving goods, not the cost of tariffs, is the largest barrier to global trade today,'' the report concluded, and as a result ''has effectively offset all the trade liberalization efforts of the last three decades.'' 
 The spike in shipping costs comes at a moment when concern about the environmental impact of globalization is also growing. Many companies have in recent years shifted production from countries with greater energy efficiency and more rigorous standards on carbon emissions, especially in Europe, to those that are more lax, like China and India. 
 But if the international community fulfills its pledge to negotiate a successor to the Kyoto Protocol to combat climate change, even China and India would have to reduce the growth of their emissions, and the relative costs of production in countries that use energy inefficiently could grow. 
 The political landscape may also be changing. Dissatisfaction with globalization has led to the election of governments in Latin America hostile to the process. A somewhat similar reaction can be seen in the United States, where both Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton promised during the Democratic primary season to ''re-evaluate'' the nation's existing free trade agreements. 
 Last week, efforts to complete what is known as the Doha round of trade talks collapsed in acrimony, dealing a serious blow to tariff reduction. The negotiations, begun in 2001, failed after China and India battled the United States over agricultural tariffs, with the two developing countries insisting on broad rights to protect themselves against surges of food imports that could hurt their farmers.
 Some critics of globalization are encouraged by those developments, which they see as a welcome check on the process. On environmentalist blogs, some are even gleefully promoting a ''globalization death watch.''
 Many leading economists say such predictions are probably overblown. ''It would be a mistake, a misinterpretation, to think that a huge rollback or reversal of fundamental trends is under way,'' said Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. ''Distance and trade costs do matter, but we are still in a globalized era.'' 
 As economists and business executives well know, shipping costs are only one factor in determining the flow of international trade. When companies decide where to invest in a new factory or from whom to buy a product, they also take into account exchange rates, consumer confidence, labor costs, government regulations and the availability of skilled managers. 
 'People Were Profligate'
 What may be coming to an end are price-driven oddities like chicken and fish crossing the ocean from the Western Hemisphere to be filleted and packaged in Asia not to be consumed there, but to be shipped back across the Pacific again. ''Because of low costs, people were profligate,'' said Nayan Chanda, author of ''Bound Together,'' a history of globalization.
 The industries most likely to be affected by the sharp rise in transportation costs are those producing heavy or bulky goods that are particularly expensive to ship relative to their sale price. Steel is an example. China's steel exports to the United States are now tumbling by more than 20 percent on a year-over-year basis, their worst performance in a decade, while American steel production has been rising after years of decline. Motors and machinery of all types, car parts, industrial presses, refrigerators, television sets and other home appliances could also be affected. 
 Plants in industries that require relatively less investment in infrastructure, like furniture, footwear and toys, are already showing signs of mobility as shipping costs rise. 
 Until recently, standard practice in the furniture industry was to ship American timber from ports like Norfolk, Baltimore and Charleston to China, where oak and cherry would be milled into sofas, beds, tables, cabinets and chairs, which were then shipped back to the United States. 
 But with transportation costs rising, more wood is now going to traditional domestic furniture-making centers in North Carolina and Virginia, where the industry had all but been wiped out. While the opening of the American Ikea plant, in Danville, Va., a traditional furniture-producing center hit hard by the outsourcing of production to Asia, is perhaps most emblematic of such changes, other manufacturers are also shifting some production back to the United States. 
 Among them is Craftmaster Furniture, a company founded in North Carolina but now Chinese-owned. And at an industry fair in April, La-Z-Boy announced a new line that will begin production in North Carolina this month. 
 ''There's just a handful of us left, but it has become easier for us domestic folks to compete,'' said Steven Kincaid of Kincaid Furniture in Hudson, N.C., a division of La-Z-Boy.
 Avocado Salad in January
 Soaring transportation costs also have an impact on food, from bananas to salmon. Higher shipping rates could eventually transform some items now found in the typical middle-class pantry into luxuries and further promote the so-called local food movement popular in many American and European cities. 
 ''This is not just about steel, but also maple syrup and avocados and blueberries at the grocery store,'' shipped from places like Chile and South Africa, said Jeff Rubin, chief economist at CIBC World Markets and co-author of its recent study on transport costs and globalization. ''Avocado salad in Minneapolis in January is just not going to work in this new world, because flying it in is going to make it cost as much as a rib eye.''
 Global companies like General Electric, DuPont, Alcoa and Procter & Gamble are beginning to respond to the simultaneous increases in shipping and environmental costs with green policies meant to reduce both fuel consumption and carbon emissions. That pressure is likely to increase as both manufacturers and retailers seek ways to tighten the global supply chain.
 ''Being green is in their best interests not so much in making money as saving money,'' said Gary Yohe, an environmental economist at Wesleyan University. ''Green companies are likely to be a permanent trend, as these vulnerabilities continue, but it's going to take a long time for all this to settle down.'' 
 In addition, the sharp increase in transportation costs has implications for the ''just-in-time'' system pioneered in Japan and later adopted the world over. It is a highly profitable business strategy aimed at reducing warehousing and inventory costs by arranging for raw materials and other supplies to arrive only when needed, and not before. 
 Jeffrey E. Garten, the author of ''World View: Global Strategies for the New Economy'' and a former dean of the Yale School of Management, said that companies ''cannot take a risk that the just-in-time system won't function, because the whole global trading system is based on that notion.'' As a result, he said, ''they are going to have to have redundancies in the supply chain, like more warehousing and multiple sources of supply and even production.''
 One likely outcome if transportation rates stay high, economists said, would be a strengthening of the neighborhood effect. Instead of seeking supplies wherever they can be bought most cheaply, regardless of location, and outsourcing the assembly of products all over the world, manufacturers would instead concentrate on performing those activities as close to home as possible. 
 In a more regionalized trading world, economists say, China would probably end up buying more of the iron ore it needs from Australia and less from Brazil, and farming out an even greater proportion of its manufacturing work to places like Vietnam and Thailand. Similarly, Mexico's maquiladora sector, the assembly plants concentrated near its border with the United States, would become more attractive to manufacturers with an eye on the American market.
 But a trend toward regionalization would not necessarily benefit the United States, economists caution. Not only has it lost some of its manufacturing base and skills over the past quarter-century, and experienced a decline in consumer confidence as part of the current slowdown, but it is also far from the economies that have become the most dynamic in the world, those of Asia.
 ''Despite everything, the American economy is still the biggest Rottweiler on the block,'' said Jagdish N. Bhagwati, the author of ''In Defense of Globalization'' and a professor of economics at Columbia. ''But if it's expensive to get products from there to here, it's also expensive to get them from here to there.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A MORE REGIONALIZED TRADING WORLD: Appliances, like those for sale in a Seattle store, above, are being affected by sharp increases in transportation costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); ELECTRONICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FURNITURE MFG (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); FOOD SECURITY (69%); TRENDS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); FOOD SAFETY (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (84%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



85 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DIVERSIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Heading to the Shore As Gas Prices Rise

BYLINE: By COLEEN DEE BERRY

DATELINE: POINT PLEASANT BEACH 

 BODY:
 DESPITE initial predictions that high gas prices could ruin the season at the Jersey Shore, beaches have been crowded this summer from Sandy Hook to Cape May. 
 ''Due to the high gas prices, a lot of people are rediscovering their own backyard with the Jersey Shore,'' said David Weinstein, a spokesman for AAA Mid-Atlantic.
 But visitors are cautious about emptying their wallets, and hotels, motels, rentals, restaurants and amusements are reporting less-than-stellar profits, despite the crowds.
 The number of people at the boardwalk and beach this season has been even with last summer, according to Marilou Halverson, a spokeswoman for Jenkinson's Boardwalk here. But the visitors are spending about 12 percent less on food and as much as 35 percent less on games, she said. 
 ''I'm sure the gas prices, and the overall downturn in the economy, have a lot to do with it,'' she said. ''Instead of a shrimp dinner, they're ordering a slice of pizza. Instead of spending their spare dollars on a game, they're saving it to gas up on the ride home.''
 Day-trippers abound. Throughout the New York region, families are downsizing their vacations, staying closer to home to save money and gasoline. 
 For the Devlin family, spread out on their beach blankets at Jenkinson's, the Jersey Shore won out over their condo in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
 Myrtle Beach is more than 500 miles from their home in Howell, which means a minimum of two fill-ups each way in their sport utility vehicle, a Ford Explorer, at $110 a tankful, Teresa Devlin explained. ''We'll save gas and more by renting out our condo,'' she said.
 ''We're just 20 minutes away from here,'' her husband, Stuart, added from his reclining beach chair. ''So we plan on coming here every other week.'' 
 Another day-tripper, Alisa Walker of Montvale, who was at Jenkinson's beach with a friend, Suzy Dokmajian of Elmwood Park, said, ''Before we might have gone down as far as Atlantic City or Stone Harbor, but this is as far as one tank of gas takes us.''
 ''Only a tank away'' is how the Greater Wildwood Chamber of Commerce markets its beaches. While the beaches may be full, many beachgoers are cutting their stay short. ''Instead of staying a whole week, now it's only maybe three to four days,'' said Tracey DuFault, the chamber's executive director. ''There's a lot of last-minute bookings. Everyone has their eye on the weather. They don't want to pay $50-plus a tank for a rainy weekend.''
 Rich Bilotti, who owns the Surfside Motel on Broadway in Point Pleasant Beach, said his business was down ''about 17 percent.'' Mr. Bilotti said he, too, was seeing a larger-than-usual number of last-minute bookings, as gas-conscious tourists keep an eye on the weather.
 The initial trepidation about gas prices and the economy led to a slow start for the summer season in some areas. ''I know initially our rentals were soft, and we didn't have the bookings we usually had in June,'' said Lori Pepenella, marketing director for the Southern Ocean County Chamber of Commerce, which handles Long Beach Island. ''But things have picked up. We're about where we were last year.''
 Some hotels and motels at the shore have embraced rebates or gas cards as an incentive for guests. Amy Herberg, general manager at the Williams Cottage Inn in Beach Haven, on Long Beach Island, said the inn was offering a $50 rebate for a midweek stay.
 ''Maybe they'll use it to fill up their tank, maybe they'll use it on a nice dinner out. We tried it out around Memorial Day and it was very popular, so we're keeping the rebate all summer,'' Ms. Herberg said.
 Summer rentals can differ widely from town to town. Case in point: At Diane Turton Realtors, Terry Hemmer, a rental manager in the Sea Girt office, in Monmouth County, reported that rentals were down and that tenants were looking to rent for only a week or two, as opposed to a month or a full season.
 Barely five miles down the road in the Diane Turton Point Pleasant Beach office, Robert Booth, a rental agent, reported a ''better than last year'' season in his area, with rentals up by 12 percent. He noted that more families were sharing rentals.
 If beachgoers are sharing rentals, they are also sharing rides. At Jenkinson's, four retirees lined a bench on the boardwalk -- Fortune Zacco, Donatella Gerlach, Marilyn Lutz and Julie Fulton, all from the Whiting section of Manchester, in Ocean County.
 ''We all chipped in for gas for the ride,'' Ms. Zacco said. Ms. Gerlach added: ''Julie is our designated driver. That's the only way we could get down here -- is to car-pool.''
 Gas prices in New Jersey can be a pleasant surprise to nonresidents. Some stations in Point Pleasant Beach were selling regular last week for $3.83 a gallon, while the average was about $4.30 in Manhattan and $4.29 on Staten Island.
 ''We come down here and gas up. We're saving $6, maybe $7 a tank,'' said Brandon Trifeletti of Staten Island, who was spending his day at Jenkinson's with his friend Lauren Caruso, also of Staten Island. ''Hey, every little bit helps.'' 
 Over the Memorial Day holiday, AAA surveyed the toll bridges between Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey and found that traffic was down about 15 percent from last year. Recent statistics from the New Jersey Highway Authority showed traffic down around 4 percent on both the Garden State Parkway and the New Jersey Turnpike. 
 But on the Fourth of July, according to figures from the South Jersey Transportation Authority, 97,133 cars passed through the Pleasantville toll booth of the Atlantic City Expressway -- a 14.2 percent increase from the 85,026 cars in 2007. And train ridership was up for New Jersey Transit, which has been offering discounts to beach destinations like Point Pleasant Beach.
 ''This tells you that despite the impact gas prices may have on overall traffic, people are still coming to the shore,'' Mr. Weinstein of AAA said.
 Nancy Byrne, executive director of the New Jersey Division of Travel and Tourism, said the state is ''perfectly positioned'' between New York City and Pennsylvania for a vacation that is only one fill-up away. ''You almost feel bad saying that you're doing well because of the gas crunch, but with people staying closer to home, the Jersey Shore is benefiting,'' Ms. Byrne said.
 Back on the boardwalk on the perfect beach day, Ariel Espaillat from Paterson was shepherding his mother, his wife, his two daughters and his two nephews onto the beach.
 ''Yeah, the gas prices make a dent in your wallet,'' Mr. Espaillat said. ''Where it used to cost maybe $30 to drive down here, now it's like $45.''
 ''But you got to get out, you can't stay home all summer,'' he said. ''You got to have a vacation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOLIDAY AT HOME: In a tough economy, many New Jerseyans are vacationing at places like Jenkinson's beach, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BEACHES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAMILY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); CONDOMINIUMS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



86 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: For Retirees, Dining and Lively Debates

BYLINE: By ANN FARMER

 BODY:
 One by one, the men gathered on a recent Friday. The first to get there was Jack Steinbrock, 86, a retired accountant who strolled into the Upper East Side restaurant just before noon. Next was Al Lobel, 82, a retired psychiatrist who took a seat beside him and inquired, with a twinkle in his eye, ''Do you come here often?'' 
 Pretty soon, nine men, ages 79 to 90, filled a window table at the Silver Star Restaurant. It is the same table they occupy every Monday and Friday as members of an informal group called Romeo, which stands for Retired Old Men Eating Out. 
 ''There's no attendance. No dues. We're just freelancers,'' said Hal Witkin, 88, a former camera manufacturer, explaining that these get-togethers are intended for one simple pleasure: hanging out with the guys. 
 ''It gives the wives two days of silence,'' Mr. Steinbrock said.
 ''They want us to expand it to five days a week,'' said Herb Rothchild, 86, who ran a printing plant in Elmhurst, Queens, for 50 years. 
 ''But the girlfriends hate it,'' joked David Arkin, 82, a former international economic consultant for Chemical Projects Associates. 
 The group, which totals 12 when no one is in the hospital or on vacation, is composed of former professionals. Most live nearby. All have an avid interest in politics. In fact, most met while taking continuing education classes at Marymount Manhattan College taught by Simeon Gluckson, 86, a part-time instructor of political science who helped found the group. 
 Each meeting lasts about two hours. Topics making headlines and the more loquacious among the group tend to dominate. ''Not all the guys have all their marbles, but what they have left of their marbles they bring to the table,'' said Mr. Gluckson, who was president of Sunrise Knitwear, a wholesale clothing company in New York, and a former consultant for Liz Claiborne. 
 ''The conversations can be vigorous,'' added Mr. Witkin, noting that the group had followed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign with enthusiasm. ''But she screwed up,'' interjected Mr. Arkin. 
 Now, Senator Barack Obama has taken over as a centerpiece of discussion. ''He's always here,'' said Mr. Lobel. 
 The group enforces a few ground rules. For one, they agree to disagree. For another, ''No talking about the grandchildren or sicknesses,'' said Mr. Gluckson. 
 Why? ''Once we start, we won't stop,'' explained Mr. Lobel.
 However, they never lose an opportunity to rib one another. When someone asked about the Band-Aid on Mr. Steinbrock's pate, Mr. Rothchild remarked, ''He tried to commit suicide, but he misfired.'' 
 Their twice-weekly presence is well appreciated by the staff of the Silver Star, a diner at 65th Street and Second Avenue. ''I love them and the way they are,'' said Joanna Katechis, a manager. ''They're very funny, very pleasant. Raining, shining, snowing, they're always here. They make the best of themselves.''
 And there are apparently many more like them. The Silver Star group is part of a loosely organized network of hundreds of similar clubs across the country, according to the Romeo Web site, romeoclub.org. 
 No Juliets are allowed. After all, they have their own organizations, like the Red Hat Society. 
 Nevertheless, none of the men at the Silver Star noticed that for years an older woman had always eaten at a table next to them. After the woman died, a manager confided to Mr. Gluckson that she was intentionally eavesdropping. ''She enjoyed the political discussions,'' he said the manager told him. 
 Some discussions quickly become debates. Like the conversation about the merits of The New Yorker's cover satirizing Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, as terrorist-embracing Muslims. ''It was in poor taste,'' Mr. Rothchild insisted. ''Good satire is always bad taste to somebody,'' Mr. Arkin countered. 
 They eat with relish, but with an eye to their waistlines. ''Egg whites dominate,'' said Eugene Brinker, 90, a former vice president with Bankers Trust who, like several others, ordered an egg-white omelet. Mr. Rothchild dug into a half-cantaloupe with cottage cheese. ''I live dangerously,'' he grinned.
 The group usually steers away from sharing investment tips. ''One projection we can make about the stock market is, it will fluctuate,'' Mr. Lobel said.
 Toward the end of their meal, Murray Halper, a former trader with the New York Mercantile Exchange, and the youngest member, at 79, collected $3 from each for a tip. 
 But the needling continued. 
 ''I'm here with the compliments of Cybex treadmill,'' Mr. Arkin said, describing with a hint of satisfaction how he walks on a treadmill for two miles at a time. 
 ''Then he passes out for the rest of the week,'' Mr. Gluckson added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the job, from left: Jack Steinbrock, Al Lobel, Simeon Gluckson and Murray Halper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MEN (78%); CHILDREN (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (52%); APPAREL WHOLESALERS (50%); SUICIDE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



87 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; FUEL TAX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Despite Windfall, Transportation Lags

BYLINE: By KEITH M. PHANEUF

DATELINE: Hartford 

 BODY:
 WHEN Gov. M. Jodi Rell and state lawmakers imposed a hefty tax rate increase on gasoline wholesalers three years ago, the cost was passed on to consumers at the pump, and the new revenue was earmarked for an ambitious $2.3 billion transportation plan to help unclog highways and modernize aging transit systems.
 That increase has created a windfall for the state as its motorists pay the second-highest taxes on gasoline in the nation. But the transportation revitalization plan is jeopardized by skyrocketing construction costs and the diversion of dollars from fuel taxes to pay for other state budget needs, lawmakers and transportation advocates said. 
 Based on last week's average price of $4.21 per gallon of gasoline in Connecticut, a motorist filling a 12-gallon tank would pay $50.52 cents at the pump. Of that, about $6.12 is for fuel-related state taxes, including the tax on wholesalers that is passed on to consumers. Federal taxes add an additional $2.21 to those 12 gallons. 
 Because Connecticut increased the tax rate on wholesalers to 7 percent a gallon from 5 percent in three stages since 2005, motorists pay 18 cents more per gallon in taxes today than they did three years ago.
 With the cost of wholesale gasoline spiking, the state has collected $301 million in unanticipated revenue from the wholesale tax since 2005, and analysts project $173 million above the original forecast for this fiscal year. 
 ''The biggest price gouger in Connecticut is state government,'' said Michael J. Fox, the executive director of the Gasoline Automobile Service Dealers of America, which represents about 450 gas station owners across Connecticut.
 When the wholesale tax increase was approved in May 2005, the state anticipated that it would receive $206 million in new revenue during the first four years, which in turn would finance the debt service for the transportation program. 
 Instead, the General Assembly's Office of Fiscal Analysis reports that the state has collected $427 million in new revenue in the last three years -- and should receive another $253 million this year. That totals $680 million. 
 Republican leaders in the State Senate and House have called for another special session to cap the wholesale tax by establishing an artificial ceiling price for tax calculation purposes. 
 The average wholesale price of gasoline, which was about $1.50 per gallon in May 2005, now exceeds $3.40 per gallon, according to petroleum industry officials. 
 Capping the tax at current wholesale prices would spare consumers from paying more if prices surged again, said Representative Lawrence F. Cafero, a Republican from Norwalk and the House minority leader.
 Senator John McKinney, a Republican from Fairfield, agreed. ''We can't control what happens in the world, but we can control Connecticut tax policy,'' said Mr. McKinney, who is the Senate minority leader. 
 Meanwhile, there is growing concern about the future of the transportation fund, which was supposed to be financed by fuel tax revenues. According to documents from the Office of Fiscal Analysis, nearly 41 percent of the $680 million in additional wholesale tax revenues collected since 2005 will have been spent on nontransportation programs before this fiscal year ends on June 30, 2009. 
 In 2006, with the wholesale tax increase already exceeding initial revenue projections, lawmakers and Mrs. Rell agreed to dedicate $477 million of that additional revenue, up from $206 million, for transportation projects during the program's first four years. However, only $402 million has been allocated for transportation in that period, while the remaining revenue has gone or will go to supporting other state budget needs.
 ''No one likes to increase taxes, but we convinced the world that your taxes will go into transportation projects that you can see and touch and use to make your quality of life better,'' Representative Cafero said. ''People like to believe that. The problem is, that's not the case.''
 With the spike in oil prices driving up the cost of wholesale gasoline, the projection for revenue from all state fuel taxes is up 42 percent, or $276 million, this fiscal year alone, compared with four years ago, according to legislative analysts. However, nearly half of that money, about $134 million, will be used for other purposes, the Office of Fiscal Analysis said. Transportation projects will receive 69 percent of all fuel tax revenue this year.
 Ten years ago, 92 percent of all fuel tax revenue was earmarked for, and spent on, transportation. The picture changed dramatically in 2003 when Gov. John G. Rowland and the legislature used all revenues from the wholesale fuel tax, about $125.5 million, to help erase an $800 million mid-fiscal year deficit. That year, which also saw a state income tax increase and about 2,500 state employee layoffs, marked the first time Connecticut had diverted more than $100 million in fuel revenue for nontransportation purposes.
 More than $650 million in revenue from all fuel taxes has supported nontransportation spending since 2005, and nearly $1.1 billion since 2003. Another $290 million is earmarked for other purposes this fiscal year, according to legislative analysts.
 Connecticut levies an excise tax of 25 cents per gallon on retail sales of gasoline and 43.4 cents on diesel fuel, and a 7 percent tax on wholesale transactions involving gasoline, motor oil and certain other petroleum products, but not home heating oil. 
 According to the Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association, the latter tax adds 26 cents per gallon to the wholesale price based on the current market. That brings the total cost of state fuel taxes to more than 51 cents a gallon for consumers.
 The wholesale tax rate stood at 5 percent in May 2005 when lawmakers unanimously approved five annual increases. The first three, which took effect in 2005, 2006 and 2007, brought the rate up to 7 percent. Lawmakers met in special session this June and agreed to cancel the fourth, which would have raised the wholesale tax rate to 7.5 percent effective July 1. The final increase, boosting the rate to 8.1 percent in 2013, remains in effect.
 Now, with both the overall budget and the transportation fund in deficit and inflation driving up project costs, the challenge of preserving the vision that was outlined for the transportation initiative looms large despite the huge windfall in unanticipated tax revenue.
 ''I think people are starting to come to the realization that the transportation initiative may not deliver all of the improvements they expected,'' said Donald J. Shubert of Wethersfield, a founding member of Keep CT Moving, a coalition of 36 labor and industry organizations.
 The transportation fund, which totals $1.1 billion this fiscal year, covers debt service and various operating costs for the Transportation and Motor Vehicles Departments. Legislative analysts are forecasting a fund deficit of $25 million this year and $100 million by 2011.
 ''It's a real concern,'' said Robert L. Genuario, Mrs. Rell's budget director, adding that the governor tried to persuade lawmakers to transfer an additional $25 million for transportation in the coming year but lawmakers rejected her request. 
 Mr. Genuario defended using the unanticipated revenue when the state budget is facing a deficit. ''You can't transfer revenue out of the general fund without cutting spending somewhere else,'' he said.
 The administration projects that this year's $18.4 billion overall budget is $150 million in deficit, and revenue projections for most other taxes are being reduced.
 Skyrocketing construction costs are another concern for the transportation program. The costs of diesel fuel and bituminous liquid asphalt are up 168 percent and 177 percent, respectively, since 2004, according to Mark D. Rolfe, the Transportation Department's construction division chief.
 After the department warned in mid-April that a rail maintenance yard under development in New Haven, priced at $308 million in 2005, could now cost $1.2 billion, Governor Rell ordered new estimates for all transportation projects.
 The Transportation Department confirmed more bad news in a June 19 letter to legislators: The anticipated cost of replacing the Pearl Harbor Memorial Bridge in New Haven has grown in two years to $2 billion from $1.34 billion.
 Fairfield County projects under review include a new bypass and other improvements along Route 7 in Brookfield, Norwalk and Wilton, and additional speed change lanes on Interstate 95 in Darien and Norwalk.
 Legislative analysts said that the Special Transportation Fund, $1.1 billion of the overall $18.4 billion state budget, could see its deficit forecast worsen if its annual debt service -- $435 million this year -- has to increase because of growing cost estimates. 
 Even if projected costs explode, don't expect more fuel tax increases soon, said Senator Robert B. Duff, a Norwalk Democrat and vice chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee.
 ''It's going to take us years to fix this, but we've got to start putting the transportation money back now, and look for creative solutions to address the rest of the budget,'' Mr. Duff said. ''We have to honor our promise first.'' 
 Governor Rell, who proposed capping the tax using a wholesale price of $1.75 back in September 2006, said recently that she still supports a ceiling on the wholesale tax, though it would have to be closer to current prices. She also argued for $25 million of the new revenue to go toward transportation in fiscal 2009.
 But Democrats control 107 of the 151 seats in the House and 23 of the 36 in the Senate, and their leaders oppose the cap plan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN NEED: The Pearl Harbor Memorial Bridge in New Haven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 ON THE ROAD: Additional speed change lanes on Interstate 95 in Darien, above, and Norwalk are being considered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); APPROVALS (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



88 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 7982 words

HEADLINE: The Last Battle

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
I. The Shiite Moment
 One morning this spring I climbed into a Polish helicopter with a major-general in the Iraqi Army named Othman Ali Farhood. He had just surveyed the situation in Kut, a small city 100 miles southeast of Baghdad where Iraqi forces were contending with a Shiite militia, and was returning to his division headquarters near the city of Diwaniya. Othman, who is a lanky man with a welcoming manner, commands the Eighth Division, rated by the U.S. military as one of Iraq's best units. In many ways, he also embodies the complexities of Iraq today -- including its best hopes for a stable future. A career military man, he served under Saddam Hussein; a tribal sheik, he was at home in the ancestral culture of Iraq's south; a member of Iraq's Shiite majority, he and his family had been discriminated against under Saddam's Sunni-dominated regime. Othman prides himself on his ability to rise above sectarianism, but he also conveys a belief in the historical inevitability of the Shiite ascension in Iraq. ''Right now we are the leaders of Iraq,'' he told me, ''and we will not let it go to anybody else.'' 
 By the time I met up with him, Othman had proved himself one of the Americans' most effective partners. Over the past year he worked with Team Phoenix, which was composed of three marines dispatched by Gen. David H. Petraeus to troubleshoot problems in the Shiite south. Together they devised a plan to rid Diwaniya of the Shiite militias that roamed freely through the streets, and to strengthen the hand of Shiite tribal leaders: a variation on the tribal-empowerment plan that had already done so much to blunt the power of Sunni insurgents in Iraq's once-violent Anbar Province. But their strategy wound up attracting far more attention than they liked from the Shiite-led government of Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, for the simple reason that sharing power within the Shiite fold was just as difficult for many Shiites as sharing power with Sunnis. 
 Over the previous few years, my own trips through Iraq had focused mostly on the U.S. and Iraqi governments' struggle with Sunni insurgents in battlegrounds like Mosul, Baquba, Hit and Arab Jabour. But the nature of the war has fundamentally changed. The American ''surge,'' together with a strategy that emphasized protecting civilians and engaging with Sunni tribesmen, weakened Sunni insurgents and jihadists. The bitter fighting between Shiites and Sunnis that turned Baghdad into a killing ground of car bombs, suicide attacks and mutilated corpses has quieted down. And now this sectarian struggle has been eclipsed by a growing tussle for power among the Shiites themselves. The competition involves Prime Minister Maliki and the Shiite religious parties (the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq and Maliki's Dawa Party) that constitute the ruling hierarchy in Baghdad; Moktada al-Sadr's weakened but still-popular political movement and its military wing, the Jaish al-Mahdi, or Mahdi Army; and, increasingly, Shiite tribes. 
 The tug of war among the religious parties and the Shiite tribes has emerged as one of the most-significant but also least-understood aspects of Iraq's political scene. It pits leaders from the Shiite core of Maliki's coalition against outsiders looking for a way in. It is a struggle between party officials who spent the Saddam years in exile, mostly in Iran, and tribal leaders who endured his rule at home -- and, on another level, a contest between urbanized Shiites, who lean more toward the religious parties and Sadr's movement, and agrarian Iraqis, whose loyalties lie more in tribal society. Significantly, it is also a rivalry between Shiites who favor a government based on religious parties and those who have a more secular vision. 
 All of these tensions have been growing as Iraqis prepare for provincial elections, which are expected to be held by early next year and will set the stage for national elections to choose a new Parliament. While Americans have been preoccupied with the presidential race at home, Maliki has been doing everything he can to buttress his position and consolidate control.
 ''The most prominent dividing line in Iraqi politics now is between the 'powers that be' and the 'powers that aren't,' '' Sam Parker, an Arabic speaker who works for the United States Institute of Peace, a policy center in Washington, told me recently. ''The 'powers that be' spent much of the 1980s and 1990s in open opposition to Saddam. Nearly all of these leaders spent substantial time outside of Iraq. They have well-organized parties but lack a strong social base and have an outsize degree of influence in the national and provincial governments. Because of their disproportionate dominance of the political process, they only stand to lose by any movement toward political openness. 
 ''The 'powers that aren't,' '' Parker added, ''are fragmented and weak. What they want is in.'' 
 Where does the U.S. stand? ''They seem to be working hard for provincial elections,'' Parker said, ''which would make the system more inclusive and give the 'powers that aren't' and the popular forces they represent an opportunity for a share of the power. But at the same time, the United States' main priority appears to be buttressing the state security apparatus that belongs to the 'powers that be.' '' 
 In an ideal world the two policy imperatives would be balanced. The politics of inclusiveness would lay the foundation for the long-term stability of the country, while improvements in Maliki's capacity to govern would lead to a state that could supplant the Hobbesian state of nature that has typified Iraq -- and make it easier for the United States to reduce forces. Iraq, however, is far from an ideal world, and Maliki's growing confidence in his own power leaves the U.S. steadily less able to shape events.
 II. Controlling the Center
 A dirt-poor city of half a million, Diwaniya is the capital of rural Qadisiya Province. There is a factory there, now shuttered, that once made tires for much of Iraq. Diwaniya is also near the site of an ancient battle in which an Arab army defeated the Persians and, according to Muslim tradition, helped bring Islam to what is now the Islamic Republic of Iran. Portraits of Imam Ali, the martyr whom Shiites revere as the legitimate successor of Muhammad, are everywhere on the city's walls. 
 The city is also just a few miles north of Camp Echo, where a Polish general this spring oversaw a force including Polish, Ukrainian, Romanian, Lithuanian and Mongolian troops. The small American contingent was limited to military advisers to the Iraqi division; a military-police unit that worked with the Iraqi police; a Special Forces team; and Army National Guardsmen from Illinois who had a partnership program with the Polish Army. 
 General Othman had troops in five southern provinces, but his division headquarters was set up in a series of neat one-story buildings little more than a stone's throw from Camp Echo. It was a short but significant distance: the Iraqis were outside the wire. Over cups of sugary tea, Othman explained that Qadisiya Province was an important junction for pilgrims headed west to the holy cities of Najaf and Karbala, for American military supplies running north -- and for Iranian-made arms. ''You can consider Diwaniya as the heart of the middle of Iraq,'' he said. 
 The Iraqi commander saw an Iranian hand behind much of the trouble in his zone and said there was a continuing need for American support. ''Iran has supported the militias with money and weapons,'' he said. That was one reason a speedy American withdrawal would be ''disastrous,'' he said, adding, ''The Iraqi army now is not complete.''
 Othman was not an instant partner for the U.S. military. During his years in Hussein's army he was a devoted student in the military schools and received reconnaissance training in the Soviet Union. As a Shiite, however, he was never fully accepted by the regime. A number of his relatives were arrested when a Shiite rebellion swept the south after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, and several, he told me, were never seen again. 
 Detained by the American military in March 2003, Othman was, he said, treated well and he read newspapers to keep track of the turmoil engulfing his country. But he considered Ambassador L. Paul Bremer's decision in May 2003 to disband the Iraqi Army such an affront that he refused to join the American effort to build a new military from scratch. ''They offered me a chance to come back to the army, but I refused,'' Othman said. ''I considered that an insult for the army.''
 A sheik in the Ghannam tribe, Othman hails from a small village 30 miles from Diwaniya, where he still resides in a modest one-story home guarded by his tribesmen. Like many tribal leaders, he is not ostentatiously religious -- in contrast, for example, to the governor of Qadisiya, who is a solid party man with the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq and spent nearly two decades in Iranian exile. Othman has no compunctions about shaking hands with a woman or seeing her in a professional role. His own daughter is studying to be an electrical engineer. 
 As Iraq struggled with Sunni insurgents and renegade militias, Othman gradually changed his mind about joining the new army and was given command of a brigade. It was not an easy time to serve in the Iraqi military. Othman's unit was underequipped, and his men were prone to desertion. But his secularist ease around professional women helped him find a way out of his predicament. A Marine lieutenant, Ann Gildroy, had the task of working with the overmatched Iraqi troops. The daughter of a retired Army Green Beret who served in Vietnam, Gildroy graduated from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and tried investment banking before disappointing her parents by joining the Marines in 2001. After graduating from officer-candidate school, Gildroy was in Hawaii with Marine Aircraft Group 24 when she volunteered in August 2004 to join the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit as a liaison to the Iraqi forces. 
 It was one of the darkest periods of the war. Bremer closed Sadr's newspaper, Al Hawza. A secret indictment was issued by an Iraqi judge calling for Sadr's arrest in connection with the murder of a rival cleric. Sadr's militia took to the streets, and the Mahdi Army dug in around the Imam Ali shrine in Najaf, one of the holiest sites for Shiite Muslims; by August militiamen were shooting it out with the Marines in Najaf's streets and its vast cemetery, where generations of pious Shiites had sought burial so they could be close to Ali. 
 The 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit spearheaded the American attack, operating out of Othman's old base near Najaf. It was some of the most intense combat American forces had seen since the toppling of Saddam -- and the first major battle that pitted them against a Shiite militia. 
 Alarmed by the ragged state of the Iraqi troops, Gildroy drafted a damning memo and took the bold step that same August of going above her Marine superiors directly to a general whom she had barely heard of but who was in charge of training the Iraqi forces: David Petraeus. When Petraeus visited Najaf soon after, she followed up with a tough briefing in a tent outside the city. ''I was very candid with him about how frustrated we were,'' Gildroy recalled. ''I told him that the Iraqi soldiers had only five rounds of ammo per weapon, that there was no system in place to request more, that most of the soldiers did not have SAPI'' -- armor -- ''plates for their flak jackets, that there was no mechanism for us to buy food or water for the troops, that they did not even have a barracks to sleep in.''
 When it came time for the Marine unit to return home, and with Najaf more or less pacified, Gildroy agreed to stay behind to serve as Petraeus's go-to officer in the south. She teamed up with another Marine lieutenant, Seth Moulton, who gave a commencement address when he graduated from Harvard on the need for national service. He had commanded a rifle platoon on the march to Baghdad and was on his second Iraq tour. 
 Petraeus's training command was located in a section of the Green Zone named Phoenix Base, so the two Marine lieutenants became Team Phoenix. They worked a variety of assignments, including a stretch with Iraqi forces patrolling the Iran border, which they found distressingly wide open.
 As the war dragged on, Othman became a division commander, the Marine lieutenants became captains and the partnership between the Iraqis and the Americans deepened. Petraeus helped arrange for Othman's wife to be treated in Poland after she was stricken with cancer. During one bleak day, when a young marine whom Gildroy knew was shot and killed in Najaf, Othman led her to the small mosque near division headquarters for a moment of silent contemplation. When Gildroy decided to leave the Marines and apply to Harvard Business School, Othman wrote her a recommendation (in Arabic). 
 By early 2006, Gildroy and Moulton were out of the service. Gildroy was at Harvard. Moulton had finished a third tour in Iraq. He was working on a book about the need for national service and thinking about graduate school. But Iraq stayed with them; and the new Iraq he and Gildroy struggled so hard to build seemed to be falling apart. The violence between Sunnis and Shiites was spiraling, aggravated by the bombing in February 2006 of a cherished Shiite shrine in Samarra. Political moderates were losing influence, and corruption spread through the police and government ministries. A classified ''Index of Civil Conflict'' -- prepared by the United States Central Command, which oversaw military operations in the Middle East -- showed Iraq as edging toward ''chaos.''
 ''Things were going to hell in a handbasket,'' Moulton told me. ''When I left in 2005, people were complaining more and more about the militia problem, but at the same time there was a drawdown of American forces in the south, which was the real seat of power for the Iraqi government. I remember driving to Karbala in a convoy and being stopped by a supposed Iraqi police unit dressed in green uniforms. I e-mailed General Petraeus to ask if he knew who they were, and he did not know anything about it. It was another new militia, roaming freely.'' 
 Dismayed about the many missteps during the occupation, Moulton was interviewed for ''No End in Sight,'' a scathing documentary about the Bush administration's mistakes in planning the Iraq war. But he had not given up. In an op-ed article for The New York Times in September 2006, Moulton recounted the experience of running into the militia and argued that the United States needed to put aside withdrawal time lines, reverse the process of consolidating American forces at the large bases and do more to mentor the Iraqi military. The article was titled ''The Right Troops in the Right Places.''
 When the Bush administration announced in January 2007 that it would mount the surge with Petraeus in charge, it seemed to Moulton that the principles he wrote about in his op-ed article would be put into practice. Petraeus asked Moulton to join his staff, but Moulton did not want to be a staff officer. He and Gildroy did, however, begin to discuss reactivating Team Phoenix. 
 A week before Petraeus's confirmation hearing in Washington, Gildroy flew to Fort Leavenworth in Kansas, where she talked with him about a new mission for Team Phoenix. Moulton was looking to strengthen the team, but while a number of captains asked if they could join, Moulton had his eye on Alex Lemons, who served in his platoon on the march to Baghdad, had served three Iraq tours and lived in Salt Lake City. Lemons received his undergraduate degree from Westminster College in Utah, planning to get a doctorate in English literature and pursue a teaching career. But on Sept. 12, 2001, he enlisted in the Marines, passing up a chance to go to officer's school because he wanted to begin his service with the grunts. He was trained as a sniper and was in the thick of the fighting in Najaf, where he fell through the roof of a three-story building while setting up a shooting position, suffering severe injuries to his shoulder. Later, he served in Falluja.
 After rising to the rank of platoon sergeant and completing his four-year commitment, Lemons returned to Utah and helped his brother set up a skateboard company, Odeus Apparel. As more-grievously-wounded marines had priority for government-financed medical care, he used most of his personal savings to pay for an operation to repair his shoulder. Though Lemons was a noncommissioned officer, Moulton considered him to be in every respect his equal. Moulton invited Lemons to come see ''No End in Sight'' at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. The former marines hit the ski slopes the next day and talked about having another try in Iraq. 
 ''Ever since Falluja in 2004, I felt I had not accomplished my mission,'' Lemons told me not long ago. ''I was home, in the inactive reserves, and I still missed fighting in Iraq. When Seth talked to me about the team and the mission, I did not believe we could fix anything. It sounded suicidal at best. But this is my friend, and I will do anything to help him out.''
 There was a final piece of business. Even with four stars, Petraeus could not move military personnel around at will. The Marines had to scrounge through existing billets to deploy the new team. Gildroy and Moulton were reactivated and assigned to Iraq as a historian and a communications officer. Lemons went as a driver. Moulton, however, did most of the driving; Lemons was the gunner. 
 III. Powers That Be
 The goals of the surge against Sunni insurgents and Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia were political as well as military. The old strategy assumed that elections and the transfer of sovereignty to Iraqis would take the steam out of the insurgency and help the United States to manage with fewer and fewer troops. Iraqi politics, it assumed, would enable the military strategy.
 Petraeus's new approach turned that formula on its head. It postulated that a troop increase -- and a strategy that put a premium on protecting civilians -- would win over hesitant Iraqis, generate intelligence about the insurgents and give Iraqi leaders the confidence to turn away from their militias and private armies and work together. More than half of the American reinforcements were allocated to the regions surrounding Baghdad that Al Qaeda militants used to mount their car-bomb attacks, while the rest were distributed throughout the city. The theory was that once Al Qaeda was weakened, that would eliminate the rationale that Shiite militias like Sadr's Mahdi Army and the Badr Corps of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq were needed to protect the Shiite population. Breathing space would be created for political reconciliation. Military action would enable Iraqi politics.
 To encourage political change, the United States was working from the top down as well as bottom up. Before the surge, the White House had taken the measure of Maliki, a compromise choice among the Supreme Council and the Sadrists who was named prime minister precisely because his Dawa Party had no militia and thin popular support. (Later he broke with the Sadrists, thus becoming much more dependent on the Supreme Council.) Maliki often told American officials that he had a vision of partnership among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds. But Stephen Hadley, President Bush's national-security adviser, reported in a confidential memo on Nov. 8, 2006, that Maliki was having difficulty figuring out how to be a strong leader and -- as a leader of the Dawa Party, which was an underground movement during Saddam's day -- was ''naturally inclined to distrust new actors.'' 
 If Maliki broadened his political base, rose above sectarianism and moved against the Shiite militias, Hadley wrote, the United States should do what it could to give the Iraqi prime minister more control over Iraq's security forces and persuade other politicians to support him, including Sunnis and, notably, the Supreme Council, which had established itself as the most potent party in Maliki's coalition. 
 But even as it sought ways to support Maliki, the United States was also hedging its bets by working with tribes in Iraq's far-flung provinces. Before the surge, the American military had joined forces with Abdul Sattar Buzaigh al-Rishawi (known as Abu Risha) and other Sunni sheiks against Sunni insurgents. The additional American troops during the surge reinforced that effort and encouraged it to spread. The Iraqis called the tribal movement a Sahawa or Awakening. The Americans initially called the tribesmen ''concerned local citizens,'' but when translated into Arabic that came out something like ''worried Iraqis.'' So the name was changed to ''Sons of Iraq.'' 
 The Americans were working, in Sam Parker's terms, with both the ''powers that be'' and the ''powers that aren't.'' In theory, the efforts to buttress Maliki and to work with the tribes would eventually merge. Some of the Sons of Iraq would be incorporated into Maliki's security forces. Others would get jobs building the new Iraq.
 The prospect of provincial elections was expected to provide another opportunity for the ''powers that aren't,'' including the tribal movement, to work their way in. Many Sunnis were effectively disenfranchised by their decision to boycott previous votes, as were the many Shiites who were influenced by Sadr's ambivalent pronouncements. Other Iraqis also found themselves politically marginalized by a system that required them to vote for a party, not an individual. 
 The coming provincial elections are to be far more open and promise to be a significant step forward for democratic inclusion. Sunni tribes in Anbar, for example, see the vote as an opportunity to wrest control from the Iraqi Islamic Party, which currently represents Sunni interests in Baghdad. Sunnis in Nineveh, who make up a plurality of that province's electorate but chafe under a Kurdish-dominated provincial government, view the elections as an opportunity to redress an imbalance; so do Sunnis in Diyala Province, which has a Shiite governor. 
 But the provincial elections also represent a democratizing opportunity for many Shiite voters, who do not necessarily want to be represented by the ''powers that be.'' More than 500 politicians and parties have registered to participate in the provincial elections, including 40 in Basra alone. These represent a potential challenge to the Supreme Council and Dawa parties in Maliki's coalition, which have the backing of powerful politicians in Baghdad but have done a poor job of delivering services to the Iraqi public, even as the central government's coffers have filled as a result of high oil prices. 
 How fair those elections will be is the critical question. ''The provincial elections are very important because they have the potential to usher in new leadership that is not drawn from the former exiles,'' Joost Hiltermann, an expert on Iraq at the International Crisis Group, a nongovernmental organization, told me. ''The Supreme Council and Dawa have not excelled at governance at the local level. If they cannot prevent elections, and it is probably too late for that, they will try to delegitimize the Sadrists and control the process though the domination they have accumulated over the years at the local level. Dawa, for example, has used its control over the Iraqi Red Crescent to appoint local officials to make sure they bring out the vote.''
 Ryan Crocker, the American ambassador, told me: ''The big thing going forward is the improved security environment and political development that allows the parties and other actors to feel they have a fair shot at being part of the game. So essentially, how the elections are conducted and how they are perceived is important. Another very important issue is governmental capacity to deliver the goods. Iraqis know that the price of oil per barrel is changing.''
 Security and politics are, of course, closely intertwined. In Diwaniya, the reconstituted Team Phoenix would find out how much damage Shiite political infighting could do to Shiite security. 
 IV. Team Phoenix
 Team Phoenix was in Baghdad in August 2007 when the governor of Qadisiya Province and the provincial police chief were killed by a roadside bomb as they returned to Diwaniya from the funeral for a prominent sheik in a nearby town. Six days later the team flew to Camp Echo on Petraeus's helicopter to plan a counterinsurgency campaign to retake the city from the Mahdi Army. Before leaving, Petraeus told them to focus on the renegade militias and find a way to ''stab'' them ''in the heart.''
 The team already had a plan in mind, which was to apply the lessons of the Anbar Awakening. Soon after arriving in Baghdad in July 2007, the members of Team Phoenix had headed to Anbar to meet the local Sunni sheiks. Moulton had heard from numerous experts that the tribal engagement carried out in Anbar could not work in the south -- that the authority of Shiite tribal leaders was overshadowed by the Shiite religious leaders and diminished by Saddam Hussein's efforts to undermine and co-opt the Shiite tribes in the 1990s. But the team was not convinced. The Sunni mayor of Ramadi, Moulton told me, ''insisted that their problem with Al Qaeda was akin to the south's problem with Jaish al-Mahdi'' -- Sadr's Mahdi Army militia -- ''and that the tribes would rise up in the same way.'' 
 Indeed, independent of any efforts by Team Phoenix, Shiite tribal leaders had begun to network with the Sunni Anbar sheiks to discuss how they might bring more security to the south and enhance their own political clout. Maj. Gen. John Allen, who served as the second-highest-ranking American officer in Anbar in 2007 and early 2008, recalled how Shiite sheiks from neighboring Karbala Province visited Anbar for a tribal get-together. They chanted poetry and closed the session by posing before an Awakening flag: crossed scimitars, the scales of justice and a pot of coffee on a yellow field. There were other meetings. ''Their plea was, 'Help us to get organized and we can throw off this thing called the Mahdi Army, and we can get the tribal society dominant again in the south, and we can begin to bring social order to the south akin to the way Sunni tribes had brought social order back to Anbar Province,' '' Allen recalled. 
 Diwaniya had changed considerably since Team Phoenix's last stay, and for the worse. During the early months of the surge, in April 2007, the Americans sent troops to Diwaniya to try to wrest back control of the city, an operation dubbed Black Eagle. But after that brief effort, Diwaniya returned to Mahdi Army control and even became a staging ground for attacks on Camp Echo. The heaviest barrage occurred on July 2, 2007, when the militia fired rockets and mortars from three separate locations. More than 80 were fired, and some of the incoming rounds hit the Special Forces barracks, coming dangerously close to igniting ammunition stores. Two soldiers were injured by shrapnel, and most escaped the building with little more than their clothing. The fire was so accurate that the Special Forces were convinced the militiamen had help from inside the base. The coalition base was struck so often that a running joke had it that the camp was named after the mortar blasts that echoed through the compound each night. ''They set the time and place of the engagements,'' Dale Betz, the former commander of Special Forces at Camp Echo, told me. ''It was like we were the insurgents. The Mahdi militias were in control of the city.'' 
 Betz asked Othman's permission to call in an air strike to hit a target in the city, and the Iraqi general gave the go-ahead. An American warplane leveled a house used by a militia leader who Iraqi intelligence believed was supported by elements in Iran. But without enough troops to occupy the city, the only recourses were Special Forces raids and further air strikes. 
 The streets in Diwaniya were dangerous for the Iraqis, too. Fourteen of Othman's soldiers had been captured by the militia the previous year and shot in the head execution-style, and their trucks were set aflame. The grisly episode was documented in a video that a militia fighter took using his cellphone and which I saw during my visit to Camp Echo. The local situation had not improved much since. ''We used to hear about a killing episode every day,'' Baqer al-Shalan, a tribal leader, said. 
 Taking a page from counterinsurgency doctrine, Team Phoenix developed a plan to take Diwaniya back, neighborhood by neighborhood. Without surge forces, it would be what the military called an ''economy of force'' operation. A small combat outpost would be established in one part of the city and staffed by the three marines, a couple of platoons of Polish infantry, a platoon or two of Iraqi troops and the Iraqi police. After one neighborhood was secured, the coalition would move on to another. It was a variation of the ''oil spot'' theory, a counterinsurgency concept that was conceived and used toward the end of the Vietnam War: the coalition forces establish control over a ''spot'' in the city; the security they provide then spreads outward like oil. 
 The team briefed the Polish commander, Maj. Gen. Tadeusz Buk, on the idea. He immediately took to it, reasoning that he could justify the mission to a nervous Polish public at home by saying he was merely supporting Iraqi forces. (Once again, the concept lost something in translation. After being translated into Polish and then back to English it became known as ''Operation Oil Drop.'')
 On Oct. 2, the new mission began when a small group of Iraqi and coalition forces drove to the Nahda neighborhood in Diwaniya and occupied a youth center. It took several days before Army cranes arrived to install the blast walls to protect the compound from snipers and car bombs. The militia went after the new compound, firing mortars and heaving grenades over the walls. Two Americans were shot in the head as they stood in front of the building. The Poles began to talk about pulling back. Lemons used his sniper skills to improve the structure's defenses, instructing the Iraqis to man observation posts. Othman also delivered a cautionary word to the Poles. ''He told them, 'If you leave the town now, you would never be able to come back,' '' Lemons recalled. The Poles decided to stay. 
 The bigger problem was finding enough forces to make the oil spot spread. The group needed to find a way to keep control of the Nahda neighborhood while moving on to another. Unless they did, they risked repeating the mistakes of Black Eagle: they could clear, but could not hold. 
 Even before they moved into the Nahda compound, Team Phoenix wanted to complement the effort by reaching out to the Shiite tribes. Tribesmen would watch the roads and provide intelligence on the militias. The tribes that joined the watch program on the roads might also be able to volunteer the best of their guards as recruits for Othman's division, which was trying to form a new battalion. The tribes had endured or made their peace with Hussein but they were also more secular than the Baghdad parties and very apprehensive about encroachments by the Iranians. In keeping with the vision of a broader Awakening movement, Team Phoenix also hoped to bring the tribes, who had been largely marginalized, into the political system. 
 ''The system in Qadisiya was not an inclusive democracy,'' Gildroy told me. ''The Supreme Council controlled the governorship. The tribal movement was a way to break the incumbent parties' monopoly on power. If our end goal is democracy, this is a pretty big deal. The southern provincial governors that I dealt with would not shake my hand. They do not believe in secular government. They do not believe in a government that is not controlled by religion. The fact that every other man will shake my hand except for the power brokers says that we are backing a very extremist regime.''
 Othman, who was, after all, a Shiite sheik, advised Team Phoenix how to begin its tribal initiative: with Sheik Taklef al-Jabour, the leader locally of the Jabouri tribe, which has both Sunni and Shiite members throughout Iraq. Taklef was strikingly different from Othman. Unlike the monogamous and abstemious Othman, he had multiple wives and was not averse to a drink. Some of his tribesmen had a reputation for robbing travelers who ventured through their area. But Taklef was secular and felt marginalized by the local governor, a stalwart in Abdul Aziz al-Hakim's Islamic Supreme Council party. 
 Meeting in Othman's office, the marines began to outline the idea. The discussion devolved into haggling over Taklef's commission until Team Phoenix simplified the proposition: The tribe would be paid $1,167 per kilometer each month to watch the road and keep it clear of improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.'s, as the roadside bombs are known. The sheik would be in charge of distributing the funds and could hire as many tribesmen as he wished. To guard against infiltration by militias, the road guardians would be fingerprinted and have their retinas scanned, with the information entered into an intelligence database. 
 Taklef pondered the offer for a few days, then threw in his lot with the coalition. When the deal was struck, Team Phoenix explained that they expected a substantial decrease in the number of roadside bombs on his stretch of road. The Americans said they would provide him with a record of bomb explosions on the road so he could judge what would constitute a reduction. ''Oh, I know the I.E.D. history,'' he said with a wink. 
 After word of the program spread, dozens of sheiks began to approach Othman to get in on it. The next step was to import the program from the approach roads to the streets of the city. The sheiks were less of a force inside the city, so Team Phoenix put out the word that patrol volunteers would be paid slightly less than the pay scale for an Iraqi Army soldier. To protect the police's prerogative, it was decided that the citizen-watch groups inside the city would not be armed. They would be equipped with radios to contact the police and would be outfitted with orange reflector belts for identification.
 When the team took a squad of Iraqi soldiers to town on Nov. 14 to sign the first volunteers, hundreds of men of all ages showed up, and a near riot broke out; men who had not had a regular paycheck for years clamored for the jobs. In all, 268 volunteers were hired. Several weeks later they set up command bunkers and checkpoints and decorated them with Iraqi flags. Posters of Moktada al-Sadr were taken down and some new shops opened. Nonetheless, Lemons recalled, this was just a start. ''You could patrol a mere five blocks north, east, south or west of Nahda and find the same poverty, violence, fear and hopelessness that had plagued Nahda only a few weeks earlier,'' he said.
 To reinforce security in Diwaniya, Othman requested additional troops and mounted a major, and fairly effective, Iraqi military operation named Lion Pounce.
 V. Game Over
 On Dec. 2, 2007, there was a meeting of the Ministerial Committee for National Security, a top-level body in Baghdad that Maliki and senior American officials used to coordinate policy. One agenda item was the Sons of Iraq, of which there were now more than 100,000, largely as a result of the Sunni Awakening. As the Americans saw it, the program was integral to the turnaround in Anbar and helped improve security in Abu Ghraib, Yusufiya, Diyala and even Baghdad. They wanted the Maliki government to integrate at least 20,000 and ideally 30,000 of the recruits into the Iraqi Army and police and find ways to employ the rest. 
 Maliki appeared to accept as many as 103,000 Sons of Iraq but insisted there could be no tribal Awakening in the Shiite south, his own power base. ''The prime minister said, 'Look, it is different in the south,' '' recalled a senior American official who asked not to be named, because of the sensitivity of the subject. '' 'There is not the same security imperative there. The Iraqi security forces can take on the security threat that comes from militias. It is not a question of the tribes being actively in bed with the militia. There is a different security dynamic. The Awakening would be a political movement. That is not what the coalition should be doing.' I think he did not want us to be creating political movements to challenge him. I have got to say there is some merit to that.''
 In effect, Maliki had forced the Americans to choose between supporting the ''powers that be'' and the ''powers that aren't'' -- at least on the question of an American-brokered Shiite Awakening. Securing Maliki's support for the overall effort was the top priority for Ambassador Ryan Crocker and General Petraeus. American officials accepted the prime minister's decision, calculating, or hoping, that Iraq's security forces would be able to establish control in the south and that the Shiite tribes would find a way to pursue their political ambitions when the provincial elections were held. 
 The high-level Baghdad deliberations stayed under wraps. But in late December, Gildroy received a call from General Buk, the Polish commander. Othman had called to say that the governor, Hamid Musa al-Khudari, had ordered the Diwaniya Awakening program shut down. 
 ''We are fighting this?'' Buk asked. Gildroy said she and Lemons would meet the next day in Othman's office to clear up the misunderstanding. After all, Khudari had earlier accepted the operation. There had been many bumps in the road in Iraq, and this looked like just one more. 
 But at the meeting it quickly became clear this was no mere bump. Khudari was a longtime member of the Islamic Supreme Council party who left the country during Hussein's war with Iran and spent almost two decades there. He was a conspicuously strict Islamist who refused even to have his photo taken with women. He had already had his differences with the Americans. When American and Polish troops distributed fertilizer to local tribesmen, Khudari ordered the police to seize one shipment so it could be passed out by his provincial administration. (Othman sent Iraqi soldiers in Humvees to take the fertilizer back.) These were battles for political influence and control of the province, and the governor did not intend to lose out to any local Awakening.
 As the meeting got under way, Khudari began to rail against the neighborhood-watch program, claiming it might be influenced by militia. Gildroy responded that rampant unemployment was more likely to breed mischief. To the marines' surprise, Othman did not come to the project's defense. He had been involved in the negotiations with the sheiks, but he appeared to have new orders from Baghdad, which he would not confide. Gildroy later talked to an American officer in Baghdad and was told that the decision had been made at senior levels of the Iraqi and American governments. It represented a balancing of interests; and it would have to stand. 
 As the saga unfolded, a compromise of sorts was reached. The tribal guardians would continue to protect the roads, but the neighborhood watch would be disbanded in Diwaniya itself. When Khudari asked for a record of the recruits in the city, Gildroy built a small fire at Camp Echo and burned the list. She thought it might otherwise be used as an enemies list. 
 The marines went from checkpoint to checkpoint, informing puzzled Iraqis that they were out of business. They assured them that they would at least be paid as promised for their initial three months of service. At first the governor would only let them use a soccer field for the disbursements. I was with Gildroy when she went to make the last payment in March of this year. She grabbed a plastic bag full of $20 bills and climbed into an Iraqi Army Humvee for the drive to town. For several hours, I watched as a long line of young men in T-shirts and sandals made their way to an Iraqi police station, inked their names in a ledger, pocketed their modest payments and shuffled off. Few seemed to have any idea what they might do next. 
 Joining the police was not an option, according to Haidar, a 24-year-old who was trying to support an extended family. The typical bribe for securing a job in the city's police force, he said, was an astronomical $700. 
 VI. After the Surge
 In the ensuing months, Maliki made a number of bold moves to build up his authority. With little advance notice to American officials in Baghdad, he dispatched thousands of troops to Basra and the port of Umm Qasr, the main loading point for Iraq's oil exports. After some initial confusion, the military operation succeeded, albeit with substantial assistance from the Americans, who carried out air strikes, provided military advisers and helped with planning and logistics. American intelligence later reported that some of the militias decided not to fight based on the (erroneous) rumor that 4,000 American soldiers were headed south. 
 In Sadr City, the Iraqi military also prevailed after two American battalions occupied the southernmost districts, firing numerous Hellfire missiles and carrying out Predator strikes. The Iraqis were able to negotiate a peaceful occupation of the rest of Sadr City, but the hard military groundwork had been laid by the Americans.
 The Iraqi government billed the operations as a move to extend its sovereignty to lawless areas, and there is much truth to that. But some analysts also said they served another purpose: Maliki and his Supreme Council allies were not going to go into the provincial and national elections until the large population centers had been reclaimed from the Sadrists and other Shiite militias.
 After years of hand-wringing over Maliki's inability to govern, American officials were cheered that he managed to pull the levers of power and even take on some of the Shiite militias. Iraq, in the words of the scholar Vali Nasr, had gone from being a failed state to a fragile one. In Basra, Maliki had reached out to the Tamim tribe and even temporarily employed them in the fight. The relative peace in the south, American officials in Baghdad asserted, showed that Iraq's forces were able to achieve a measure of security without the help of an Awakening movement. 
 Maliki's assertiveness was on display again when he told Senator Barack Obama last month that he would like to see American combat forces depart by the end of 2010. Such statements were made with an eye to the provincial elections, as well as to next year's vote for a new Iraqi Parliament. They reflected an exaggerated sense of what the Iraqi forces had been able to achieve on their own -- and caught the American command by surprise. 
 With more than 500 parties or candidates already registered for the provincial vote, the real test of Iraqi politics will be the fairness of the votes and the ability of the government to deliver services to its citizens, the latter a sore issue for many Iraqis. Ultimately, all politics is local. In Qadisiya, there remained bitter feelings about the abandonment of tribal empowerment. Sheik Taklef told me that the governor and the Supreme Council had done little to improve services in the city. ''These people don't serve the interests of the Iraqis,'' he said. ''They wanted everything to go through them.'' Muhammad Abdul Amir al-Shalan, sheik of the al-Aghrah tribe, agreed, saying, ''There is no big local support for the governor and the Supreme Council. The services are worse now than they were before them. They are not competent. People are no longer supporting them.''
 But Khudari, the governor, casts the sheiks as little more than braggarts profiteering off the Iraqi Army's success. ''We don't think that there is a necessity to form Awakening councils here,'' he said. ''The tribes didn't confront the terrorists; the local and federal governments did.''
 Othman insisted that he had not worried about political pressure from Khudari but that it became impossible to push harder for the Awakening program when even the American command did not put its full weight behind the venture. Gildroy reported, however, that in her farewell meeting with Othman, he did seem to be wondering about how well he really fit into the new Iraq. 
 On July 16, Qadisiya Province was officially transferred to Iraqi government control. The American Embassy issued a statement congratulating the government but hinting at the tensions below the surface. ''The United States and Multinational Force-Iraq congratulate the Government of Iraq on this important milestone,'' the statement said. ''The provincial and military leadership in Qadisiya will have to work cooperatively in order to attain the sustainable security necessary for long-term economic prosperity.'' 
 There were tensions on the American side, too. The perspective of the Marines differed markedly from that of the American officials in Baghdad. The Marines saw the tribes as more secular than the fundamentalists in the religious parties. They were less confident that the provincial elections would be genuinely fair; and they were worried that efforts to buttress political stability appeared to have trumped the idea of democracy. After Diwaniya, Team Phoenix made trips to Sadr City and Basra: they concluded that much of the security there was the result of political deals, not the decisive application of force by the Iraqi state. And they wondered if those deals would hold. 
 Lemons, who is back at work at his skateboard company, had strong and unsettled feelings about his time in Diwaniya. ''I am still trying to figure out the lesson,'' he said. ''Maybe the lesson is there are limits to what we can and cannot do in Iraq. I've tried separating myself from our work with the Sahawa'' -- Awakening -- ''and I can't. I can't ever face the tribes I worked with again because I broke a lot of promises. Those promises don't mean much to anyone outside Diwaniya or to an overall strategy for this war, but I thought these were the promises my own government had sent me year after year to pursue. So while I would deploy again for my Marines and my Iraqi Army comrades, I don't want to go to Iraq again if this is the way we do business.''
 Gildroy, who is once again a civilian and who left Diwaniya vowing never to return, says she still believes Petraeus's counterinsurgency strategy is producing results. ''This war is critical to our national-security interests and has had an impact on Al Qaeda. I know we are creating a buffer zone,'' she said. ''We will not create a well-functioning democracy in Iraq, but we need to leave the region and Iraq in a stronger position than we went in both for their own security and to avoid another terrorist attack on America. I would do whatever General Petraeus asked or needed. I trust him and his character with my life.''
 Moulton, who is headed to graduate school this year at Harvard for a joint program in business and government, said the episode illuminates both the importance of the south for the politicians in Baghdad and the brittleness of many of the gains. ''Together with some brave young Polish and Iraqi soldiers, we did a lot to improve life in Diwaniya,'' he said. ''I can't deny that. People were afraid to leave their houses when we arrived. Iraqis were crying when we left. But so much of what we did fell apart so quickly. It shows how fragile everything is today in Iraq. For all that we put into it, not least of all a year of our lives, I don't know if any of it will last.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scrap of a poster in Sadr City with a picture of the Shiite cleric Moktada al--Sadr. (pg. 34)
Tribal Arts: Maj. Gen. Othman Ali Farhood, the commander of Iraq's Eighth Army division. He served under Saddam Hussein, but became an effective partner to U.S. military officer's in southern Iraq. (pg. 37)
Night Life: An Iraqi platoon and two U.S. Marine escorts on the virtually empty streets of Diwaniya during a patrol in March. (pg. 38)
Layoffs: Ann Gildroy, center, a Marine captain and member of Team Phoenix, prepares a final payment in March for Iraqi volunteers after an agreement to maintain a neighborhood-watch program in Diwaniya fell apart. (pg. 40)
 Down to the Wire: Members of the failed neighborhood-watch program wait to be paid at a police station in Diwaniya. (pg. 43)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN LOWY/VII NETWORK, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (62%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



89 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Era With No Name

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS THOMPSON. 
Nicholas Thompson is a senior editor at Wired and a fellow at the New America Foundation.

 BODY:
AMERICA BETWEEN THE WARS 
 From 11/9 to 9/11: The Misunderstood Years Between the Fall of the Berlin Wall and the Start of the War on Terror. 
 By Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier. 
 412 pp. PublicAffairs. $27.95. 
 Bill Clinton desperately wanted a pithy slogan to encapsulate his foreign policy. But nothing worked. ''Post cold-war era'' was uninspiring. ''Democratic enlargement'' sounded like an unwelcome medical condition. ''Age of hope'' was too like the title of a New Age album. ''We can litanize and analyze all we want, but until people can say it in a phrase, we're sunk,'' he snapped at his advisers in the fall of 1994. 
 The president never succeeded. ''Containment'' of the Soviet Union described policy through the cold war, helping to make a mortal threat seem manageable. For the past seven years, ''war on terror'' has made a manageable threat seem mortal. The years between the fall of the Berlin Wall and 9/11 remain nameless.
 In ''America Between the Wars,'' Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier argue that anonymity doesn't equal irrelevance. The 12-year period may now look like a patternless jumble -- Iraq, Sudan, Haiti, Nafta, Rwanda, Seattle, Kosovo -- but we can learn much from it. ''The challenges confronting America,'' the authors write, ''did not start on 9/11. They began when the cold war ended a decade earlier.''
 This statement isn't technically accurate. Islamic terrorists, for example, blew up buildings before 1989. But the general point is a good one.
 For example, George W. Bush's unilateralism is clearly rooted in a 1992 policy paper written by the staff of Dick Cheney, who was secretary of defense at the time. More interestingly, Madeleine Albright may have encouraged its growth with her invocations of the ''indispensable nation.'' Russia's current antipathy toward the United States surely derives partly from the decision to expand NATO well east of the old Iron Curtain. America's military presence in Saudi Arabia after Operation Desert Storm inspired Osama bin Laden's first fatwa. 
 Both authors served in the Clinton administration State Department, but they also show a faint nostalgia for the first Bush presidency. George H. W. Bush didn't seek undeserved credit when the Berlin Wall came down, and he genuinely tried to build international consensus. He even tried (unsuccessfully) to persuade Cuba to support the first Iraq war. The current president may haunt his father's legacy. But if the elder Bush could run again against Bill Clinton -- busy much of this year dismantling his own reputation -- it's not clear whom the authors would vote for.
 The book's flaw is its familiarity. There are no surprising heroes or villains; there are few surprising stories or scenes. Though Chollet and Goldgeier have conducted valuable interviews with many of the key players, little will feel new to people who read the newspapers carefully during the 1990s. 
 To take one example, while describing the Asian financial meltdown of the mid-1990s, they write, ''Whether the critics were correct'' that Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and his colleagues ''had caused the economic disaster, or whether Time was right that they had saved the world, there was no denying that these unelected American officials were shaping the globalization debate.'' That's true, but we knew so then. And after 10 pages of lucid discussion and description, we don't know whether Chollet and Goldgeier think Rubin saved the world or set it up for future ruin -- a question with profound implications for today and tomorrow. 
 Straight history like this is valuable, particularly for an oft-neglected era. But as hinted at by the ambiguous title, the book doesn't fulfill its promise of reinterpretation. ''America Between the Wars,'' after all, could describe any peaceful era since independence. 
 At the end, Chollet and Goldgeier seem to be in the same place as President Clinton in 1994. Yes, a lot happened in this era. But no one is exactly sure what it meant -- or what it should be called.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WRITERS (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); ARMED FORCES (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); DICK CHENEY (59%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (92%); KOSOVO (79%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



90 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Shortfall Renews Talk of Congestion Pricing as Revenue Source

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
The financial crisis at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is breathing new life into an idea the Legislature rejected just months ago: congestion pricing. 
 Facing a projected $900 million budget shortfall next year, the authority has proposed increasing transit fares twice in the coming three years, and has asked the city and state governments to provide hundreds of millions in additional aid. 
 But city and state officials, struggling with their own multibillion-dollar deficits, have urged the authority to cut its spending and find alternative sources of revenue. They have said they are counting on a commission led by Richard Ravitch, a former transportation authority chairman, to devise a plan to rescue the agency from its deepening financial hole.
 Enter congestion pricing. Asked in a recent interview how seriously the commission was considering elements of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's traffic revenue plan to provide money that could bail out the authority, Mr. Ravitch replied, ''Very.'' 
 ''I'm looking at a whole series of possible sources of revenue,'' he said. ''It would be inappropriate to comment on that except that I have said before publicly that we would certainly go down and look at congestion pricing, and every member of the commission knows it.''
 At the heart of the changing dynamic are the politics of transit fare increases. Assembly Democrats killed a scaled-down version of Mr. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan in April when they refused to bring it to a floor vote, even though the plan would have made the transportation authority eligible for $360 million in federal assistance. 
 That plan would have charged drivers $8 to enter a congestion zone in Manhattan south of 60th Street during peak hours. The revenues, projected to be more than $500 million annually, would have gone toward mass transit improvements. 
 Now, the authority is proposing raising transit fares and bridge and tunnel tolls next year and again in early 2011 to help close huge shortfalls in its operating budget. It has said it may have to raise fares every two years after that to balance its books. In addition, the agency is facing a projected deficit of $15 billion to $20 billion in its forthcoming five-year capital plan. Transit riders are a powerful constituency, and given the strong political pressure to avoid, or at least minimize, fare hikes, proponents of congestion pricing are hopeful that Democrats in the State Assembly will be forced to reconsider it. 
 Even some of the most ardent foes of congestion pricing acknowledge that the current problems seem to be reinvigorating the debate, though they wonder why that idea -- and not other potential revenue sources -- gets all the chatter. 
 ''Clearly I think that on many levels of the political class, this has support that other taxes, for example, the millionaires' tax, doesn't,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who was a leader in opposing the plan. He was referring to a Democratic proposal, opposed by Gov. David A. Paterson, to raise taxes on the wealthy.
 ''It's an issue of fundamental fairness,'' Mr. Brodsky added. ''The millionaires' tax raises more revenue solely from the super rich. Yet the political class in New York City, the mayor's office being the head of it, comes back with congestion pricing again.''
 Mayor Bloomberg has said that he sees no alternative. ''Congestion pricing will come, in New York and lots of other cities, because it is the only way where you were going to do the two things that you need to do: reduce people driving and find money for mass transit,'' the mayor told reporters at the National Conference of State Legislatures in New Orleans last week.
 ''Unless the commission, which is actually made up of some very smart people, unless they can discover the fountain of youth, I think that that's exactly what is going to come out of it,'' Mr. Bloomberg added. 
 The transportation authority's deepening financial troubles, combined with those of the city and the state, have set up a particularly difficult choice for the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, whose constituents in Lower Manhattan would be hit by the fare increases.
 Mr. Silver never publicly came out against congestion pricing, but he yielded to legislators outside Manhattan and in the suburbs by not bringing it to the floor.
 Mr. Silver did strongly criticize the proposed transit increases last week, as did the mayor and the governor. But he declined to comment for this article except to say, through a spokesman, that he had ''the highest regard for Richard Ravitch, and we await the recommendations.''
 Earlier this year, when the Assembly Democrats advanced the so-called millionaires' tax, which would have added one percentage point to the income tax rate of New Yorkers making more than $1 million a year, they described it as a solution to the authority's impending fiscal crisis. The Democrats estimated that the plan would provide more than $1.5 billion for mass transit and transportation projects. 
 The proposal died in the face of opposition from the mayor, the governor and the Republican-controlled State Senate. And apart from a few grumblings from Mr. Silver and state Democrats, it has seldom been mentioned again. 
 Assemblyman Rory I. Lancman, a Queens Democrat who opposed congestion pricing, said he would be surprised if the Ravitch commission proposed an idea that had been so roundly rejected by the Assembly. ''If ever there was a dead horse that was flogged, flogged and flogged again, it was congestion pricing.''
 After all, he added, ''I don't think that when we rejected congestion pricing, we were unaware that the M.T.A. had financial problems.''
 In his and Mr. Brodsky's view, congestion pricing would fall well short of rescuing the agency while burdening a narrow slice of mostly middle-class drivers from outside Manhattan.
 But stimulating the belief that it could re-emerge is the makeup of the Ravitch commission.
 Mr. Ravitch, who is expected to release a final report in December, was a known supporter of congestion pricing before being named to head the panel. The panel also includes Mark Page, the mayor's budget director; Laura Anglin, the governor's budget director; Elliot G. Sander, the authority's executive director and a strong supporter of congestion pricing; Peter Goldmark, director of the Climate and Air program for the Environmental Defense Fund, a group that strongly backed the plan; and Douglas Durst, a major developer whose family foundation provided financial support to the congestion pricing campaign. 
 Some analysts suggest that the Ravitch report, if it proposes congestion pricing, could provide a level of political cover to Assembly Democrats to support elements of the traffic plan, particularly if they do not have to vote on a plan until after the fall election. Mayor Bloomberg appeared to echo that view last week. 
 ''I think the politics of New York State are such that they will not do anything until after the election,'' he said. ''In fact, I believe the Ravitch commission was encouraged -- I don't know if they were told -- but there's an understanding they will be coming back, unfortunately, not before the next election.'' 
 Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler said that if a new effort to push the plan was undertaken in the near future, ''the mechanism would have to be the Ravitch commission, because the administration isn't going to mount another campaign for it.''
 Even if that happens, Mr. Brodsky, for one, said he didn't believe it stood a better chance this time. ''I think it goes nowhere,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008



91 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: An Internal Wiki That's Not Classified

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
IN the past, said Stacie R. Hankins, a special assistant at the United States Embassy in Rome, when the ambassador prepared to meet an Italian political figure, the staff would e-mail a memo about the meeting and attach biographies of those who would be attending to be printed out.
 Today, she said, they still produce the memo, but ''now they attach a link to the Diplopedia article'' -- Diplopedia being a wiki, open to the contributions of all who work in the State Department. The ambassador, Ronald P. Spogli, frequently reads the biographies on his BlackBerry on the way to the meeting. 
 The advantages are obvious, in efficiency and in saving paper, but it has required a leap of faith, too. For, theoretically at least, anyone at the State Department could have edited the biographies Mr. Spogli was reading -- unlike traditional resources. 
 In addition to reference material like the 200 biographies of Italian political and business leaders, the more than 4,400 Diplopedia articles reflect the range of the staff's concerns -- among popular articles are high-minded titles like ''Foreign Affairs Professional Reading List'' and mundane ones like ''Building Pass.''
 ''It's grass-roots technology in a top-down organization,'' said Eric M. Johnson of the State Department's Office of eDiplomacy in Washington, who recently gave a talk about Diplopedia at Wikipedia's annual conference in Alexandria, Egypt. 
 Since it was introduced in 2006, Mr. Johnson said, Diplopedia has had impressive growth. There are 1,000 registered users, he said, 650,000 total page views and lately 20,000 new page views a week, he said of the site, which contains no classified information but is not available to the general public. ''It is one of the most popular sites in the State Department, other than getting your pay information,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 But he also was quick to put those numbers in perspective: there are 1.8 million cable messages a year within the department, 1.5 billion e-mail messages a year, 1,000 public and internal Web sites.
 Even so, success to Mr. Johnson is defined not only by what can be found on Diplopedia but also what cannot. There have been no ''flame wars,'' he said, that is, mindless arguments over the phrasing in an article, and no pages that have needed to be deleted or locked down.
 What if someone creates disinformation or vandalism? Mr. Johnson was asked in Egypt -- a not-infrequent question when the topic of wikis comes up. He pointed out that unlike Wikipedia, Diplopedia does not allow anonymous contributors, so bad actors could be tracked down. He then observed, ''There are plenty of ways to commit career suicide; wikis are just the newest one.''
 There was a larger point to bringing his message to Wikimania 2008, as the annual conference is called: if wikis can work at the State Department, with its fabled bureaucracy and attention to protocol and word choice, they can work anywhere. 
 There certainly is a culture of collaborative writing at the State Department, Mr. Johnson acknowledged: memos are drafted, massaged, passed up the chain for comments and then approved. But this form of collaboration is based on the notion that the more people who read something, the less chance it will be candid. Wikis, by contrast, are collaborative only in retrospect -- someone has to be prepared to be the first to write something, and deal with having those words changed by a complete stranger.
 Mr. Johnson said his office occasionally gets calls from new contributors: ''People will say, 'I have something I want to post; I want to check before I do it.' And we say, no, no, put it up.''
 The decision to embrace wikis is part of a changing ethic at the department, from a ''need to know culture'' to a ''need to share culture,'' said Daniel Sheerin, deputy director of eDiplomacy, which was created in 2003. ''This is a technological manifestation of a policy difference,'' he said, a change he dated to when Colin L. Powell was secretary of state.
 The eDiplomacy office also supports internal blogs at the department. It sent trainers to the embassy in Rome, for example, to teach the staff how to use Diplopedia. Since the training, Ms. Hankins said, the embassy has taken to it quickly, though the ambassadorial staff in Berlin is trying to surpass its biography total.
 ''There is definitely a learning curve of -- I can't believe I'm saying this -- of my generation,'' said Ms. Hankins, 37. ''I like computers, but I wasn't a big Wikipedia person.''
 The advantage of Diplopedia, she said, isn't necessarily the ease of creating new material, but the ease in finding information. ''The political section used to keep biographies on political people, and the economics people kept biographies on economics people,'' she said. ''It was not always up to date. You didn't always know what the other had.''
 The practical information, likewise, is material that was floating around the halls of the State Department, but not typically written down.
 ''Not to resort to cliches, but it demonstrates the long tail effect,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''A lot of things are not things that you would put on a traditional Web site. If someone directed a desk officer to create an article, it would not be about how to order lunch. That might seem trivial -- but getting food into the main State Department building is not an easy task.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: YOUR DIPLOPEDIA AT WORK: The following is a sampling of items on a page of the Department of State's internal Wiki labelled: ''A list in progress of State jargon, metonyms and hackneyed phrases -- please add to it:'' DAR-worthy: An item that your office director might think should be brought to the attention of the front office in a short, pithy summary as a Daily Activity Report (DAR) item. Also Weekly Activity Report - WAR-worthy. Have a run at it: To attempt to persuade a skeptical individual of a policy objective. The Line: The term representing members of the Executive Secretariat Staff. OBE'd: Overtaken by events -- i.e., no longer relevant. Optics: The way an action will be perceived publicly. Paper: This noun in the singular is used to refer to any kind of memo, checklist or other written product produced for readers in the Front Office of 7th floor. Protect for: To watch for communication for another. One Embassy can protect for another whose cables are down, for instance, or a person can protect for a colleague who, for instance, may not log on very often. Tasker: A defined work product is usually needed, usually in written form, by a defined deadline. Example: A response to an Inspector General report recommendation. Often in a predefined format dictated by the task and request. The Watch: Members of the State Department Operations Center. Wheels up: The exact time of departure of an important person like the Secretary from one location to another. Think airplane wheels leaving the runway. (Source: Department of State) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); VANDALISM (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); ITALY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



92 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Housing Lenders Fear Bigger Wave of Loan Defaults

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The first wave of Americans to default on their home mortgages appears to be cresting, but a second, far larger one is quickly building.
 Homeowners with good credit are falling behind on their payments in growing numbers, even as the problems with mortgages made to people with weak, or subprime, credit are showing their first, tentative signs of leveling off after two years of spiraling defaults.
 The percentage of mortgages in arrears in the category of loans one rung above subprime, so-called alternative-A mortgages, quadrupled to 12 percent in April from a year earlier. Delinquencies among prime loans, which account for most of the $12 trillion market, doubled to 2.7 percent in that time.
 The mortgage troubles have been exacerbated by an economy that is still struggling. Reports last week showed another drop in home prices, slower-than-expected economic growth and a huge loss at General Motors. On Friday, the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate in July climbed to a four-year high. 
 While it is difficult to draw precise parallels among various segments of the mortgage market, the arc of the crisis in subprime loans suggests that the problems in the broader market may not peak for another year or two, analysts said. 
 Defaults are likely to accelerate because many homeowners' monthly payments are rising rapidly. The higher bills come as home prices continue to decline and banks tighten their lending standards, making it harder for people to refinance loans or sell their homes. Of particular concern are ''alt-A'' loans, many of which were made to people with good credit scores without proof of their income or assets. 
 ''Subprime was the tip of the iceberg,'' said Thomas H. Atteberry, president of First Pacific Advisors, a investment firm in Los Angeles that trades mortgage securities. ''Prime will be far bigger in its impact.''
 In a conference call with analysts last month, James Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said he expected losses on prime loans at his bank to triple in the coming months and described the outlook for them as ''terrible.'' 
 Delinquencies on mortgages tend to peak three to five years after loans are made, said Mark Fleming, the chief economist at First American CoreLogic, a research firm. Not surprisingly, subprime loans from 2005 appear closer to the end of defaults than those made in 2007, for which default rates continue to rise steeply.
 ''We will hit those points in a few years, and that will help in many ways,'' Mr. Fleming said, referring to the loans made later in the housing boom. ''We just have to survive through this part of the cycle.''
 Data on securities backed by subprime mortgages show that 8.41 percent of loans from 2005 were delinquent by 90 days or more or in foreclosure in June, up from 8.35 percent in May, according to CreditSights, a research firm with offices in New York and London. By contrast, 16.6 percent of 2007 loans were troubled in June, up from 15.8 percent.
 Some of that reflects basic math. Over the years, some loans will be paid off as homeowners sell or refinance, and some homes will be foreclosed upon and sold. That reduces the number of loans from those earlier years that could default. Also, since the credit market seized up last year, lenders have become much more conservative and have stopped making most subprime loans and cut back on many other popular mortgages. 
 The resetting of rates on adjustable mortgages, which was a big fear of many analysts in 2006 and 2007, has become less problematic because the short-term interest rates to which many of those loans are tied have fallen significantly as the Federal Reserve has lowered rates. The recent federal tax rebates and efforts to modify more loans have also helped somewhat, analysts say.
 What will sting borrowers more than rising interest rates, analysts say, is having to pay interest and principal every month after spending several years paying only interest or sometimes even less than that. Such loan terms were popular during the boom with alt-A and prime borrowers and appeared appealing while home prices were rising and interest rates were low. 
 But now, some borrowers could see their payments jump 50 percent or more, and they may not be able to sell their properties for as much as they owe.
 Prime and alt-A borrowers typically had a five- or seven-year grace period before payments toward principal were required. By contrast, subprime loans had a two-to-three-year introductory period. That difference partly explains the lag in delinquencies between the two types of loans, said David Watts, an analyst with CreditSights.
 ''More delinquencies look like they are on the horizon because so few of them have reset,'' Mr. Watts said about alt-A mortgages.
 The wave of foreclosures is still rising in states like California, where many homeowners turned to creative mortgages during the boom. From April to June, mortgage companies filed 121,000 notices of default in California, up nearly 7 percent from the first quarter and more than twice as many as in the second quarter of 2007, according to DataQuick, a real estate data firm based in La Jolla, Calif. The firm said the median age of the loans increased to 26 months from 16 months a year earlier.
 The mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which own or guarantee nearly half of all mortgages, are trying to stem that tide. Last week, they said they would pay more to the mortgage servicing companies that they hire to modify delinquent loans and avoid foreclosures. 
 Delinquencies in prime and alt-A loans are particularly challenging for banks because they hold more such loans on their books than they do subprime mortgages. Downey Financial, which owns a savings bank that operates in California and Arizona, recently reported that 11.2 percent of its loans were delinquent at the end of June, a big increase from the 6.1 percent that were past due at the end of last year.
 The bank's troubles stem from its $6.2 billion portfolio of so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages, which allow borrowers to pay less than the interest owed on their mortgage in the early years. The unpaid interest is added to the principal due on the loan, so over time borrowers can owe more than the initial loan amount. Eventually, when loans grow by 10 percent or 15 percent, the borrowers are required to start paying both the interest and principal due.
 Many borrowers who got these loans during the boom had good credit scores, but many of them owe more than their homes are worth. Analysts believe that many will not be able to or want to make higher payments.
 ''The wave on the prime side has lagged the wave on the subprime side,'' said Rod Dubitsky, head of asset-backed research at Credit Suisse. ''The reset of option ARM loans is a big event that will drive the timing of delinquencies.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mortgage Troubles Spread: In the last few months, delinquencies and foreclosures in subprime mortgages have started to slow. But defaults on alternative-A and prime loans, which make up a much bigger part of the market, are still rising. (Sources: CreditSights
 First American Loan Performance)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (53%); CORELOGIC INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%); CLGX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



93 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Charges and Closed Shops Rattle Brooklyn Heights

BYLINE: By J. COURTNEY SULLIVAN and AMANDA M. FAIRBANKS

 BODY:
Amy Francisco, a lawyer and aspiring screenwriter, had grown accustomed to spending evenings at the Wine Bar in Brooklyn Heights, where she could sit at an outdoor table and write in her notebook.
 But on Wednesday, she came home from work to find the Wine Bar closed down. Over the previous two days, three other businesses at the same intersection of Henry and Cranberry Streets had also abruptly shut down: the Blue Pig ice cream parlor; Oven, a pizzeria; and the Busy Chef, a prepared-foods market.
 Nearly 50 employees had been put out of work, and residents were reeling. ''It really is a loss on many levels, not only for me, personally, but for the whole neighborhood,'' Ms. Francisco said. Yet unlike the many small, well-liked New York businesses that become casualties of impossible rent increases or the slowing economy, these establishments collapsed amid a swirl of accusations, unpaid bills and the arrest of the affable young man who managed them. 
 The stretch of Henry Street from Clark to Middagh Streets has long been known for its ever-changing array of storefronts, and the intersection of Henry and Cranberry is notoriously tough on shops and restaurants, so much so that some call it ''the cursed corner.''
 Many thought that the curse had finally been lifted when the Wine Bar and the Busy Chef took up residence at the beginning of this year on either side of Cranberry Street, with the Blue Pig and Oven operating next to the Busy Chef. All four places were managed by Daniel Kaufman, 34, who told employees he was a part owner and who was known to neighbors as Chef Dan. 
 Yet while the new establishments drew sizable crowds and seemed to have a promising future, there were disturbing rumblings about Mr. Kaufman. More than a year ago, commenters on the Brooklyn Heights Blog accused him of financial sleight of hand and outright fraud. Some employees said their paychecks began bouncing about three months ago.
 Some also said that Alan Young, an owner of the businesses, told them within the last few weeks that Mr. Kaufman no longer worked for him and should not be allowed on the premises. 
 ''I thought Dan was an owner -- we all did, because he passed himself off as one,'' said Farrah Powell, a manager at the Wine Bar. ''I never met the real owners until all of this came to light. I think that was by Dan's design, so we'd have no one higher up to talk to about his behavior.'' 
 On July 17, Mr. Kaufman was arrested and charged with grand larceny, falsification of business records and identity theft, according to the Brooklyn district attorney's office. Based on evidence collected by employees and investigators from American Express and Citibank, he was accused of using the credit card numbers of 19 customers to steal nearly $25,000 during the past six months, and attempting to steal an additional $46,000 from five other patrons, according to court papers. 
 Mr. Kaufman was released on $50,000 bail a day after his arrest, according to his lawyer, Peter E. Brill. The case is now before a grand jury. Mr. Kaufman, who referred all questions to Mr. Brill, faces up to seven years in prison if convicted on the charges. 
 Julia Horowitz, who owns the Blue Pig in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and was a partner in the Henry Street shop, said Mr. Kaufman was a ''con man who bamboozled the whole community'' even as he was given full autonomy to run the shops. But Mr. Brill said that Mr. Kaufman was a victim of corrupt business practices by others and described him as ''almost a patsy.'' 
 There have been no other arrests in the case. Mr. Young and another co-owner of the businesses, David Seatts, could not be reached for comment on two days late last week and on Saturday, and the district attorney's office declined to comment further. 
 Some of Mr. Kaufman's previous activities can be established from court papers and other sources. He was an owner of a wine restaurant in Boston and was sued last year by that restaurant's landlord, who said he was owed more than $40,000 in rent, according to court documents. Before that, Mr. Kaufman lived in Vermont, where, Mr. Brill said, he managed and owned restaurants that were unsuccessful. 
 While the precise details of what happened remain elusive, the darkened storefronts at Henry and Cranberry Streets have everyone talking and are reminders of what has been lost.
 Ms. Powell of the Wine Bar said that after Mr. Kaufman's arrest, vendors refused to make deliveries but that the staff tried to keep the business operating. ''The employees were buying food and wine out of pocket, bringing candles from home, whatever it took,'' she said. ''We just hoped to make the money back at the end of the night and keep the place afloat. 
 ''On Wednesday afternoon, Al Young walked in and told us we were closed, and then he turned around and walked out -- no notice, no conversation, no thank you for your effort. Nothing.'' 
 Ms. Powell said she spent the rest of the day calling her co-workers and looking for a job. 
 ''There isn't much out there,'' she said. ''It's going to be so hard for all of us to find work. I am questioning whether I should even put the Wine Bar on my resume. 
 ''My biggest fear now is being associated with all of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Blue Pig ice cream shop on Henry Street was one of four businesses closed last week after its manager was arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details affected area of Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn, New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); ARRESTS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); ICE CREAM (71%); PREPARED FOODS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); IDENTITY THEFT (66%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (61%); LARCENY & THEFT (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



94 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Energy Follies

 BODY:
It's hard not to be exasperated and even a little frightened by the Senate's selfishly partisan approach to the nation's energy challenge in the days leading up to its August recess. Given one last shot at taking modest but meaningful steps to deal with tightening oil supplies and climate change, the Senate instead settled for a schoolyard blame game whose main purpose was to exploit public dismay over rising gasoline prices for short-term political gain. 
 Senate Republicans tried to leverage voters' anguish by offering proposals that furthered their unexamined strategy to expand offshore drilling. The Democrats responded by pinning the blame for the surge in oil prices on financial speculators, and offering a bill to curb trading. The usual bogeymen appeared, with Republicans' accusing environmentalists of locking up precious oil supplies and the Democrats' blaming Wall Street. 
 These competing bills provided a dashing image of senators hard at work, but neither provided any hope of relief at the pump for beleaguered constituents. The oil industry already has access to fourth-fifths of the nation's recoverable offshore resources, mostly off Alaska and in the Gulf of Mexico, and drilling the forbidden areas -- protected by a longstanding Congressional moratorium that President Bush is trying to lift -- would make only a marginal difference in prices 15 years down the road.
 As to the speculators so reviled by the Democrats, most economists believe that they have little or nothing to do with oil prices. 
 This political theater -- for that is all it was -- exacted a price. It diverted the nation from the intellectually rigorous debate over energy policy it needs to have (and should have) in an election year, while sparing the Senate from developing serious policies that could help set the country on a more energy-efficient and environmentally sound course. 
 Among the victims of this poisonous bickering were serious proposals from Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, and Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, that would have provided an estimated $18 billion for alternative and renewable energy sources. Much of this money would have extended tax credits, set to expire in December, that are vital to the further development of climate-friendly sources of energy like wind and solar power, while providing new credits for plug-in hybrid cars that over time could actually make a difference in fuel prices. 
 The most vivid symbol of the Senate's ineptitude was the majority leader, Harry Reid, who tried to make the best of a terrible two weeks by asking his opposite number, Mitch McConnell, to join him in an ''energy summit'' in Las Vegas. From one perspective, given the farce we have just witnessed, it makes sense to move the debate over energy policy as far from Washington as possible, even to an environment as distant from reality as Las Vegas. But Mr. Reid has to know how silly this looks and what it really says about the Senate's capacity for action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



95 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Look to Pill, Taken Daily, to Avert H.I.V.

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Can a pill a day help prevent infection from H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS?
 No one knows. But researchers in a number of countries are conducting trials and planning others to test the unproven strategy that a daily pill, or a combination of drugs, can prevent H.I.V.
 By mid-2009, more people will be enrolled in such trials than in all of those for H.I.V. vaccines and microbicides, the AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition said in a report issued here on Sunday at the start of the 17th International AIDS Conference. 
 Initial findings of the safety and effectiveness might come early next year, although researchers do not know how they will compare to the disappointing results of recent tests of H.I.V. vaccines and microbicides, chemicals that women can put in their vagina to prevent H.I.V. infection.
 In the face of those bleak findings, some AIDS experts say testing the prophylactic use of antiretroviral drugs, called PrEP, for pre-exposure prophylaxis, is now the most promising research in H.I.V. prevention efforts as scientific investigation of vaccines and microbicides continues.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which released a report on Saturday showing that the number of people newly infected with H.I.V. in the United States in recent years was 40 percent higher than has long been reported, said that PrEP was among the strategies that needed to be developed to substantially reduce the incidence of H.I.V. An estimated 2.7 million people become infected each year worldwide.
 ''We cannot wait for the study results to begin to prepare for the optimal use and delivery of PrEP,'' said Pedro Goicochea, an investigator in a PrEP study under way in Peru and Ecuador. ''Instead, we should look ahead to consider all of the possible outcomes of these trials and make real plans for making PrEP available to those who can benefit from it, as quickly and safely as possible if it is proven effective.''
 The United States Agency for International Development, the C.D.C. and the National Institutes of Health are paying in part for all of the trials. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is paying for part of two. The organizations have undertaken the trials because of the success in giving antiretroviral drugs to pregnant women to prevent H.I.V. infection in their infants and drugs to prevent malaria. 
 In 2007, Family Health International completed a similar study of the antiretroviral drug tenofovir for H.I.V. prevention among young women in Ghana, providing the first data showing such use was both safe and acceptable among uninfected users. But the study did not indicate if PrEP was effective in preventing new infections.
 Studies in a small number of nonhuman primates hint that PrEP can reduce the risk of infection of a simian form of H.I.V. in nonhuman primates.
 Initial PrEP studies are testing tenofovir, either alone or combined with another drug, emtricitabine. 
 Infected people taking these licensed drugs have shown limited side effects like nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and intestinal gas. But the safety of the drugs must be established among noninfected people as well as among participants who become infected in the study.
 Trial participants include gay and bisexual men, heterosexual men and women, couples in which one partner is H.I.V. infected, and sex workers. 
 Up to 15,000 people are expected to be participating in trials by mid-2009. Sites of the trials include Botswana, Brazil, Ecuador, Kenya, Malawi, Peru, South Africa, Tanzania, Thailand, Uganda and the United States. 
 Male circumcision has proved effective in a significant percentage of H.I.V.-negative people in trials in Africa. 
 Because PrEP might also work in a significant percentage of uninfected users, the advocacy coalition and other researchers say now is the time for governments, health officials, donors, researchers and advocates for AIDS research to prepare for the maximum public health benefit if the pill-a-day strategy works.
 One reason for the immediacy, they say, is that even if a PrEP strategy proved successful, it would not be a silver bullet. PrEP would need to be combined with standard prevention measures like safer sex practices, use of condoms and clean needles, and counseling.
 Governments would need to prepare for global procurement of PrEP, arrange adequate staffing to deliver the drugs and provide counseling and determine who will pay for the costs, said the coalition, which describes itself as an international nonprofit, community- and consumer-based organization.
 Provisions would also need to be made for participants who do become infected, and findings from a number of trials would be needed before PrEP could be widely recommended.
 Results may be hard to interpret because the tests are being conducted in different ways and so may produce varying findings, the advocacy coalition's report said. Statisticians could face challenges in pooling the data from the trials. 
 The report also said that the initial findings were likely to raise questions needing further study, like whether taking pills intermittently -- like just before a sexual act -- can be effective. The report is available online at www.avac.org/prep08.pdf.
 Researchers conducting the studies said they were taking longer than initially expected. Among the problems are recruiting volunteers and addressing the real or perceived stigmatization of those who participate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People participate in a march during the 17th International AIDS Conference in Mexico City on Sunday. The sign says, ''Universal Action AIDS Now.'' The conference will end on Aug. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALDO SCHEMIDT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); WOMEN (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); MALARIA (73%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: FAMILY HEALTH INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (90%); GHANA (79%); PERU (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



96 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2304 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: August 4, 2008

 BODY:
International
 AGREEING TO WORK FOR NEW PACT
 For Anglican Church
 As the Lambeth Conference came to a close, the 650 bishops and archbishops of the Anglican Communion agreed to seek a new pact, known as a covenant, that would help engender what a conference-ending document described as ''a season of gracious restraint'' among all parties to the ecclesiastical controversy over the issue of homosexuality. The push for a covenant amounted to a strategy for finding both short- and long-term solutions to a dispute that has bitterly divided the world's estimated 80 million Anglicans. PAGE A6
 AIRSHIPS KEEP A TOWN AFLOAT
 The town of Friedrichshafen, Germany (population 57,000), was where Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin launched his flying machine, and the sizable foundation he bequeathed to the town has been a huge boon, generating between $60 million and $80 million a year. The zeppelins, which consume very little fuel, are receiving new attention that could bolster the town even further. But so far, Friedrichshafen's airship companies have found few takers. PAGE A6 
 AUSTRALIA TO INVESTIGATE AIRLINE
 Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority, said that it would investigate safety standards at Qantas Airways following several recent incidents involving the airlines' planes. Last month, a blast blew a hole in the fuselage of a Qantas flight between Hong Kong and Melbourne, forcing the plane to land in Manila. Two other, less serious incidents followed: a domestic flight had to turn back after a door above one wheel would not close; on Saturday, a hydraulic leak forced a flight to Manila to return to Sydney shortly after takeoff. PAGE A7
 SEX SCANDALS ROCK MALAYSIA
 Two top politicians in Malaysia are embroiled in sex scandals: one accused of sodomy and the other of romantic links to a Mongolian woman gruesomely killed in 2006. Both men were vying to become Malaysia's next prime minister, and the scandals could end their careers. And though the government tightly controls the media, it has been unable to rein in the documents, facts and rumors that have been disseminated via the Internet. PAGE A7
 IRAQIS FAIL TO REACH ELECTION DEAL
 Iraqi political leaders tried to reach a deal that would allow provincial elections to go forward, but they again failed to reach an agreement, which made the prospect of elections to be held this year less likely. The talks took place as bombings shook Baghdad, including a truck explosion that killed 12 civilians. PAGE A8
 Bombing Kills 15 Women in Somalia A10
 NATIONAL
 A NEW CROP SPRINGS UP
 In the Hills of Nebraska
 Being the Middle of Nowhere has its advantages, including, for Ainsworth, Neb., an annual festival. And wind, wind of the sort that has motivated the construction of three dozen wind turbines standing 230 feet high with blades 131 feet long. The idea is to produce energy without burning coal or natural gas or anything else like that; to be, in other words, the future. This Land, by Dan Barry. PAGE A11
 MCCAIN BORROWS FROM CLINTON
 Senator Barack Obama has watched Senator John McCain pick up central strands of the approach Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton used against Mr. Obama and amplify them. That would no doubt be acceptable to the Obama camp, if the outcome proved the same. But John Harwood writes in the Caucus that ''key elements of Mr. McCain's offensive, and Mr. Obama's response, may resonate differently than in the Obama-Clinton duel.'' PAGE A12
 RESEARCHERS' HOMES FIREBOMBED
 The police and federal authorities are investigating a pair of firebombings at the homes of two researchers at the University of California, Santa Cruz. The attacks, which the university described as ''anti-science violence,'' occurred nearly simultaneously before dawn on Saturday, just days after the police in Santa Cruz discovered pamphlets in a local coffee shop warning of attacks against ''animal abusers everywhere.'' PAGE A11
 A PLEA TO LET DELEGATES VOTE
 Senator Barack Obama has asked the credentials committee of the Democratic Party to give full voting rights at the national convention to delegates from Florida and Michigan, states that held early primaries in violation of party rules. The move is not unexpected -- nominees like to please delegates -- but is likely to cause consternation among party officials, who have struggled to maintain some authority over the primary calendar. PAGE A12
 OBITUARIES
 DAVID H. POPPER, 95
 A seasoned United States diplomat, he struggled to balance military and human rights concerns as ambassador to Chile in the tense early years of General Augusto Pinochet's government. PAGE A15 
 JOHN F. SEIBERLING, 89
 A former representative, he served on the committee that led impeachment hearings against President Richard M. Nixon and laid the groundwork for Ohio's only national park. PAGE A15 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 CORRECTING THE MAYOR
 When He Misspeaks
 Luis Cardozo left Colombia in the late 1990s to escape the violence of the drug cartels and came to the United States. He dreamed of practicing law in the city but also needed money to send for the son he had left in Colombia. So he went to work, and the first job he was offered was at a language school. Since 2002, he has been tutoring another immigrant of sorts, though one from another state, not another country: a fellow named Bloomberg. PAGE A18 
 FLUMMOXED BY CYCLISTS
 The New York City Police Department has been on the front lines of the citywide decline in serious crime, has protected visiting dignitaries like Pope Benedict XVI and has posted officers in foreign capitals to gather information on terrorism and trends that could threaten New York. But once a month it is flummoxed by bicyclists riding together and shouting disparaging words. PAGE A18 
 Metropolitan Diary A19 
 SPORTS
 FORGOTTEN ARCHITECTS
 Of Great Golf Courses
 In recent decades, there has been nostalgia for the enduring work from golf's golden age of architecture, roughly defined as the period from 1910 to the late 1930s. Some of the names that dominate this era are Donald Ross, Alister MacKenzie and A. W. Tillinghast. Rarely heard are the names of their contemporaries Wayne Stiles and John Van Kleek. But, Bill Pennington writes, Stiles was prolific, and Van Kleek put his stamp on golf courses throughout New York City. PAGE D5
 THE NEGATIVES OF A POSITIVE
 Every day a team with about 300 members gets ready for the Beijing Olympics. They hop into cars, catch planes, ride in buses and trains or squeeze onto three-wheeled scooters to carry out their assignments: collecting urine and blood samples from China's best athletes. After all, it would be devastating to the entire nation, high-level sports officials here said, if an athlete from the home country were to fail a drug test while the world was watching. PAGE D1
 SAY THEY CAN'T GO
 The National League West appears once again to be mounting a threat to get a team with a losing record into the postseason. Dave Anderson writes that such a possibility should inspire Commissioner Bud Selig's rule makers to render any division winner with a sub-.500 record ineligible. Sports of The Times. PAGE D1
 BUSINESS
 A MAVERICK KEEPS BANKERS
 On the Edge of Their Seats
 Richard X. Bove can rattle the mighty of American banking, as he did after a bank collapse in July, making a list of 107 others, ranked according to financial strength, and asking, ''Who's next?'' One on the list is suing him, but controversy is nothing new for Mr. Bove, 67, who has analyzed banking stocks for 26 years and who since 2005 has gained a certain reputation as one of the few bank analysts to predict the blowup in the housing market and subsequent problems at many banks. PAGE C1
 MEDIA SEEK CAMPAIGN BOUNCE
 Heightened voter interest in this year's presidential campaign has pushed cable news ratings sharply up and made The Politico, an upstart news organization founded in January 2007, a clear winner. But many media companies are struggling to translate campaign coverage into repeat readers and viewers -- or revenue. The presidential primary debates had little lasting impact on TV ratings, and some magazines say that issues with candidates on the cover show only a modest bump in newsstand sales. PAGE C1
 THE HOT NEW CONGRESS VIDEO
 If members of Congress speak but C-Span's cameras are turned off because of recess, will there be any video? If you are a band setting the hearts of teenage girls aflutter, like the Jonas Brothers, but have only one album in stores, what happens to the price of your unheralded early efforts? And is that a mummy in the Olympics? Media Talk. PAGE C6
 F-R-E-E SPELLS WHAT?
 Maybe you have seen the commercials too, with the slacker dude singing about the problems life dealt him because he failed to check his credit on FreeCreditReport.com. Catchy, no? Well, some consumer advocates say the pitch is misleading, and that the ''F-R-E-E'' in the lyrics may not end up meaning what is generally considered to mean ''free.'' PAGE C9
 HOW MANY POINTS FOR 'QOPHS'?
 Fans of Scrabulous, the Scrabble clone on Facebook, are undaunted by the lawsuit that forced the game's removal last week. They are simply downloading Facebook's Wordscaper (which lets them mimic a Scrabble board, if they like) or playing Scrabulous on the game's own Web site. One apparently universal dislike, though: the name Wordscaper. PAGE C10
 Intel Tries to Outdo Itself C8
 A Diplomatic Wiki C4
 Grim News for a Paper C1 
 ARTS
 PAINTINGS BY NUMBERS
 With a Chicago Economist
 David Galenson can name the single greatest work of art of the 20th century (''Les Demoiselles d'Avignon''), as well as the second, third, fourth and fifth. His confidence does not come from a stack of degrees in art history. Mr. Galenson, an economist at the University of Chicago, is convinced that economic analysis can also explain art. His statistical approach has led to what he says is a radically new interpretation of 20th-century art. PAGE E1 
 COUNTLESS WIVES AND SOURCES
 There are many indications that David Ebershoff conducted prodigious research to write his novel about polygamy, ''The 19th Wife.'' His narrative includes memoirs, depositions, letters, newspaper articles and a Wikipedia entry. What he has replicated as powerfully as the history of polygamy in America is the scholarly process of looking things up. Far from bringing him closer to his characters, Janet Maslin writes, it muffles his novel's drama. PAGE E1 
 MAYO AND INCONSISTENCY
 The chef Emeril Lagasse cannot put away the butter. Or the cream. Or the creme fraiche, white flour, olive oil, fried batters, bechamel, roux, mayonnaise and fatty beef. ''Emeril Green'' on Planet Green, a new offering by the Discovery Networks, is supposed to promote easy ways to prepare eco-friendly dishes. But healthy, it seems, doesn't have to be heart-healthy or even low in fat, Alessandra Stanley writes. And on a channel that measures citizenship by the carbon footprint, Mr. Lagasse leaves a huge caloric wake. PAGE E1 
 DANCE GETS MARTIAL ARTS KICK
 DanceBrazil has been trained to deliver capoeira, the Afro-Brazilian genre in which dance meets martial arts. Since this meant that exceptionally fit men delivered a display of agility, there was eager applause from the audience. What was in doubt, Alastair Macaulay writes, was whether this was interesting as dance. PAGE E4 
 GIRLS, GUNFIRE AND DESPAIR
 ''Baghdad High,'' a documentary that will premiere on Monday on HBO, follows four Iraqis through their senior year. The film is not the first documentary for which high school students have been handed cameras and asked to record their daily lives. But, Mike Hales writes, the stakes are quite different when driving to school in the morning could mean being shot. PAGE E2 
 DODGING MOZART AND WEBERN
 With Louis Langree conducting and Christiane Oelze applying her versatile soprano, the first half of the Mostly Mozart Festival did some artful dodging between tonality and atonality, from Mozart's ''Idomeneo'' to Webern's ''Five Canons After Latin Texts.'' A review by James R. Oestreich. PAGE E4 
 Editorial
 ENERGY FOLLIES
 Given one last shot at taking modest but meaningful steps to deal with tightening oil supplies and climate change, the Senate instead settled for a schoolyard blame game to exploit public dismay over rising gasoline prices for short-term political gain. PAGE A20
 A MAJOR POLITICAL TEST FOR IRAQ
 Since the American invasion of Iraq, the oil-rich northern city of Kirkuk has been a political tinderbox-in-waiting that is largely ignored. Now that violence is way down, Iraqi leaders have no excuse not to peacefully decide the city's future. PAGE A20
 LAST-MINUTE MISCHIEF FOR LABOR
 The Department of Labor has taken a giant step beyond its customary neglect of workers. Now it is trying to make it more difficult to limit exposure to poisonous chemicals. PAGE A20
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 So who would be a strong vice presidential pick for John McCain? It depends. Some candidates fit one theory of the campaign, others another. And there seem to be at least four competing theories in the McCain camp, which, while not entirely mutually exclusive, point in different vice presidential directions. PAGE A21
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The gradual way the financial crisis has unfolded has led to an ''angels on the head of a pin'' debate among economists about whether what we are suffering really deserves to be called a recession. But even a slow-mo crisis can do a lot of damage if it goes on for a year and counting. PAGE A21
 NO DOGS ALLOWED ON THE MENU
 Beijing restaurants have been asked to take dog meat off their menus during the Olympics. But dog is not a dish many Chinese are likely to miss, Fuchsia Dunlop writes in an Op-Ed article. PAGE A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SCANDALS (89%); BOMBINGS (87%); ELECTIONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); TRUCK SAFETY (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); WIND POWER PLANTS (68%); POLITICS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); CIVIL AVIATION (67%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (66%)

COMPANY: QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (68%)

TICKER: QAN (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (75%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (66%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); SOMALIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



97 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Experts See Albany's Red Ink as a Problem Needing Action, Not a Crisis

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
''The budget I am presenting today,'' Gov. Hugh L. Carey said in a speech in 1976, ''demands that every state agency'' must ''alter those practices that have brought the public sector of this state to its greatest crisis since the Great Depression.''
 Fast forward to 1991, when his successor, Mario M. Cuomo, said in a budget address that New York was confronting ''fiscal problems more severe than any we have faced since the Great Depression.''
 Not to be outdone, his successor, George E. Pataki, said in comments to reporters a decade later, ''We are facing the most difficult financial situation in the state since probably before the Great Depression.'' 
 But the state never sank to those depths. Each time, the governor and Legislature overcame seemingly cavernous budget shortfalls with some mixture of tax increases and spending cuts, hiring freezes, borrowing and one-shot deals -- like Mr. Cuomo's sale of Attica prison to one of the state's own authorities during the recession of the early 1990s.
 Except for the 1970s, during the city's financial meltdown, services were rarely disrupted. As often as not, the cuts were actually reductions in projected increases in spending. 
 Now the dire warnings of Governors Carey, Cuomo and Pataki are echoing again in the marbled hallways of the Capitol as Albany grapples with yet another budget deep in the red. With Wall Street in turmoil and tax revenues down sharply, Gov. David A. Paterson declared last week that New York and the nation were facing a downturn which he, too, likened to the one in the 1930s. 
 The ''crisis,'' he said during a speech at the National Press Club in Washington, ''may yet be as challenging to the American population as even the Great Depression.''
 Few budget analysts, though, consider the current shortfall to be a crisis, though they are concerned that the long-gathering global economic gloom could cause the state's outlook to worsen considerably. 
 When viewed as a percentage of the overall budget, the state's projected shortfall for the next three years, $26.2 billion, is not nearly as great as it was in the recession five years ago. And though next year's projected deficit has grown to $6.4 billion, that is considered substantial but not unmanageable in a budget approaching $130 billion.
 Still, there are potentially profound problems in the state economy that could force more drastic measures. Wall Street, the financial engine of New York, is in an unusually precarious state and it is not yet clear if the major investment banks will all be solvent when the storm passes. 
 ''What most really seasoned insiders think is that we are on as bad a footing as we've seen in a long, long time,'' said Peter Goldmark, who served as the state's budget director in the 1970s and was one of the engineers of the city's rescue from the brink of bankruptcy.
 ''The earlier you act, and the more decisively you act, the better your chance to get through the storm without having to hurt people with desperate last-minute cuts,'' he said.
 Felix G. Rohatyn, a senior adviser at Lehman Brothers and another architect of the city's 1970s rescue, concurred.
 Regarding the budget, he said the governor ''has no choice but to try to act. He's right to try to do something.''
 ''I've always felt you manage for the worst and hope it gets better,'' he added, ''but you don't manage on the hope it gets better.''
 There is wide agreement that the 1970s were a time of real crisis. New York City's social programs and employment contracts in the 1960s led it to spend beyond its means to the point that, in a souring national economy, banks stopped lending it money in the mid-1970s. The ensuing belt-tightening was severe. More than 20,000 city workers were laid off by the end of 1975, crime soared amid police cutbacks, and by the end of the decade nearly a million people had left the city.
 Shut out of the credit markets and awash in red ink, the city and the state turned to a reluctant Ford administration for help. But state leaders on both sides of the aisle also collaborated on creative solutions, like creating the Municipal Assistance Corporation to raise money for the city. Unions agreed to invest pension fund money in the bonds. 
 Once more, spending growth has far outstripped revenue growth, but not yet to the point of a 1970s-style crisis.
 Laura L. Anglin, the state budget director, said she was worried about how much worse things might get, given the bleak outlook for Wall Street bonuses and capital-gains tax revenues. 
 ''Our two main sources of income are our riskiest,'' she said. ''For every 10 percent decline in bonuses, we lose an additional $350 million in tax revenue.'' Each 10 percent drop in capital gains amounts to a $700 million revenue drop, according to the budget division. The extent of the erosion, however, will not be known for months.
 The administration wants to avoid a replay of the recession in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, when Governor Pataki and the Legislature put off taking action until early 2003, near the end of one fiscal year and the beginning of another, and had to deal with two deficits at once.
 ''Everyone is saying Wall Street bonuses will be terrible this year,'' Ms. Anglin said. ''If that's the case, we're left in January in a situation similar to what happened last time in a recession.''
 ''That's why we want to take action now,'' she added. 
 But the political fight over what action to take could echo the fight of 2003; then, as now, a governor was pushing to make sharp spending cuts. Then, as now, the Legislature was resistant to the idea. In 2003, lawmakers raised income taxes over Mr. Pataki's objections and overrode his vetoes. 
 This time, many doubt the Legislature is ready to take drastic measures to reduce state spending in a year when all 212 seats come up for election. The governor has called a special session for Aug. 19. Already, the administration has imposed a hiring freeze and ordered agency spending cuts of more than 10 percent. That will be enough to manage a shortfall in the current year's budget, passed in April, now projected at $630 million. 
 The governor would like the Legislature to agree to another $600 million worth of cuts this year and has said that education, the largest part of the budget, must be on the table. Assembly Democrats are particularly resistant to education cuts. Instead, they want to increase taxes on the rich -- specifically those who earn $1 million or more a year -- a proposal the governor and Senate Republicans oppose. 
 ''The worst-case scenario that David is putting out there is not what anybody would call a crisis,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat. 
 ''What you're hearing from the leadership of the city and the state so far could come straight from Rush Limbaugh and Fox News,'' he added. ''What I think you'll see the Legislature do is force a debate about fairness and shared sacrifice.''
 Mr. Goldmark, for his part, said he was not surprised lawmakers were resistant.
 ''As a citizen of the state now rather than a budget director,'' he said, ''I think Paterson is going to have to crack the whip.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1991, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo warned of the worst fiscal trouble ''since the Great Depression.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID JENNINGS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Govs. Hugh L. Carey, above, in 1976, and George E. Pataki, left, in 2001, each declared the direst budget since the 1930s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



98 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: More Broadband Options

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''OPEC 2.0'' (Op-Ed, July 30): 
 We find Tim Wu's warning of a coming ''bandwidth cartel'' ridiculous when you consider the rapid progress America is making in expanding better and more affordable broadband options. 
 A decade ago, basic DSL cost $70 a month in Pennsylvania and $90 a month in California (not adjusting for inflation). Since then, prices have plunged, while online speeds and access choices have surged. 
 Meanwhile, Wi-Fi spots are in virtually every coffee shop, and more than 15 million users have signed up for wireless broadband, which is also getting faster. In short, the trend is toward the opposite of a bandwidth cartel. 
 Equally important, maintaining a quality Internet requires sophisticated data management on the network, not just new bandwidth. Even the Japanese, with their high-speed networks, have accepted the need to manage data traffic to keep up with P2P, or peer-to-peer, file-sharing and other data-intensive applications. Christopher Wolf 
 Mike McCurry 
 Co-chairmen
 Hands Off the Internet
 Washington, July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (91%); CARTELS (91%); BANDWIDTH (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (86%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



99 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: A Slow-Mo Meltdown

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
A year ago, as the outlines of the current financial crisis were just becoming clear, I suggested that this crisis, unlike a superficially similar crisis in 1998, wouldn't end quickly.
 It hasn't. 
 The good news, I guess, is that we've been experiencing a sort of slow-motion meltdown, lacking in dramatic Black Fridays and such. The gradual way the crisis has unfolded has led to an angels-on-the-head-of-a-pin debate among economists about whether what we're suffering really deserves to be called a recession.
 Yet even a slo-mo crisis can do a lot of damage if it goes on for a year and counting. 
 Home prices are down about 16 percent over the past year, and show no sign of stabilizing. The pain from this bust is widely spread: there are millions of American families who didn't buy mortgage-backed securities and haven't lost their houses, but have nonetheless been impoverished by the destruction of much or all of their home equity. 
 Meanwhile, the job market has deteriorated even more than you'd guess from the jump in the headline unemployment rate. The broadest measure of unemployment, which takes into account the rapidly rising number of workers forced to take cuts in paid hours and wages, has risen from 8.3 percent to 10.3 percent over the past year, roughly matching its high point five years ago.
 And there's no end to the pain in sight. 
 Ben Bernanke and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve have cut the interest rates they control repeatedly since last September. But they haven't managed to reduce borrowing costs for the private sector. Mortgage rates are about the same as they were last summer, and the interest rates many corporations have to pay have actually gone up. So Fed policy hasn't done anything to encourage private investment.
 The problem is fear: private-sector finance has dried up because investors, burned by their losses on securities that were supposed to be safe, are now reluctant to buy anything that isn't guaranteed by the U.S. government. And the proliferation of special rescue packages -- the TAF, the TSLF, the Bear Stearns deal, the Fannie-Freddie thing -- may have staved off blind panic, but has fallen far short of restoring confidence.
 Oh, and those tax rebates Congress and the White House agreed to mail out have already done whatever good they're going to do. Looking forward, it's hard to see how consumers can keep spending even at their current rate -- which means that things will probably get considerably worse before they get better.
 What more can policy do? The Fed has pretty much used up its ammunition: nobody thinks that additional interest-rate cuts would accomplish much (and there's a faction at the Fed that wants to raise rates to fight inflation). 
 And nothing much can or should be done to support home prices, which are still much too high in inflation-adjusted terms. Nor can Washington prevent a continuing credit crunch: overextended, undercapitalized financial institutions have to rein in their lending, and it's not realistic to expect the public sector to pick up all the slack -- especially when quasipublic institutions like Fannie and Freddie are also in trouble.
 There is, however, a case for another, more serious fiscal stimulus package, as a way to sustain employment while the markets work off the aftereffects of the housing bubble. The ''emergency economic plan'' Barack Obama announced last week is a move in the right direction, although I wish it had been bigger and bolder. 
 Still, Mr. Obama is offering more than John McCain, whose economic policy mainly amounts to ''stay the course.''
 Incidentally, it's surprising that the lousy economy hasn't yet had more impact on the campaign. Mr. McCain essentially proposes continuing the policies of a president whose approval rating on economics is only 20 percent. So why isn't Mr. Obama further ahead in the polls?
 One answer may be that Mr. Obama, perhaps inhibited by his desire to transcend partisanship (and avoid praising the last Democratic president?), has been surprisingly diffident about attacking the Bush economic record. An illustration: if you go to the official Obama Web site and click on the economic issues page, what you see first isn't a call for change -- what you see is a long quote from the candidate extolling the wonders of the free market, which could just as easily have come from a speech by President Bush. 
 Anyway, back to the economy. I titled that column about the early stages of the financial crisis ''Very Scary Things.'' A year later, with the crisis still rolling, it's clear that I was right to be afraid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX RELIEF (63%); TAX LAW (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



100 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: A Textbook Example Of Ranking Artworks

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Ask David Galenson to name the single greatest work of art from the 20th century, and he unhesitatingly answers ''Les Demoiselles d'Avignon,'' a 1907 painting by Picasso.
 He can then tell you with certainty Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5 and so on, as well.
 His confidence in the ranking doesn't come from a stack of degrees in art history (though he has read a lot on the subject). After all, Mr. Galenson is an economist at the University of Chicago who initially specialized in colonial America. But during the past 10 years he has turned his attention to artists and creativity, convinced that the type of economic analysis that explains the $4-plus gas at the pump can also explain the greatest artists of the last 100 or so years. 
 His statistical approach has led to what he says is a radically new interpretation of 20th-century art, one he is certain art historians will hate. It is based in part on how frequently an illustration of a work appears in textbooks. 
 ''Quantification has been almost totally absent from art history,'' he said. ''Art historians hate markets.''
 To Mr. Galenson markets are what make the 20th century completely different from other eras for art. In earlier periods artists created works for rich patrons generally in the court or the church, which functioned as a monopoly. Only in the 20th century did art enter the marketplace and become a commodity, like a stick of butter or an Hermes bag. In this system, he said, breaking the rules became the most valued attribute. The greatest rewards went to conceptual innovators who frequently changed styles and invented genres. For the first time the idea behind the work of art became more important than the physical object itself. 
 Economists, of course, have turned their attention to the art world before. Thorstein Veblen, in his 1899 classic, ''Theory of the Leisure Class,'' discussed how the newly moneyed turned everything, including art, into elements of conspicuous consumption. But over all, economic theories of art are still relatively rare. 
 In the preface to his 2000 book ''Creative Industries,'' the Harvard economist Richard E. Caves said that decades earlier he had come up with the idea but ''thought it best postponed to a time when my reputation for professional seriousness could more comfortably be placed at risk.'' 
 In 2002 Mr. Galenson discussed his theories about creativity in the book ''Painting Outside the Lines.'' Then, two years ago, he published ''Old Masters and Young Geniuses: The Two Life Cycles of Artistic Creativity,'' arguing that young innovators have a flash of inspiration that upends the existing order in an instant. There are old geniuses too, he said, but their approach is vastly different. They are what he labeled ''experimentalists,'' who develop their work gradually through years of trial and error. 
 His theory of creativity was based in part on examining auction prices. His approach was hailed by some as a breakthrough, and this spring he was awarded a Guggenheim fellowship to pursue his research.
 Others find the work misconceived, however. Victor Ginsburgh, an economist at the European Center for Advanced Research in Economics and Statistics, argued that the distinction between conceptualists and experimentalists is specious.
 But what most bothers Mr. Galenson is his dismissal by art experts who, he writes in his forthcoming book, ''almost unanimously refused to acknowledge the value that quantitative methods could have in their field.''
 He intends to push his theories further in the book, which will take on the entire last century in art. Since many of the most important individual works rarely, if ever, come to market, he decided to use art history textbooks to value each piece. He tallied the number of illustrations of each piece in the 33 textbooks he found that were published between 1990 and 2005, on the assumption that the most important works merited the most illustrations.
 ''Important artists are innovators whose work changes the practices of their successors,'' Mr. Galenson declares in his book. ''The greater the changes, the greater the artist.'' 
 ''Demoiselles'' came in at No. 1 with 28 illustrations. Vladimir Tatlin's ''Monument to the Third International'' (1919-20), a plan for a celebratory tower, came in second with 25 illustrations. ''Spiral Jetty,'' a gigantic earthwork coil that Robert Smithson planted in the Great Salt Lake in Utah 1970, came in third with 23, followed by Richard Hamilton's ''Just What Is It That Makes Today's Homes So Different, So Appealing?,'' a 1956 collage widely considered to be the first Pop Art, with 22. Umberto Boccioni's 1913 bronze sculpture ''Unique Forms of Continuity in Space'' tied Picasso's ''Guernica'' (1937) with 21. Marcel Duchamp's 1917 ''Fountain'' -- a white urinal -- was seventh with 18 illustrations, and his 1912 painting ''Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2'' was eighth with 16.
 Some of these conceptual innovators -- like Mr. Hamilton, Boccioni and Tatlin -- are one-hit wonders, he acknowledges; they made a single breakthrough, even if they don't rank among the best artists. 
 Michael Rushton, who teaches the economics of art at Indiana University, said that Mr. Galenson was on to something; in science or art, he said, ''innovation really requires a market.''
 Charles M. Gray, co-author of ''The Economics of Art and Culture,'' said, ''We all want to believe there is something special about the arts, but I don't buy that there is a difference between artistic and economic value.'' The accurately priced piece will capture all of those intangibles as well, he said. 
 Art experts, not surprisingly, are more skeptical. ''The economic notion of artists is interesting for art historians to have to grapple with,'' John Elderfield, chief curator emeritus at the Museum of Modern Art, said when Mr. Galenson's theory was described to him. ''These are works in the histories that we tell of modern art. They seem to be milestones, and that's fair enough.'' But he cautioned that this approach could only go so far. ''There are great, great things being made which are not reducible to statistics.''
 In the hard and social sciences the number of citations -- when other academics mention a work -- is a standard way of gauging a thinker's importance. Mr. Gray, Mr. Rushton and other economists like Don Thompson, author of ''The $12 Million Stuffed Shark,'' generally judged the counting of illustrations as a valid measure. 
 But Mr. Elderfield said that just as decisions about new exhibitions are based on what has already been exhibited, textbooks tend to reproduce images that have been used before. ''It becomes a self-justifying system,'' he said.
 Mr. Elderfield added that well-known and accessible pieces tend to get reproduced more frequently. ''Demoiselles'' got a lot of attention when the Museum of Modern Art rescued it from obscurity in 1939, Mr. Elderfield said, whereas Picasso's 1908 painting ''Three Women'' was in the Hermitage's collection in St. Petersburg, Russia, and out of reach to the West until 1970. Before then no art book pictured ''Three Women,'' he said, although now it is frequently reproduced.
 Arthur C. Danto, art critic for The Nation and an author of books on art, said that textbooks go through trends and have in recent years represented many more women, African-Americans and American Indians. ''The art world itself became politicized,'' he said, ''and that has affected textbooks and the illustrations.''
 A greater obstacle for Mr. Elderfield, however, are Mr. Galenson's conclusions. ''Particularly in a society that values the progressive, there is an instinct to make great and influential the same thing,'' he said, ''but they aren't necessarily.'' 
 About the ranking, Mr. Elderfield said, ''Frankly, it's preposterous.'' Pressed to create a list off the top of his head, he said he would include ''Demoiselles'' and ''Fountain,'' but add Matisse's ''Red Studio,'' a Cezanne ''Bathers,'' Malevich's ''White on White'' (''a really extreme work,'' he said), Miro's ''Birth of the World,'' a big Pollock splatter painting, a Warhol sequence of Marilyn Monroe, Mondrian's ''Broadway Boogie Woogie'' and a Jasper Johns American flag. 
 Mr. Galenson's list doesn't even live up to his own criterion, Mr. Elderfield added. Mr. Hamilton's ''Just What Is It?,'' he said, is ''a reactive work much more than a provoking work.'' And ''where's Surrealism, which really had an effect?'' 
 Mr. Danto said: ''I don't see the method as anything except circular. The frequency of an illustration doesn't seem to me to really explain what makes an idea good. 
 ''Somewhere along the line you've got to find answers to why it's so interesting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Galenson, who has assessed 20th-century artwork based on the market and visual citations, at the University of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: QUANTIFYING ART: David Galenson, an economist at the University of Chicago, has ranked important 20th-century artworks through an unusual method: counting the number of times they appear as illustrations in 33 art history textbooks published after 1990. Mr. Galenson found that many of the top works were created early in the artists' careers. (Source: David Galenson, University of Chicago) (pg.E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART HISTORY (92%); HISTORY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); RANKINGS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



101 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 232 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Economic news will be led by the Federal Reserve's meeting on Tuesday to discuss the economy and interest rate policy. 
 Notable economic reports include personal income for July and factory orders for June (Monday); the Case-Shiller Home Price Index for June, housing starts for July, new home sales for July, the Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing index, the consumer confidence index and the Producer Price Index for July (Tuesday); retail sales and durable goods for July; (Wednesday); preliminary gross domestic product for the second quarter and consumer credit for June (Thursday); and personal income for July and productivity for second quarter (Friday). 
 COMPANY EARNINGS It is a busy week for corporate earnings, with reports coming from Humana (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Cisco Systems, D. R. Horton, Duke Energy, Marvel Entertainment, MGM Mirage, Molson Coors Brewing, the News Corporation, Procter & Gamble, Tenet Healthcare, Wendy's International, Weyerhaeuser and Whole Foods Market (Tuesday); American International Group, Freddie Mac, Marsh & McLennan, Qwest Communications International, Sprint Nextel and Time Warner (Wednesday); Blockbuster, DirecTV, Dynegy and Sara Lee (Thursday); and Beazer Homes and MBIA (Friday).
 ET CETERA The bankruptcy settlement hearing for Countrywide Home Loans will be held in Pittsburgh (Monday).

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); RETAIL SALES (56%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (69%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (69%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (68%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); D R HORTON INC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (56%); DYNEGY INC (55%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (55%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); TAP (NYSE) (69%); ADM (NYSE) (69%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); MGM (NYSE) (69%); S (NYSE) (68%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); DHI (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); DUK (NYSE) (56%); DYN (NYSE) (55%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); WFM (NASDAQ) (55%); MMC (NYSE) (55%); MHM (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (69%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (69%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (69%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (69%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (69%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (69%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



102 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: VIEWS FROM NEAR AND FAR

 BODY:
Progress, With a Price
 Xiaowei William Su was born in Beijing and left for the United States in 1989. He graduated from Yale in May and lives in Cheshire, Conn. 
 Heavy industries will close amid intense efforts to curb pollution during the Beijing Games. I remember growing up in a newly erected apartment building in Muxidi, west of the Forbidden City near the Military History Museum, during the early '80s. From my balcony I could see the mountains beyond the outer districts of the city, distant and shimmering green. After I immigrated to the United States I often visited Beijing, returning to that apartment where my grandparents lived and seeing buildings rise along the skyline. Along with the buildings came a still, gray haze, lingering stagnantly among concrete monoliths, pollution from China's economic ascent. The mountains are no longer visible from that balcony, lost amid the haze-enshrouded buildings. 
 New visitors to Beijing will never know the city I knew: games of hide-and-go-seek in the back alleys of hutongs now dismantled; sailing kites on clear autumn days in Tiananmen Square. Like many Chinese, I am proud of the country's progress these past decades, but the human and the environmental costs of development unsettle me. 
 I hope clear skies will grace the Olympics, blue amid shining gold, silver and bronze. 
 The Local Perspective
 Jen Lin-Liu, who lives in Beijing, is the author of ''Serve the People: A Stir-Fried Journey Through China.''
 At Xin Min Food Market in Beijing, red banners hang from the ceiling of the hangar-size warehouse, commanding citizens and vendors alike to ''Guarantee the Safety of Our Food,'' ''Make Our Lives More Civilized'' and ''Build a Green Homeland.'' Below the signs, the usual carnival atmosphere of the market lives on: butchers hack chunks of lamb and pork with their bare hands, elderly shoppers bump me aside, and the floors are wet with seafood slime. 
 As the Olympics near, China's government is trying to change the Beijing I've gotten to know in my four years of cooking and living here. Wet markets have been moved indoors, plastic bags banned, and vendors wear green polo shirts to promote a neat, orderly atmosphere. Officials have inspected restaurant kitchens, awarding them grades from A to C, and ordered the creation of nonsmoking zones. Some officials have warned restaurants to limit the amount of alcohol they serve to each guest, and directed other eateries to post signs reading ''No Gambling'' and ''No Prostitution'' (which one restaurateur friend suggested might unsettle visitors rather than reassure them).
 Most of the new regulations do not improve the lives of locals. Only restaurants in areas popular with foreigners have been given hygiene ratings. Many restaurants, like a five-table eatery that I frequent, are too small for nonsmoking zones, and thus, in Chinese tradition, remain cloudy with tobacco haze. 
 I recently asked a good friend, a 60-year-old Beijing chef, if she was looking forward to the Olympics. As we walked down a back alley after a trip to the market, she told me that she did not have tickets to any of the events, and that she did not know anyone who does. 
 ''The Olympics and the lao bai xin'' -- the common folk -- ''are two separate things,'' she replied. ''I'm not concerned with the Olympics. I'm more worried about where I'm going to get my oil, rice, meat and vegetables.'' 
 Artistic Emergence
 Melissa Chiu is director of the Asia Society's museum in New York.
 The Olympics is a sporting event, first and foremost. But the Beijing Olympics has taken on a broader relevance within Chinese society. For most Chinese, they see this as a coming out, an acknowledgment of China's growing importance in the world. So the impact of the Olympics on the art world has meant that there are a number of new developments. I'm thinking specifically of museums and galleries that have announced openings in this Olympics year.
 Artists have been creating works since at least the late '70s that are experimental in nature and have pushed the limits of what authorities consider to be art. For so long it was difficult for artists to show their work in the public sphere. The authorities in major cities had difficulty in accepting experimental contemporary artists, especially performance art, installation art, things like that. But now you have a greater recognition of those artists in China.
 This recognition, interestingly enough, came first from outside China. But now there is greater domestic recognition, and artists, some of whom are superstars, are now able to show their work in museums. The artist Cai Guo-Qiang, for example, plans to have his solo exhibition at the National Museum of China. Ten years ago, this would have been impossible. His works might have been deemed controversial.
 Many people within China see this as an important moment: a blossoming of Chinese culture. Some people have compared this to a kind of cultural renaissance equaling the Tang dynasty, a pinnacle in China's artistic achievement. And I think there is a truth to this, that we are witnessing a moment of increasing sophistication and innovation in the Chinese art scene.
 A Delicate Balance
 Xu Guoqi is the author of ''Olympic Dreams: China and Sports, 1895-2008.''
 Weiji is a Chinese term for crisis. It consists of two characters, wei, or danger, and ji, or opportunity. The 2008 Olympic Games will be remembered as a weiji for China in spite of every effort by the Chinese to make this event a lucky one, including choosing to open the Games on the auspicious date of Aug. 8, 2008, at 8:08 p.m. 
 It is true that this mega-event might be the best opportunity ever for its host to show off its breathtaking progress in economy, social changes and China's can-do spirit. But the Games also present numerous dangers if Beijing messes it up. 
 Regardless of its image as a rising economic power, today's China is sitting on a living political volcano. Its society is anything but harmonious. Any social unrest has the potential to trigger serious and large-scale political protests. Beijing cannot afford to mishandle the protests, and it cannot cover them up because of the presence of the Games and concerns over its image abroad in this Olympic year. While Beijing is obviously excited about the ji the Games could bring to China, it seems to have ill-prepared itself for the wei that comes along. For Beijing, the best hope for the Games now is that the ji will surpass the wei. 
 But while the world is wondering what kind of Olympics China will deliver, few in the West seem to have realized the Games will present an Olympic-size weiji for the West, as well. The Games have provided Western politicians and the media with opportunities to closely scrutinize and even criticize China. 
 The Chinese, however, have been equally alert and perhaps oversensitive to any misinformation, hostility, mistreatment and mistakes the West might show or make in dealing with China over the Games. If the West mishandles Beijing's Olympic Games, the world might have to deal with an angry and nationalistic China for quite a long time. The damage to a healthy China-West relationship may be beyond repair. 
 The official slogan of the Beijing Games is One World, One Dream. It might be better read as One Game, Many Weiji. 
 What Is the Real China?
 Jason G. L. Chu, a second-generation Chinese-American, has spent the last two summers studying Mandarin in Beijing. He currently works in Seoul, South Korea.
 As a second-generation Chinese-American growing up with a dearth of cultural familiarity, my first exposure to Beijing came as one of the perennially rotating crowd of language immersion students. Amidst the framework of our effective -- if rigid -- curriculum of cultural and linguistic recital, the official China came vividly into view: gongyuanr, expansive public parks bursting at 6 a.m. with the elderly and their young charges; shichang, broad-ranging open-air markets; and the fast pace of jiang-jia, the desperately ritualized struggle between canny vendors and wary consumers.
 But, despite its unquestionable appeal, I now wonder whether the Beijing I saw then exists as current reality or is instead merely a wistful construct, born of the collaborative dreams of populist ideology and essentially sojourning foreign eyes.
 Halfway through that first summer in China, I met by chance encounter a tight-knit crew of Chinese rappers, fashion designers and sneaker connoisseurs. Our association has since flourished: I rap on their CDs and contribute English to their clothing lines; they call me lao gemenr, old friend.
 And this is the China I now know: an endless stream of chuanr, 12-cent sticks of flavorful barbecue, washed down with cold bottles of Tsingtao beer as my friends and I argue the merits of rap singles in our attention-garnering Sino-Anglic pidgin. I see Ziyan sticking his head out of the window at stoplights to yell ''Welcome to Beijing!'' at any Western pedestrians in the vicinity, laughing maniacally as we left surprised tourist faces gaping in our wake.
 The last time I was about to leave China, a fellow rapper and I discussed his views of the upcoming year. In his words: ''Aoyunhui gen wo you shenme guanxi?'' -- What has the Olympics to do with me?
 What, indeed? The Olympics, despite their status as economic and cultural stimulus, are not going to propel him and his peers in the growing Chinese middle class into the worldwide community any more than the Internet, the flourishing of ''Chinese socialist'' economics or our own bilateral cultural exchange already has.
 Instead, what Aoyunhui may do -- indeed, what I hope it will do -- is to reveal the China I know: not the monolithic bastion of otherness that outside eyes might hope for, but the complex mix of old and new, Eastern and Western, historical and traditional, that has been springing forth.
 Just the Beginning
 Benjamin Deng immigrated to the United States from China. He lives in Chinatown in Manhattan.
 I think the 2008 Beijing Olympics will solidify China's economic, political and cultural influence in the world. 
 So far, China has demonstrated huge financial capability to have successfully completed numerous unprecedented stadium projects, like the Bird's Nest and the Water Cube. It has exercised its political influence to help reach the seemingly impossible pact to peacefully dismantle nuclear facilities in North Korea, effectively bringing down the last Iron Curtain in Asia. It recently made historic direct flights between mainland China and Taiwan and reached an agreement with the United States government to allow Chinese tourists to travel to America with fewer restrictions, helping the sluggish U.S. economy. 
 China has successfully exported some of its cultures to the West -- as seen in the hugely successful movies ''Kung Fu Panda,'' and ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon''; the increasing popularity of Mandarin; and the record-breaking auction prices for Chinese contemporary arts and antiques. 
 All eyes will be on the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics on Aug. 8. It will be a defining moment for China because it will signal to the world the beginning of the China Century.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: China -- its people, its profile, its pride and its problems -- will be on display as it hosts the country's first Olympic Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Qianmen District through the haze. Pollution is a major concern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WONG/GETTY IMAGES )
Orderly or not, markets are a part of daily life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER WEIKIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
New subways are part of an effort to reduce Beijing's traffic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODED BALILTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Works by artists like Cai Guo-Qiang are gaining greater recognition at home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Chinese culture is reflected in popular movies like ''Kung Fu Panda.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREAMWORKS ANIMATION AND PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
 Lining up at a nightclub in Beijing, a trendy but traditional city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODED BALILTY/ASSOCIATED) PRESS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (86%); HISTORY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); SMOKING (60%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (98%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



103 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: An Acid-Tongued Maverick Keeps Bankers on the Edge of Their Seats

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Lutz, Fla., is on no one's list of world financial capitals. But from his home there on Tiffany Lane, 1,100 miles from Wall Street, Richard X. Bove can rattle the mighty of American banking.
 Lately some of his pronouncements have caused a few headaches for the nation's banks -- and for Mr. Bove, one of the most outspoken stock analysts tracking them.
 After a big bank in California collapsed in mid-July, Mr. Bove (pronounced Bo-VAY) rushed out a report with a provocative title: ''Who's Next?'' What followed was a list of 107 banks, ranked according to two measures of their financial strength. The share prices of some of the banks promptly collapsed.
 But No. 10 on the first list, BankAtlantic Bancorp of Fort Lauderdale, fired back. The bank said Mr. Bove's numbers were wrong -- and sued him and his employer, a small brokerage firm called Ladenburg Thalmann, for defamation. Mr. Bove would not comment on the suit. A lawyer for BankAtlantic said the bank planned to ask the judge to expedite the case. 
 The dispute over Mr. Bove's call is a big switch from the usual charge leveled at analysts, which is that most of them are not bearish enough. After the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, Wall Street was criticized for promoting stocks to win lucrative investment-banking work. Even now, amid the housing meltdown and gloomy talk of a recession, ''sell'' recommendations are relatively rare.
 But controversy is nothing new for Mr. Bove, 67, who has analyzed banking stocks for 26 years and become a familiar face on business news television. He has been fired twice during his career, once, from Dean Witter Reynolds, for advising investors to buy every bank stock they could (he was right -- after he was fired, bank stocks soared). By his own account, his worst call was telling people to dump banks in the 1990s, during the Bosnian war, only to watch the shares rise. 
 Since 2005, however, Mr. Bove has gained a certain reputation as one of the few bank analysts to predict the blow-up in the housing market and subsequent problems at many banks. He is also one of the few whose advice, if heeded, would have made money for investors over the past year. 
 Mr. Bove often berates bank executives -- ''egomaniacs,'' he calls many of them -- and the regulators who oversee them. He peppers his down-to-earth reports with phrases like ''yee-haw!'' and he says he does not care whether the banks like what he has to say. 
 Even so, after BankAtlantic complained that Mr. Bove based his analysis on incorrect figures -- he should have used the capital of the bank's holding company, rather than of the bank itself, BankAtlantic said -- Mr. Bove sent a note to clients explaining BankAtlantic's view. BankAtlantic is not among the 27 companies that Mr. Bove regularly covers.
 Fans of Mr. Bove are stunned by the uproar over his list. 
 ''I'm pretty shocked, actually,'' said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management, a hedge fund based in Palm Beach, Fla. ''He is amongst the best pure security analysts, quite frankly, that I've ever met. He does not mince words, but his comments are founded on strong analysis.''
 Mr. Bove, for his part, says it is not his job to worry whether banks like his reports.
 ''I don't give a damn about what the company thinks,'' he said by phone from his home office in Lutz. ''It's my job to think about: is this a good stock to buy or not? It's the bank's job to worry about their business.''
 On a typical day, Mr. Bove starts work at 6 a.m. and keeps at it till 9 or 10 p.m. He turns out 500 to 600 reports a year. He works out of his home because his wife has multiple sclerosis and has lost her eyesight. He calls himself ''a total nerd'' because all he does is work and spend time with his seven children and 13 grandchildren. 
 But Mr. Bove is also something of a maverick. In the last few months, he has suggested that Morgan Stanley might have avoided its current problems if the company had not pushed out Philip J. Purcell as chief executive in favor of John J. Mack. He criticized Citigroup's chief financial officer for disclosing information about write-downs during a conference call. And he accused Merrill Lynch of disclosing inadequate financial information in a recent press release. 
 Clearly Mr. Bove is not afraid of making enemies. Back in 2005, when he came out with his initial negative outlook on the housing market, a television anchor warned him that he might not have a job much longer. Soon afterward, Mr. Bove began downgrading the banks he covered, eventually putting a sell on 60 percent of them, even as others dismissed his prediction that ''this powder keg is going to blow.''
 ''I was convinced that the financial industry was out of control,'' Mr. Bove said. ''It just smelled, it looked, it felt like this thing was going to crash. And we kept pounding on it.''
 Mr. Bove grew up in New York City and got his start in finance in 1965, as a salesman for Blyth Eastman Dillon. He jumped to Wertheim & Company in 1972, where he worked as a construction industry analyst, and after a few other jobs in New York, he moved to St. Petersburg, Fla., in 1994, to join Raymond James.
 He switched to covering banks in 1982, he says, because construction was in decline. ''You'd be sitting around telling folks why things were no good,'' he says. ''It wouldn't be any fun.''
 Mr. Bove thinks he has an edge over most analysts when it comes to speaking the truth. At larger companies, he was pressured to tone down his criticism. Five years ago, he moved to Punk Ziegel & Company, a small firm that Ladenburg Thalmann purchased last spring. 
 ''Here I can say what I want about Citigroup, when I want, and as long as I'm honest, they don't care,'' Mr. Bove says. ''I just want to write what I want to write and that's it.''
 Sometimes, he mixes in humor. For instance, after Citic Securities, an investment company owned by the Chinese government, bought a stake in Bear Stearns last fall, he wrote: ''Jimmy Cayne, Bear's C.E.O., may start wearing red suspenders and playing Mah Jong instead of bridge.''
 Mr. Bove remains negative on the prospects for investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. But he has upgraded several commercial banks this year. He thinks banks are healthier because of the new capital they have raised and because investors have pushed their stocks too low. But, once again, he is pushing against the grain -- and he has yet to be proved right.
 ''Again, I'm early, and I'm fighting against the trends,'' he says. ''But the fact is that banks are too cheap.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); LIBEL & SLANDER (75%); RANKINGS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); JUDGES (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: BBX CAPITAL CORP (83%)

TICKER: BBX (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



104 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: McCain Takes a Page From Clinton's Playbook

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
At times this spring, it appeared that Senator Barack Obama's fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton would never end. In important ways, it hasn't.
 Instead, Mr. Obama has watched Senator John McCain pick up central strands of Mrs. Clinton's approach, and amplify them. In exaggerated form, Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, has adopted her attitude toward Mr. Obama's emergence (disdain), employed the same core argument against him (unproven and risky) and singled out his lingering electoral vulnerabilities (older voters, Rust Belt whites) in a contest where the Democrat's race forms the backdrop.
 Two months after it began, Round 2 has yielded a similar result as in the Democratic primaries. Mr. Obama retains a lead in public opinion polls, but it has not been very big. 
 Yet key elements of Mr. McCain's offensive, and Mr. Obama's response, may resonate differently than in the Obama-Clinton duel. The general election outcome may turn on which side better adapts to those differences. 
 McCain Swings Harder
 Establishment candidates typically use risk arguments to fend off dashing insurgents promising change. It didn't work for President Jimmy Carter against Ronald Reagan in 1980; it did for Walter F. Mondale against Gary Hart in Democratic primaries four years later.
 When Mr. McCain frames a choice between ''the right change and the wrong change,'' older Republicans hear echoes from 1972. The choice, President Richard Nixon asserted then of his race against George McGovern, ''is between change that works and change that won't work.''
 The fervor inspired by Mr. Obama's history-making candidacy poses challenges. Just as it partially obscured Mrs. Clinton's own assault on the glass ceiling limiting women in politics, it has overshadowed Mr. McCain's war-hero biography and reputation as a maverick.
 Mrs. Clinton assailed Mr. Obama as a novice offering ''just words,'' questioned his ability to respond to a wee-hours national security crisis and threw down shots in a bar to court white working-class voters. She embraced a gas-tax ''holiday,'' derided by energy experts and editorialists, in arguing that she better understood the travails of ordinary Americans.
 At various points, news reports questioned her tactics and suggested that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, had injected race into the campaign by likening Mr. Obama to the Rev. Jesse Jackson. The Clintons complained in turn of news media bias.
 Bitter feelings remain. In a Washington Post interview over the weekend, Mr. Clinton offered cursory praise for his party's presumed nominee; the Obama team has made it clear that Mrs. Clinton isn't likely to become his running mate.
 But McCain advisers paid close attention to the strong finish of a Clinton primary campaign that fell just short of defeating Mr. Obama. ''The most important thing we learned is this: Hillary Clinton won 8 of the last 13 primaries,'' said Steve Schmidt, Mr. McCain's top strategist. ''He is beatable.''
 So Mr. McCain has ratcheted up his attacks, mocking his Senate colleague as a Paris Hilton-like ''celebrity,'' questioning his readiness to lead as commander in chief, calling for expanded offshore oil drilling in addition to a gas-tax holiday, and elevating attention to Mr. Obama's African-American heritage by accusing him of playing ''the race card.'' As journalists question his tactics -- for example, directly disputing a McCain advertisement claiming that Mr. Obama sought to bring television cameras on a visit to wounded soldiers -- McCain aides assert the press is in ''love'' with him.
 McCain advisers see solid strategic reasons for swinging harder than Mrs. Clinton did. Press-bashing has united Republicans for more than a generation. If many Democratic primary voters get squeamish at the specter of racial polarization, many culturally conservative swing voters that Mr. McCain needs in states like Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan do not.
 To some degree, Republicans feel compelled by public opinion to adopt an aggressive stance. The electorate's desire for change is robust enough, polls indicate, that questions about Mr. Obama may represent the principal barrier to Democratic victory in November. 
 No Self-Referendum
 Obama advisers say their task lies partly in reassuring voters that he can handle the presidency. But another part lies in redoubling their efforts, interrupted by his overseas trip, to move Mr. Obama out from behind speechmaking lecterns and to convey his on-the-ground understanding of voters' economic struggles. He will try to do so this week in Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, among other places. Mr. McCain will hit Michigan and Ohio as well as Pennsylvania, with an appearance at the Sturgis, S.D., motorcycle rally to underscore his blue-collar sensibilities. 
 David Axelrod, the chief strategist for the Obama campaign, said voters ''have to get more comfortable'' with Mr. Obama. ''As they see him, hear him, that will help. But ultimately they're less interested in our biography than their own.''
 Other Democrats say Team Obama must also redirect the spotlight onto his Republican rival. ''No candidate ever wins a referendum on himself,'' said the Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, who advised Mrs. Clinton. ''He needs to make the election about McCain, too.''
 By doing so, Mr. Obama stands a better chance of capitalizing on the most obvious way the general election battle is more auspicious for him. On touchstone issues like taxes, health care and the Iraq war, Mr. McCain remains aligned with a Republican president whose approval rating continues to hover around 30 percent, while public opinion polls seem to favor Mr. Obama on many issues.
 That offers Mr. Obama a line of argument unavailable in his duel with Mrs. Clinton, whose policy stances closely resembled his own.
 ''Hillary had a very positive substantive policy agenda,'' said Howard Wolfson, a top Clinton adviser. ''The American people still don't know what John McCain would do as president of the United States other than continue George Bush's policies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WOMEN (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); GENDER EQUALITY (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); MEDIA BIAS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JESSE JACKSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



105 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE HOT SEAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Senate Rematch in New Climate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: NASHUA, N.H. 

 BODY:
The maverick voters of New Hampshire love to keep politicians guessing. 
 But this state, famous for its libertarian mojo, has shifted so hard toward the Democrats in recent years that no place may be more emblematic of a national political climate in which Republican incumbents like Senator John E. Sununu are battling to keep their jobs. 
 With Democrats gunning to expand their control of the Senate, Mr. Sununu, whose seat has been in Republican hands for 30 years, faces a grueling rematch against former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen. It is a contest in which eagerness to replace President Bush looms large and voters say the battered economy is their chief concern. 
 ''I think everything needs change, a fresh start, fresh ideas,'' said Meg Halley, 49, a software support technician, who stopped to greet Mrs. Shaheen on Main Street here one recent afternoon. ''The economy, the environment, the price of gas, education, health care,'' Ms. Halley said, listing her concerns. ''It's hard to say things are working.'' 
 Such sentiments, reflected in opinion polls nationally, are fueling the Democrats' belief that they can oust Mr. Sununu and run competitively in up to 10 other states in a quest to push their slim 51 to 49 Senate majority as close as possible to a filibuster-proof 60 seats -- a goal they rank second only to Senator Barack Obama's winning the White House. 
 Since the first Sununu-Shaheen contest in 2002, New Hampshire Republicans have lost an 11-point edge among registered voters. Each party now has 31 percent of the electorate, with 38 percent undeclared. In the state's presidential primaries this year, 62 percent of independents who voted chose a Democrat. 
 Still, beating Mr. Sununu will not be easy. At 43, he is the youngest senator and, many of his colleagues say, one of the smartest. An M.I.T.-educated engineer with an M.B.A. from Harvard, he may be a symbol of Republican vulnerability, but he also represents incumbency's inherent advantages, not the least being his $5.1 million war chest. 
 Mrs. Shaheen, 61, who in 1996 was the first woman elected as New Hampshire's governor, is an archetype of the high-profile candidates that Democrats have put forward this year in hopes of seizing on a built-in numerical advantage: Republicans must defend 23 Senate seats, including 5 left open by retirements, while Democrats have just 12 seats up with not a single vacancy. 
 Besides Mrs. Shaheen, other battle-tested Democrats include two former governors, Mark R. Warner of Virginia and Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi, and Representatives Mark Udall of Colorado and Tom Udall of New Mexico, who are cousins. 
 And in Alaska, Mark Begich, the Democratic mayor of Anchorage, is now favored to knock out the Republican, Senator Ted Stevens, who was indicted by a federal grand jury last week on charges of failing to disclose more than $250,000 he received from an oil services company.
 Senator John Ensign of Nevada, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, conceding the grim political map, has said it would be a good election night if his party lost only four seats. 
 Democrats are betting on a bigger bounty. ''New Hampshire is one of the five seats we expect to win,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the head of the party's campaign efforts, boasted at the Capitol last week.
 The New Hampshire race is shaping up as a bare-knuckle bout featuring two veteran, polished candidates who know the terrain -- and each other -- well. It is already heavy on policy, with clashes over the economy, health care, the Iraq war, national security, and their records in Congress and the State House. 
 Mr. Sununu dismisses Mrs. Shaheen as a hopeless liberal who blindly follows the playbook of Democratic strategists in Washington. ''Jeanne Shaheen read the press release from Chuck Schumer, she didn't read the legislation and she came out for the wrong bill,'' he said recently, criticizing her position on a Medicare bill.
 Mrs. Shaheen, in turn, pounds on Mr. Sununu's close ties to Mr. Bush and his voting record, which she says has supported the White House 90 percent of the time. ''The policies of George Bush and John Sununu,'' she said, ''have been out of step from where the voters of New Hampshire are.'' 
 In recent days they have pummeled each other on energy policy, particularly over the Republican proposal to lift a moratorium on offshore oil drilling.
 The candidates are appealing to voters in a state where consumer confidence has fallen and economic anxiety is high, despite blossoming high-tech and health care industries that have kept unemployment relatively low. 
 So far, Mrs. Shaheen seems to have an edge. She has been ahead in the polls for more than a year, often by double digits, though one recent survey had her up by just four percentage points, a statistical dead heat. 
 Her campaign has also been spending more than Mr. Sununu's and has just $2.1 million left on hand, according to the most recent campaign finance reports. National Democrats are expected to spend heavily on her behalf. 
 Mr. Sununu, projecting supreme confidence, has only recently begun to campaign in earnest and is said to be readying an advertising blitz for after Labor Day, when voters will begin paying more attention. 
 He may also benefit from sharing the ballot with Senator John McCain, who won the Republican presidential primaries here in 2000 and 2008. Mrs. Shaheen is now coordinating with Mr. Obama's campaign. 
 ''It's probably the best test out there of a political climate being a Republican incumbent's worst enemy,'' said Jennifer Duffy of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. ''He does constituent service. He shows up to work. He votes. He brings home the bacon. There are not a lot of inherent things wrong with John Sununu except that he is a Republican.''
 Felicia Concepcion, 32, a jewelry store owner from Hudson, N.H., said she had no complaints about Mr. Sununu but would not vote for him. ''I don't think he's too bad,'' Ms. Concepcion said. ''But with the economy going the way it has been going the last few years, nobody in any office looks too good right now.'' 
 Mr. Sununu, whose father was a White House chief of staff under the first President Bush, portrays himself as an independent voice for New Hampshire who stood up to the current president in numerous legislative battles, like arguing for changes to the Patriot Act and blocking the administration's 2003 energy plan. 
 ''That kind of effective leadership will be contrasted -- by the media, by me, by others -- to the things she failed to do as governor,'' Mr. Sununu said. 
 He said she failed to deal with the state's education financing problems, a continuing issue, and he also attacked her handling of tax policy. ''She raised spending to record levels, which I think people have come to expect from liberal Democrats,'' he said. 
 Mrs. Shaheen casts herself as representing the change that voters crave these days. ''When I am out on the campaign trail, talking to people in New Hampshire, I don't hear people say we need to elect a Democrat,'' she said. ''What I hear them say is we need to change the direction of this country.'' 
 Mr. Sununu has also been a frequent target of Senate Democratic leaders, who at times force votes to put Republicans in a political bind. He shrugs off the tactic, saying, ''What's important is that you cast a vote that is based in principle.'' 
 Neither Mrs. Shaheen nor Mr. Sununu is an electrifying campaigner. He looks like an engineer with a preppy wardrobe and seems to sprint everywhere he goes. She favors colorful suits and has a kindly but serious demeanor.
 When they first ran against each other six years ago, Mrs. Shaheen was a three-term governor, and Mr. Sununu was a three-term congressman and a rising Republican star. American troops had not yet invaded Iraq, and Mr. Bush, then popular, campaigned for him. 
 Mr. Sununu won 51 percent to 47 percent, by a margin of 19,751 votes. A Republican also won the governorship that year. 
 Since then, however, the party's strength in New Hampshire has dwindled. In 2004, Senator John Kerry won the presidential vote, and John Lynch, a Democrat, was elected governor. In 2006, Democrats rode a wave of discontent to a major sweep of state and federal offices.
 Some analysts believe that the 2006 cycle was an aberration and that Democrats were helped by the ability to vote a straight ticket for one party, a longtime practice in New Hampshire balloting that was ended this year. 
 But even without the straight ticket, Mike Caulfield, a co-founder of bluehampshire.com, a political Web site, said he expected Mrs. Shaheen to win.
 ''People kind of treasure their indecision,'' he said of New Hampshire residents. ''They kind of hold on to it much longer than people in other places might. But if 2006 is any guide, the independents will break very hard for the Democrats.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Senate race in New Hampshire between Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, and the Republican incumbent, John E. Sununu, misstated, in some editions, Mrs. Shaheen's position in this year's Democratic presidential primary. She remained neutral; she did not support Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
A chart last Monday with an article about the Senate race in New Hampshire referred incorrectly, in some editions, to the incumbent Republican who Democrats hope can be defeated by Jeanne Shaheen. As an accompanying picture showed, the New Hampshire senator, John E. Sununu, is a man.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, meeting Felicia Concepcion last month while campaigning in Nashua, (PHOTOGRAPH BY N.H. JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator John E. Sununu, a Republican, defeated Mrs. Shaheen to win his seat in 2002. They are facing off again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) CHART: Top Prospects for the Democrats: Here is a look at eight states where Democrats think they have the greatest chance of picking up additonal Senate seats. (Source: Cook Political Report
 news reports)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FILIBUSTER (73%); MAYORS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GRAND JURY (50%)

PERSON: JEANNE SHAHEEN (90%); JOHN SUNUNU (90%); MARK UDALL (78%); MARK WARNER (78%); TOM UDALL (58%); TED STEVENS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (88%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



106 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: How To Pick A V.P.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
When you try to talk with McCain staffers about vice-presidential prospects, as I did last week, the normally garrulous become guarded and the usually talkative turn taciturn. Still, here's what I was able to discern.
 John McCain apparently intends to announce his pick after the Democratic convention. There's been thought given to announcing McCain's selection the day after Barack Obama's Thursday night Aug. 28 acceptance speech, to try to minimize Obama's postconvention bounce.
 But the current inclination is to wait until after Labor Day weekend, which ends with President Bush's speech Monday, the first night of the G.O.P. convention. Then the McCain camp would hope to seize attention Tuesday with the V.P. announcement. A strong pick, followed by the V.P. nominee's remarks Wednesday and then McCain's speech Thursday, could provide a good launch into the last 60 days of the campaign. 
 So, who would be a strong pick? Some V.P. candidates fit one theory of the campaign, others another. And there seem to be at least four competing theories in the McCain camp, which, while not entirely mutually exclusive, point in different vice-presidential directions.
 1. We're going to defeat Obama straight up.
 If McCain is ahead of or close to Obama in the polls, there will be a strong temptation to do no harm with the V.P. choice. The leading noncontroversial selections -- broadly acceptable to Republicans, conservative but not too conservative, young but not too young -- are Tim Pawlenty, the second-term governor of Minnesota, and Rob Portman, former Ohio congressman, Bush trade representative and budget director.
 2. We need to accentuate Obama's key vulnerability -- inexperience.
 If McCain's central theme is going to be that he's ready and Obama isn't, he needs a running mate who reinforces that message -- someone experienced who'd be seen as ready to govern. This points to former rival Mitt Romney, whom McCain has come to respect, or former Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge, whom McCain likes. It's true that Ridge is pro-choice, which might be a problem. Or could the pick of Ridge signal to independents that McCain is broadening the party, while pro-lifers could be reassured that Ridge would defer to President McCain in this area?
 3. Don't fight the public desire for change; co-opt it.
 The public wants change but is nervous about Obama. Why not allow people to vote for experience and the next generation of leadership at the same time?
 This implies a young and different V.P.: the 37-year-old governor of Louisiana, Bobby Jindal; 44-year-old Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska; or Eric Cantor, the 45-year-old Virginia congressman. Party pros would have fainting spells about the unseasoned Jindal and Palin in particular -- but party pros are often wrong, and if Jindal or Palin performed well as candidates, the upside would be considerable.
 The two young governors also have this advantage: They're very popular with conservatives, especially social conservatives. And they're real reformers. They've begun to do in Baton Rouge and Juneau what many voters would like to see done in Washington. Principled conservatism and vigorous reform could be a winning combination.
 4. The public is really sick of politics as usual in Washington.
 In his convention speech, McCain could say something like this:
 ''I will give you a reform administration that will put politics aside to work for all Americans. I pledge to turn the page on 16 years of often petty and mean-spirited partisanship so we can tackle the big challenges we face. So I pledge that neither I nor my vice president will seek re-election. Neither I nor my vice president will spend a day, an hour, a minute campaigning or raising money -- not for ourselves nor for anyone else. There will be no political office in my White House -- there will be no place for a Dick Morris, or (with all due respect) a Karl Rove.''
 This opens up several unconventional V.P. possibilities. They include some who would reinforce the notion of a war presidency above politics, like Senator Joe Lieberman and Defense Secretary Robert Gates. Or perhaps someone with economic or domestic policy expertise -- like New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, old McCain friend and FedEx C.E.O. Fred Smith or new McCain insider and former EBay C.E.O. Meg Whitman. 
 Most of the campaign staff strongly prefers a selection from the first two categories -- do no harm or reinforce experience. McCain himself, on the other hand, is intrigued by the bolder possibilities of youth or bipartisanship.
 And he could be especially intrigued by Sarah Palin and Meg Whitman. I run into plenty of moderate and conservative women who don't consider themselves feminists but would be pleased to see a qualified woman on the ticket. 
 Especially if Obama picks a man, rejecting hope and change in favor of the same old patriarchy -- won't McCain be tempted to say: cherchez la femme? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US LABOR DAY (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); ERIC CANTOR (54%); ROB PORTMAN (50%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%); TIM PAWLENTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



107 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Union Divided Against Itself, Even as It Takes a Stand

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The quest by the Screen Actors Guild for a sharply improved labor contract has a new plot line: mutiny.
 Infuriated by hard-line tactics used by SAG leaders in contract talks with Hollywood's largest studios -- talks that broke down a month ago -- a less militant collection of actors has started a campaign to take over the guild. ''What has been happening so far is not working,'' said Kate Walsh, the star of ''Private Practice'' on ABC and a member of the dissident faction.
 On Tuesday, SAG is expected to recognize members of the group as candidates for 11 openings on its national board. The hard-liners who currently control the board and set the tone of negotiations will also put up candidates. Ballots go out later this month, and results are to be announced Sept. 19. 
 The arrival of the long-scheduled elections puts SAG leaders in the awkward position of trying to convince the studios that they have the unwavering support of members while facing a referendum on their strategy. Alan Rosenberg, president of the guild, is most displeased.
 ''It is not productive to come out and attack leadership during a negotiation,'' Mr. Rosenberg said in an interview Friday. Asked if leaders might have made mistakes in the negotiations, he said: ''It's a lie! We haven't bungled anything. We've been doing a phenomenal job.''
 SAG has rarely passed up an opportunity for infighting, but the latest bout drags the broader industry into the fray. Studios, which gave the union a final offer on June 30, say that no movement on a contract will occur until after the election. So that means another two months of uncertainty, something that has slowed movie production to a near standstill.
 The insurgent group, which calls itself Unite for Strength, said that even if it wins, the studios should not assume that the negotiations would swing in their favor. ''Everyone is absolutely interested in striking the most aggressive deal possible,'' said Ned Vaughn, a group leader whose resume includes roles on ''24'' and the coming film ''Frost/Nixon.''
 Ms. Walsh, speaking on a break from taping ''Private Practice,'' agreed. ''It's not about being moderate or rolling over in contract talks,'' she said. ''It's about putting ourselves in the strongest position possible. Diplomacy is not weakness.''
 Some studios are trying to shrug it off, saying that SAG leaders do not hold enough political sway to call a strike (75 percent of the guild's 120,000 members would have to vote ''yes'').
 ''We have decided to continue to move forward with at least a number of our productions,'' said Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, in a conference call on Wednesday. He said the strategy would continue ''until such time as we feel that's not prudent.'' Among the movies Disney has started to film are ''Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time,'' an adaptation of the popular video game.
 But other studios are proceeding more cautiously. Universal Studios declined to comment about any production set to begin in September or October. Sony said it had none, while Fox said just one picture was in the mix, the relatively low-budget ''Tooth Fairy,'' starring Dwayne Johnson, known as the Rock. Warner Brothers said productions were planned but refused to name any, citing incomplete casting.
 Contract talks broke off in early July after SAG leaders declared the producers' final offer unacceptable and offered a set of counterproposals. The guild agreed to accept parts of the offer -- including modestly higher health and pension contributions -- but dug in its heels on several larger issues. The studios responded by saying the offer on the table was not negotiable. 
 The dissident actors' group includes stuntmen and voice-over artists (one candidate provides the voice of Porky Pig), but few household names. Still, Norma Rae herself did weigh in on the group's behalf: Sally Field, who won an Oscar for her portrayal of the hard-charging union leader, has endorsed the Unite for Strength slate.
 The group is particularly upset about a feud between SAG leaders and the smaller American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. Earlier this year, Aftra decided to negotiate with studios independently from SAG for the first time in nearly 30 years. In response, SAG unsuccessfully campaigned to defeat the Aftra contract. Unite for Strength wants the two unions to reconcile and merge.
 If the dissident group wins a big enough majority -- a big if -- it could move to replace the guild's lead negotiator in the contract talks. 
 The faction that currently dominates SAG, known as Membership First, will offer its own candidates for the seats, including Keith Carradine (''Deadwood'') and Joely Fisher ('' 'Til Death''). 
 Ms. Walsh and her cohort are not alone in their criticism. David M. Smith, associate dean of Pepperdine University's business school and a labor economist, said SAG's strategy in the talks could be taught ''as lessons of what not to do.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about dissidents in the Screen Actors Guild who are seeking election to the union's national board misstated the date that election results will be announced. It is Sept. 18, not Sept. 19.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Rosenberg of the Screen Actors Guild said that ''it is not productive to come out and attack leadership during a negotiation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY CANHAM/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LACIE ARGYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (91%)

PERSON: KATE WALSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



108 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Recipe for Bipartisanship or Gridlock?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Be Afraid. Please,'' by William Kristol (column, July 28):
 Mr. Kristol exhorts readers ever so politely to ''be afraid'' of Barack Obama because of his use of the term ''change'' and his political friends in Congress. 
 Fear abounds. Is Mr. Kristol afraid that Mr. Obama might evolve into another John F. Kennedy, Bill Clinton or even Franklin D. Roosevelt? Oh my! 
 Well, I am afraid, too. Some Republicans like to say that ''America is a republic, not a democracy.'' Ronald Reagan spent years opposing the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
 But now that conservatives have discovered the charm of democracy, this has given them some new opportunities. George W. Bush is even talking about founding an institute to promote democracy in the world. Now that is really something to be afraid of.
 William W. Goetz Bedminster, N.J., July 28, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 William Kristol tells us that Barack Obama lacks substance, is scarily popular, and if elected will be -- heaven help us -- a Democrat. 
 Republicans have failed to stop Mr. Obama's steady march to the White House by simply ignoring his detailed descriptions of the policies he would put in place -- including, during his speech in Berlin, his promise to abandon a failed policy of American unilateralism in favor of cooperation with our European allies.
 So they are reduced to arguing that Americans should vote for John McCain to ensure bipartisanship in Washington in the likely event that Democrats continue to control Congress.
 Bipartisanship is merely another word for ''cooperation,'' and there is no evidence that Senator McCain, who has embraced the platform of the Republican right, will cooperate with a Democratic Congress on enacting health care legislation, repealing tax cuts, fixing Social Security or ending the war in Iraq. Indeed, the last thing we need in Washington is more obstruction by a Republican White House.
 Moreover, the crowds that have enthusiastically embraced Senator Obama, both here and abroad, have sent a clear message that people have had enough of neoconservatives, right-wing fundamentalists and old warriors with worn-out policies and welcome a candidate with a global perspective and constructive ideas. 
 When Mr. Kristol wakes up the day after the election, he will find that not only has he awakened from his dream of a McCain victory, but that America has awakened from the long nightmare of Republican leadership.
 Rita C. Tobin Chappaqua, N.Y., July 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Every citizen should be concerned when our government is controlled by one party, as it results in a loss of critical checks and balances. The latter years of the current presidency would have been even more disastrous if the opposition party had not taken control of one and then both houses of Congress.
 If the Democrats run the table in November, we can expect a cultural revolution in this country, as the radical wing of the party asserts itself in every aspect of our lives. This would result in a transfer of wealth that would be devastating to our economy. 
 Overemphasis on civil liberties would greatly dilute our police forces and our ability to fight foreign enemies. Taxes would be increased to support a social agenda with no boundaries. Our country would become more litigious, more insular and more dominated by special interests.
 A powerless opposition party would not be good for America in 2009, or any other time for that matter.
 Salvatore J. Bommarito New York, July 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thank you to William Kristol. No one could have boiled down the 2008 Republican message better. As the headline for his column said: ''Be Afraid. Please.''
 This is the same fear as in 2002, 2004 and 2006, only now with the surface sheen of manners. I hope no one will buy it.
 Rob Shapiro Los Angeles, July 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol is fearful that Barack Obama, as president, will get a Democratically controlled Congress with a rubber stamp. 
 Did Mr. Kristol feel the same way just a few short years ago when a Republican-controlled Congress was falling all over itself to give President Bush whatever he asked for?
 Robert M. Prowler Pompano Beach, Fla., July 28, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OPEN, N.Y) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTION LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008



109 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Guns and Poppies

 BODY:
In the morass that is Afghanistan, not just the Taliban are flourishing. So too is opium production, which increasingly finances the group's activities. There is no easy way to end this narcotics threat, a symptom of wider instability. Even a wise and coordinated plan of attack would take years to bear real results. But the United States and the rest of the international community are failing to develop one. They must work harder, smarter and more cooperatively to rescue this narco-state.
 The scope of the problem is mind-numbing. Opium production mushroomed in 2006 and 2007, and Afghanistan now supplies 93 percent of the world's heroin, with the bulk going to users in Europe and Russia. According to official figures, the narcotics trade rakes in about $4 billion a year, which is about half of Afghanistan's gross domestic product. It strengthens the extremist forces that American and NATO troops are fighting and dying to defeat; it undermines the Afghan state they are trying to build; and it poisons drug users across Europe, where many people do not see Afghanistan as their problem and leaders are shamefully ignoring the connection. 
 Last week, the United Nations reported an alarming new development: Afghan drug lords are recruiting foreign chemists, mostly from Turkey, Pakistan and Iran, to help turn raw opium into highly refined heroin. Doing so adds value and lethality to the product they export. 
 American, European, Afghan and United Nations officials have sabotaged their mission by continuing to bicker over why poppy cultivation has skyrocketed, what to do about it and who should act. In a particularly damning indictment in The Times Magazine, Thomas Schweich, a former State Department official, blamed corrupt Afghan officials, internal policy divisions and the reluctance of American and NATO military to take on counternarcotics roles, as much as the Taliban.
 Mr. Schweich should have pointed a finger at President Bush for the fundamental failure in Afghanistan. Mr. Bush put too few resources into the country after 9/11, then left the aftermath to NATO and various warlords while America shifted focus to the disastrous war of choice in Iraq. The results: a Taliban and Al Qaeda resurgence coupled with historic poppy crops.
 It is very good news that 20 of Afghanistan's 34 provinces may soon be free of poppy cultivation, but that means production is overwhelmingly concentrated in the south, largely in Helmand Province, where the Taliban are strongest and the government is weakest. 
 Mr. Schweich's main recommendation -- to aggressively eradicate poppy crops by aerial spraying -- is politically untenable and of questionable value. Other things can be done, or done better, including building a criminal justice system that can prosecute major drug traffickers and having American and NATO forces play a more robust role in interdiction. The Afghan and American governments have broken ground on a new airport and agricultural center in Helmand -- an encouraging attempt to help farmers shift from poppies to food crops.
 Allegations that President Hamid Karzai protects officials and warlords in the trade are troubling. Washington and its allies must press him to address this problem. They also should seize assets and ban visas for major traffickers who have homes outside Afghanistan. 
 Longer term, the answer lies in a consistent, integrated and well-financed plan to establish security throughout Afghanistan, put kingpins in jail, develop a market economy and a functioning government in Kabul, and rapidly expand incentives for smaller farmers to stop growing poppies. It is all one more daunting Bush administration legacy that will be left for the next president to fix.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (91%); TALIBAN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEROIN (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DRUG INTERDICTION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (63%); AIRPORTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



110 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: To Keep Pace With Growing Demand, Con Ed Struggles to Build Substations

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Not long after a brightly colored building in the South Bronx opened last year, a visitor rang the doorbell at the security gate to ask when the condominiums inside were going on sale.
 They were not, for one simple reason: the building housed a $300 million Con Edison substation. 
 Years ago, few would have mistaken a substation for an impressive apartment building, especially in a neighborhood like Mott Haven, filled with warehouses and factories. But the substation there, with its red and tan brick exterior, faux windows and canopied entrance, certainly does not look like a hub for 345-kilovolt cables, multimillion-dollar transformers and circuit breakers.
 The building's urban camouflage is typical of the lengths that Con Edison must go to these days to appease neighbors when constructing substations, where high-voltage electricity is reduced to lower voltages and distributed locally. At the Parkview substation in Harlem, which opened this year, the utility helped fix a park and hired local workers during construction. In the Bronx, the company used local merchants to provide materials. 
 Con Edison plans to spend billions of dollars to complete eight more substations by 2017 as it tries to keep up with electricity demand, which it expects to increase 10 percent in New York City during the next decade. Yet the shortage of industrial land, rising real estate prices and opposition from neighbors are making it more difficult for the utility to find suitable locations.
 ''It's a race to keep up with the load,'' said Sanjay Bose, Con Edison's vice president of substation operations, sitting in the control room of the Mott Haven station, which in addition to supplying low-voltage power to nearby residents also feeds high-voltage electricity to other parts of the city. ''And the moment people know we are looking for land, the price goes up. They think we are a money pit. Zoning makes it very, very difficult, too.''
 Substations are critical because they boost supply in neighborhoods where new apartment buildings and office towers strain existing networks. The utility, which runs 98 substations in New York and Westchester County, sometimes moves customers to less-burdened networks to avoid having to build a new facility.
 But those measures may only delay the construction of a substation in fast-growing neighborhoods. Con Edison's construction schedule, it turns out, provides a window into the city's shifting demographics.
 Next year, Con Edison will open the $146 million Astor substation on the West Side of Manhattan, partly to serve the apartment towers that have opened on 42nd Street and along 10th and 11th Avenues.
 In 2011, it plans to open three new substations: the York substation on the Upper East Side ($302 million); the Academy substation in Upper Manhattan ($375 million); and the Newtown substation on the Brooklyn-Queens border (about $200 million). Four more substations in Brooklyn and Manhattan are planned for 2016 and 2017.
 As a security measure after Sept. 11, Con Edison started using names instead of addresses to identify its substations. But residents know exactly where they are because the utility usually holds public hearings to address fears that real estate values will decline, air and noise pollution may increase and electromagnetic fields around substations could be dangerous. Strong opposition can slow an approval process by years.
 ''It's understandable that people would rather have a park than a substation,'' said Frank A. Felder, director of the Center for Energy, Economic and Environmental Policy at Rutgers University. ''They are perfectly safe, but people have no incentive to say yes.''
 Community Board 12 in Upper Manhattan, for example, pushed Con Edison to prove that it had adequately removed toxins that were suspected of being under the site of the planned Academy substation. The community board also took the issue to the State Public Service Commission, which ultimately approved the construction.
 According to Manny Velazquez, chairman of the community board, a commission report detailing conditions at the construction site showed high levels of arsenic, lead and mercury. Con Edison, he said, told the board it would comply with the appropriate regulations, but did not say what they were.
 ''We felt Con Edison needed an oversight because they basically can do whatever they want around the city,'' Mr. Velazquez said, adding that the utility did build some green space around the substation. ''We don't feel Con Ed dealt with the situation to the best of their abilities. I give them a passing grade, but not a great grade.''
 A spokeswoman for Con Edison, D. Joy Faber, said the Public Service Commission approved all the cleanup steps, adding, ''We also have been diligently communicating with the public and the board about all phases of the project.'' 
 Opposition from neighborhood groups is one reason Con Edison spends years -- more than half a decade in the case of the Mott Haven substation, which replaced a Farberware factory -- deciding where to build. At the end of every summer, and in quarterly meetings, planners look at how electricity demand has shifted and which parts of the network lacked capacity. The company also compiles 5- and 10-year forecasts for usage in its territory.
 Planners also look at alternatives, like shifting customers to less-used networks. Plans for substations that are penciled in can be altered depending on how forecasts change.
 About five years before Con Edison hopes to begin building, planners start looking for property that is zoned for industrial use, a difficult task in Manhattan and other densely populated parts of the city. Complicating matters, substations need to face a street on three sides and require plenty of space for equipment and no deed restrictions.
 John Banks, vice president for government relations at Con Edison, said that at one site in Midtown Manhattan about five years ago, the deed from the 19th century prohibited ''noxious'' activities on the property. Con Edison had to prove that its substations did not emit odors or pollute before it could buy the land.
 ''It's a tremendous amount of money to commit, so you want to make sure you are not wasting the money,'' Mr. Banks said.
 Con Edison's real estate agents then approach potential sellers without mentioning the company's name, so as not to drive up the price. Mr. Bose said that at one recently scouted location, a sign on the fence listed a sale price of $32 million. After Con Edison identified itself as the potential buyer, the price jumped to $49 million.
 Often, owners will refuse to sell, forcing Con Edison to build around a property. The Mott Haven substation wraps around a dry cleaning facility just feet from the front door.
 If Con Edison thinks a seller is asking too much, it can invoke the right of condemnation, which allows it to ask a judge to set a fair value, Mr. Banks said.
 Construction can take years. Large transformers are made overseas, and due to strong demand from China and India, Con Edison sometimes has to wait up to four years for a delivery, Mr. Bose said. Installing them has become more complicated because of recently toughened weight restrictions on city bridges and tunnels that require using special trailers to haul the transformers from the port. Circuit breakers that cost about $1 million each take five weeks to install.
 In the basement of the Mott Haven facility, Mr. Bose pointed to several feeder cables that have enough electricity ''to power a small Caribbean country.'' The cables sit in 10-inch stainless steel pipes surrounded by insulating liquids. To avoid leaks, the company buys specially made pipes without welds.
 ''They don't do next-day delivery,'' Mr. Bose said of the pipe manufacturers.
 The impact on the neighbors is considered, too. Vaults with 50-foot-high walls are topped with metal gratings to allow for natural ventilation and eliminate the need for noisy fans. Pumping rooms with 20,000-gallon tanks for insulating liquid sit in special moats in case there are any leaks.
 Con Edison hired the Switzer Group to design the exterior of the Mott Haven facility, and Kevin Burke, the utility's chief executive, approves each design. 
 Ultimately, the placing of substations comes down to winning over wary neighbors. ''By their very nature, substations are not very attractive facilities,'' said James Van Nostrand, executive director of the Pace Energy and Climate Center, a research group. ''But it's a necessary part of the growth process and a necessary component of the electrical system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Johnson, an operator at the new substation in Mott Haven, in the Bronx. It feeds low-voltage power to the neighborhood, and high-voltage power elsewhere.
Some of the Mott Haven feeder cables carry as much as 345 kilovolts. Circuit breakers can take 5 weeks to install. Pumps handle insulating liquid for the cables.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 To make the Mott Haven substation more inviting to its reluctant neighbors, it was dressed up with an exterior of red and tan brickwork and even given some fake windows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



111 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Member Of Commune Is Acquitted

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON; Ann Farmer and Maureen Seaberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A former member of what is believed to be New York City's only commune was found not guilty on Monday in the shooting of a co-founder of the commune.
 The former member, Rebekah Johnson, 45, was acquitted by a jury in State Supreme Court on Staten Island of second-degree attempted murder in the shooting of the co-founder, Jeffrey Gross, 53. He had identified Ms. Johnson as the person who aimed a handgun at him as he returned from a movie on May 29, 2006, and shot him repeatedly. He also said she stepped over him after he fell to the ground.
 The jury took less than five hours to clear Ms. Johnson, who had also been charged with assault and attempted grand larceny. 
 It was a sudden end to a case that involved a swirl of allegations not in the charges before the jury. Ms. Johnson had once sued Mr. Gross and the commune, claiming that she had been raped there. She also accused the commune of forcing some members to marry illegal immigrants and brainwashing others. She dropped her lawsuit; the police investigated the rape allegations and did not file charges.
 But Mr. Gross said that Ms. Johnson had pursued him after the commune evicted her in 1996. She was a fugitive for a year after the shooting and was featured several times on the crime-hunting television program ''America's Most Wanted.'' 
 ''Everything is over now -- the jury has said it all,'' The Associated Press quoted Ms. Johnson's mother, Margaret Johnson, as saying.
 Margaret Johnson said her daughter planned to leave New York and seek therapy after her traumatic experiences at the commune.
 The Staten Island district attorney, Daniel M. Donovan Jr., issued a one-sentence statement that said, ''While we respect the verdict of the jury, it is my belief that we presented a clear and compelling case which satisfied each element of the crimes for which Rebekah Johnson was indicted.''
 Mr. Gross summarized his reaction in three words: ''Stunned. Disbelief. Shock.''
 ''The evidence is overwhelming,'' he said. ''I was the eyewitness. She was 10 feet from me.''
 He was shot on the stairway leading to his home, one of 10 buildings owned by the Ganas commune, a group that sanctions wife-swapping among its 100 members but moved to evict Ms. Johnson in 1996. He said she ambushed him.
 ''I said to the court, 'I said to the jury, I immediately recognized it was Rebekah Johnson,' '' he said in a telephone interview on Monday, after the verdict. ''She had a gun pointed at me, I said, 'Please don't shoot,' '' and he watched her pull the trigger. ''I knew exactly who it was and I knew who it was as she climbed over me.'' 
 Ms. Johnson's lawyer, Stanford Bandelli, said he was satisfied with the outcome. He had tried to cast doubt on Mr. Gross's testimony. He said another witness had described hearing the shots and seeing a man, not a woman, run away. Mr. Bandelli had also questioned whether it was bright enough on the stairs for Mr. Gross to see his assailant clearly.
 A lawyer for Ganas, Edward W. Hayes, said he was surprised by the verdict. ''She lay in wait for this guy,'' he said, referring to Mr. Gross. He added, ''The Ganas community will continue to lead the peaceful and productive lives that they always have and will not criticize a verdict reached by their fellow citizens.''
 Ms. Johnson had been thrown out of Ganas twice for violating its rules. Ganas members said after the shooting that she had quit working at the commune-run thrift store and had stopped contributing to the group's finances. They said she waged a 10-year war against the commune before the shooting. 
 But the shooting also focused attention on Ganas itself, a community that opposes being described as a cult. Mr. Gross said it was civic-minded, and he emphasized his work on projects that he said had spurred economic development on Staten Island.
 At the commune itself, members were guarded after Monday's verdict. One woman was sitting on the porch of one of the commune's houses, drinking a glass of wine. Asked how she felt about Ms. Johnson's acquittal, she said, ''Talk to my lawyer.''
 A man with a towel came out on his way to go swimming and was asked the same question. ''I don't know,'' he said. 
 Mona Herbert, whose yard abuts one of the Ganas lots, said she was troubled by the jury's conclusion. ''I don't get it,'' she said. ''If she shot somebody like that, she's got to be guilty of something.'' 
 She said that she had seen a woman standing outside on the day of the shooting or the day before -- a woman in a winter coat and a scarf, overdressed for the warmth of late May. She also remembered hearing the shooting from her porch.
 ''I heard pop-pop-pop,'' she said. ''The guy was yelling, 'I've been shot, somebody help me.' '' Ms. Herbert said she called the police.
 Ms. Johnson was caught in Philadelphia last summer after she registered a car in her own name. In her apartment, the authorities found several driver's licenses under a variety of names. Her photograph, with one name, was on a license from Massachusetts and, with a different name, was on a license from Virginia. Eleven license plates from different states were found as well. 
 They also discovered an AK-47 assault rifle and thousands of rounds of ammunition, along with eight shooting-range targets -- silhouettes of a person, riddled with bullet holes. 
 And, in a bizarre coincidence, Mr. Gross said that he and Ms. Johnson turned up at the same hotel on Monday evening, hours after the acquittal.
 Mr. Gross, who no longer lives in the commune, said that he caught a glimpse of Ms. Johnson and her sister in the lobby of the Staten Island Hotel in Graniteville, where he has been staying. 
 It was not clear whether Ms. Johnson was staying there, too. The hotel said that it had guests registered under the name Johnson, but that none had the first name Rebekah.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rebekah Johnson after her acquittal in the shooting of Jeffrey Gross, a co-founder of a commune on Staten Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUITTAL (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); EVICTION (89%); MURDER (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



112 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: An Effort to Halt Unwanted Paper Deliveries

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Ann Farmer and Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In an era of spam, telemarketing, moving billboards and other forms of aggressive commercial solicitation, an old-fashioned form of advertising is surprisingly -- many say irritatingly -- resilient: fliers, restaurant menus and business cards slipped under the doors, wedged in door jambs or left on the stoops of houses and apartment buildings in New York City.
Until now, homeowners have had no recourse to block the unwanted paper, often called ''lawn litter'' because in neighborhoods with yards much of the paper ends up on the lawn. But on Saturday, the city started enforcing a recent state law that prohibits the placement of ''unsolicited papers, fliers, pamphlets, handbills, circulars or other materials advertising a business or soliciting business'' at homes in New York City if the property owner has posted a sign saying such materials are not wanted. Advertisers who violate the law face fines from $250 for a first offense to $1,000 for repeat violations. 
In menu-saturated neighborhoods, residents said on Monday that the fines might not be high enough. Although there was a sign reading ''No Fliers, Ads, Menus'' on the wrought-iron fence where Carmen Bucci lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, a menu from Papa John's Pizza was on the stoop, and a locksmith's card had been taped to her downstairs door buzzer.
''I've left that there for a reason, so when they do come back around, they'll see it there,'' she said of the paper-droppers. ''They're quite relentless. It's just to deter them from posting another. Our other option is to go to the merchant and ask them to stop, but I don't think it'll help.''
Gregory Sheppard, 46, an opera singer who lives on West 90th Street in Manhattan in a building without a live-in superintendent, said he was constantly picking up supermarket circulars, restaurant menus, locksmiths' cards and work requests from unemployed housekeepers. ''It's a great law,'' he said.
Under the new law, the property owner's sign must be at least five inches tall and seven inches wide, and display the following language in legible letters at least one inch high: ''Do Not Place Unsolicited Advertising Materials on This Property.'' (The city has provided a sample sign, which property owners can print, at nyc.gov, and an advocacy group, stoplawnlitter.org, is offering a free version, too.)
In multiple dwellings, signs can be put up indicating how many units want to receive unsolicited ads, and where. Signs are to be placed in visible areas like lawns or front doors.
Cesar Alcantara, superintendent of an apartment building at 307 West 93rd Street in Manhattan, said his ''No Menu'' signs had been consistently ignored and even, on occasion, removed.
''I always have to clean them up off the floor of the building,'' he said of the menus. ''Sometimes when the door is closed, they throw them in front. But if they get in, they'll stick them in everyone's door, and it's a big mess.''
Ralston Reid, 49, a superintendent in a building at 201 West 87th Street, said he did not mind the paper as long as it was in small quantities and not strewn about. He said he was more concerned about trespassers and people drinking or doing drugs in the hallways or on the stoop.
Business owners expressed displeasure with the law.
''It's not good,'' said Linda Chang, manager of the Hunan Wok, a Chinese restaurant in Park Slope. ''I believe I lose something, and the customer loses something, too. Some people enjoy the fliers. Not many people complain to us.''
Jerry Gong, a manger at Lemongrass Grill, a Thai restaurant at 2534 Broadway, said leaving menus in buildings was a good way to attract new customers. ''When people see our menu it gets them to give us a try,'' Mr. Gong said, adding that he would tell his delivery workers to check for a sign before leaving menus in a building.
The ''lawn litter'' legislation was sponsored by State Senator Frank Padavan and Assemblyman Mark S. Weprin, both of Queens, and became law on Jan. 1. Enforcement was delayed while the Sanitation Department developed rules. The law applies only to the five boroughs.
Starting on Saturday, property owners who receive unwanted advertisements will be able to fill out a citizen complaint form and mail it, along with the unwanted ads, to the Sanitation Department's enforcement office in Brooklyn.
Because the forms just became available, said Vito A. Turso, a department spokesman, officials did not expect to receive the first complaints for several days.
Mr. Turso said he put a sign up on the storm door of his one-family house in Ozone Park, Queens. Days after it went up, Mr. Turso said with a what-can-you-do laugh, ''there were two circulars stuffed inside my door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philip Aneduri hopes that the sign on his gate, available online, will deter delivery people from leaving promotional literature on his property.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TELEMARKETING (78%); EMAIL MARKETING (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); LOCKSMITHS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



113 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Small Debut on a World Stage

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Having inspired the international fashion world's name for bikini, the Marshall Islands will now join the international sporting world, competing for the first time in the Olympics. The Pacific nation's entire team of five athletes could fit around the dinner table, which seems somehow apropos, considering that its best athlete is a chef.
Anju Jason, a tae kwon do athlete who has spent most of his life in Hawaii, cooks for Panda Express, one of the largest chains serving Chinese fast food in the United States. He finds some culinary feng shui in the alignment of his job and the Summer Games in Beijing.
''It's pretty ironic,'' Jason, 20, said in a recent telephone interview. ''Like it's meant to be.'' 
The Marshall Islands, a scattering of islands and atolls (including Bikini) located about halfway between Hawaii and Australia, will field one of the smallest of the 205 teams competing in Beijing. The islands have gained visibility primarily as the site of post-World War II nuclear testing, not competitive running, jumping and swimming. The country's Olympic athletes, like its consumer goods and foodstuffs, are mostly imported.
The nation's running tracks are made of grass and only about four or five gyms house indoor basketball courts, according to Terry Sasser, the secretary general of the Marshall Islands National Olympic Committee, whose Web site contains no listings for national records and whose telephone number is disconnected. One of the Marshallese Olympians, a recent high school graduate from Washington State, has never been to the tiny island nation.
''The main thing with the Olympics is to show people that we exist,'' Jason said. ''No one knows about us.''
Olympic recognition came in 2006, allowing the Marshall Islands to begin receiving financing and training scholarships supplied by the International Olympic Committee. The approximately $100,000 received before the Beijing Games essentially amounts to the Marshallese Olympic committee's entire budget, Sasser said. Eventually, he hopes that $300,000 to $400,000 will flow in the annual pipeline to help develop sports programs and to train coaches and officials.
''We couldn't exist without the I.O.C.,'' Sasser said.
An agreement was recently signed with New Zealand television to bring the Beijing Games to the Marshall Islands. People are expected to gather to watch on large screens. Organized sports remain a nascent enterprise. Not until last year were the first Marshallese National Games held. Athletes were brought from far-flung areas to the capital, Majuro, aboard government transport ships.
Officials hope that the Olympics will help kick-start a movement to employ sports as a healthy diversion in a country of 63,000 residents where the median age is 21, unemployment is 30 percent, the per capita gross domestic product is $2,900 annually and assistance from the United States government is the lifeblood of the island economy. Last month, the Marshallese government declared a state of ''economic emergency,'' saying that spiraling fuel prices threatened to shut down power supplies and destabilize the country.
''High migration to the urban centers has resulted in a demand for education, employment, health and social services that far exceeds the capacity of the economy, current infrastructure and institutions to deliver,'' according to the 2006 annual report of the Marshall Islands Olympic Committee.
The country's youth feel anger, frustration and uncertainty, the report said, adding that surveys and studies indicate that the ''presence of sports in communities is a great deterrent from destructive behavior, and the crime rate is drastically reduced.''
Jason, the tae kwon do athlete, is the only one of the five Marshallese Olympians who qualified for the Beijing Games. The other competitors, with family ties to the country, received wild-card entries in track and field and swimming. Some have criticized this practice as ''Olympic tourism,'' but the I.O.C. and international sports federations say the Games' universal appeal can be broadened by including small nations, even if their athletes have not met qualifying standards.
''I guess it's O.K., in certain circumstances, like when it's a small country,'' Jason said. ''I think it would be better if they actually qualified, to show they were right for it.''
Born in the Marshall Islands, Jason left for Hawaii when he was 6, shepherded by an older sister, encouraged by a father who thought that Oahu would provide a chance at a better education and a better life for his children. Jason came to love watching Power Rangers on television, and when a flier arrived in the mail, advertising a tae kwon do academy, the kicking and punching seemed attractive to a 9-year-old. Eventually, he won local and state tournaments, but competing for the United States at the Olympics remained beyond Jason's reach, because he never became a citizen.
Then, last November, upon returning from a tournament in Oklahoma, Jason got a call from his instructor. The Marshall Islands were planning to compete in the Beijing Olympics. ''Is this a joke?'' Jason asked. It wasn't. He competed at a qualifying tournament in New Caledonia, defeated a competitor from Samoa and became the first Marshallese athlete ever to become eligible for the Olympics.
''It's a life-changing thing,'' Jason said. ''Before, I didn't really have anything to look forward to, nothing to inspire me to actually do good. This changed me. It made me want to find a way to make myself better.''
At 176 pounds, he will compete in the same weight class as Steven Lopez of the United States, a two-time Olympic champion. Jason's chances for a medal will depend, in no small part, on the draw before the competition. Before leaving for Beijing, he worked as a cook each day from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and then trained from 7 to 9 p.m. Panda Express will pay him for the time he is at the Olympics. He is crossing his fingers and hoping for the best.
''I want the medal, but they say that even if I don't have a medal, as long as I do my best, that's good,'' Jason said of Marshallese Olympic officials. ''I just want to show how hard-working we are. In Hawaii, there are a lot of racial groups. The Marshallese are looked down on a little. It's not as developed as Hawaii. But I want to show them that we are really good workers, that when we want to do something, we strive for it.''
After the Olympics, he says he plans to visit the Marshall Islands for the first time since 2005. Schoolchildren there have been writing to him: Do you have a girlfriend? Can you come and have breakfast with me? Shoot some hoops?
''I didn't realize how big it was,'' Jason said. ''It made me want to practice more, to do my best for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anju Jason, 20, a tae kwon do athlete, will represent the Marshall Islands in Beijing, the first Games for the nation. He also works as a cook for Panda Express, a Chinese fast-food chain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCO GARCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); WORLD WAR II (52%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); HAWAII, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



114 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: East Village, Before the Gentry

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Over the last 15 years Q. Sakamaki, a Japanese photographer living in New York, has forged a reputation as a documentarian of conflict and suffering. From the civil war in Liberia to the misery of sex workers in Bangladesh, he creates pictorial narratives of the devastation that unfolds when military or economic forces collide with ordinary human lives.
But his new book, ''Tompkins Square Park'' (powerHouse Books), returns to his early days in New York, when he was still adjusting to a new home and a new avocation -- photography -- after giving up a job at an advertising agency in Osaka.
Upon arriving in the city in 1986 he settled in the East Village, where he was alternately charmed and horrified by what he found. Dilapidated and abandoned buildings lined the streets. Entire blocks were filled with little more than rubble and bricks. Heroin was sold in candy stores, and gunshots sounded in the night. In the morning he sometimes spotted the bodies of people who had been killed or had died of overdoses. 
Even more surprising was the abundance of people living on the sidewalks. ''The homeless were spread out all over the neighborhood,'' Mr. Sakamaki recalled on a recent afternoon while sitting on a bench in Tompkins Square Park. ''It was like a third world city.''
Before long he gravitated toward Tompkins Square, the neighborhood's central gathering spot, where he found a lively mix of people. There were law students, punks, poets and older, lifelong residents who could remember the days of the New Deal.
Twenty years ago this week the neighborhood was also much like a war zone as protesters clashed with police officers seeking to enforce a curfew in the park. Mr. Sakamaki's book is timed to that anniversary and documents the street skirmishes, yet it is also a kind of manifesto.
''This book focuses on Tompkins Square Park as the symbol and stronghold of the anti-gentrification movement, the scene of one of the most important political and avant-garde movements in New York history,'' Mr. Sakamaki writes in an introduction.
Strolling through the neighborhood, he elaborated, saying that he favors safe streets and finds no romance in poverty. But, he said, change that is primarily driven by monetary profit ''destroys the lives of poor or weak people.''
As his black-and-white photographs make clear, Mr. Sakamaki found much that was life-affirming amid the conflict and penury. The energy and camaraderie of people who banded together in adversity appealed to him; so did the desire of East Villagers to create their own social order even as they received little help from mainstream society.
Most of the pictures in ''Tompkins Square Park'' were created before Mr. Sakamaki began traveling abroad to war zones. But it is fair to make the connection between his later work, for which he has received several awards, and a consciousness formed while documenting the depredations of the East Village in the 1980s, including addiction, AIDS and police violence.
The struggles he documented took place against a backdrop of rapid and sometimes rapacious gentrification that took hold in the 1980s and is the unifying theme for the 60 images in the volume. There are also essays on the park and its history by Bill Weinberg, a neighborhood journalist, and by Mr. Sakamaki, who described what the park and the neighborhood meant to him.
Political protests and musical events were also integral to the anti-gentrification movement. Photographs show performances in the Tompkins Square band shell by groups like the band False Prophets and Allen Ginsberg's reading of a poem demanding affordable housing.
Photographs of demonstrations and police responses range from arrests inside the park in 1989 to a clash in May 1991 when bottles flew through the air and police officers in visored helmets formed a line across Avenue B. He documents a major demonstration a week later in which a crowd marched on Avenue A at night to condemn the city's decision to shut the park and bulldoze part of it.
But the bulk of the book focuses on the lives of the homeless people who lived in the park or on the nearby streets.
In 1987 Mr. Sakamaki photographed homeless men and women eating a Christmas Day meal at a soup kitchen in a garden on East Ninth Street. In a 1989 image from Tompkins Square Park two men warm themselves next to a fire inside a trash can. A photograph from the same year shows homeless people and their supporters camping in the park with American flags. In a picture from October 1991, after the park's closing, a man sleeps in a bed on Avenue A in the pouring rain.
The streets and park paths depicted in the book still exist, of course, but many of the people who populated that landscape have died or left town. Mr. Sakamaki's photography has always been about people, from the street children of Rio de Janeiro to denizens of an empty lot on Avenue C.
So the absence of that population in today's East Village lends the book a haunted, ghostly air.
In the end Mr. Sakamaki's book is a valediction of sorts to lost people and a lost place that has been supplanted by a neighborhood that he finds rather sterile and uninspiring.
''We lost our culture,'' he said, ''and we lost control of our dreams.''
Leaving the park, Mr. Sakamaki, who still lives in the neighborhood, headed out to the surrounding streets, spots he had photographed decades before. Much has changed. Along East Eighth Street, where he once visited men and women in shacks, a six-story building houses a home for the aged. The onetime site of similar shanties on Avenue C is now occupied by a police building and parking lot.
But on Avenue C at East Ninth Street, La Plaza Cultural, a garden where Mr. Sakamaki had photographed the homeless on that Christmas Day 21 years ago, has survived.
''I'm happy that this garden is still here,'' he said, gazing through the fence at the pastoral spot, where city dwellers sat beneath a willow tree. ''But I'm also sad, because the people I knew are not inside anymore.''
Correction: August 8, 2008, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about Q. Sakamaki, a photographer whose new book, ''Tompkins Square Park,'' looks at the park as a symbol of the antigentrification movement, misstated, in some editions, the date when, he said, he was at the park and a policeman broke his camera. It was May 28, 1991 -- not Aug. 6, 1988, the date of the biggest confrontation there between protesters and the police. He has no images of that confrontation because he was not there, not because his camera was broken on that day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Relics of the late-1980s and early '90s: From top, protesters in Tompkins Square Park
riot police on Avenue B
then as now, the East Village was a place to see style on parade
a blighted Alphabet City.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY Q. SAKAMAKI)(E1)
From top, Stephan Ielpi of the punk band False Prophets in the Tompkins Square Park band shell at the ''Resist to Exist'' event on May 1, 1991
in the late-1980s abandoned buildings were common in this now-chic area
human devastation in the shadow of the camp Wigstock celebration
protesters demanding affordable housing on Avenue B in August 1989.
 The photographer Q. Sakamaki.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY Q. SAKAMAKI)(E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); RIOTS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); WRITERS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); HEROIN (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); POETRY (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (53%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BANGLADESH (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



115 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW 'ROCK THE BELLS'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Comforts of Hip-Hop Past, With Pals and Collaborators Along for the Ride

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

DATELINE: WANTAGH, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Several strains of hip-hop nostalgia coexisted neatly at the Nikon at Jones Beach Theater here on Sunday. There were love letters to the 1980s and '90s. There was a longing for the ostensibly unfulfilled promise of socially conscious rap. And there was a geographically driven hunger too, a pining for the time when the five boroughs (and sometimes Long Island) were the epicenter of hip-hop.
 But while it satisfied all these divergent impulses, Rock the Bells, which is becoming a staple of the summer tour circuit, still managed to offer an exclusionary vision of the genre. Here artists and fans celebrated their splinter group largely by ignoring much of what constitutes hip-hop today. 
 In this world discussions of the genre's death are taken seriously. The South, which has generated much of the relevant rap of the last few years, is a mere afterthought. So is the last decade: apart from Nas, whose latest album made its debut at the top of the Billboard album chart last month, no artist on the bill has been a regular on rap radio in recent memory.
 Instead this tour thrilled with old comforts. On the main stage there were solid, and sometimes exhilarating, reunion performances by two of the most innovative hip-hop acts of the early 1990s: the Pharcyde, from Los Angeles, whose ''Passin' Me By'' remains one of the great rap numbers about romantic frustration; and A Tribe Called Quest, from Queens, which helped carve a space for hip-hop's bohemian wing. Though the subtleties of Tribe's jazz- and soul-influenced beats were lost in this big space, the rappers Q-Tip and Phife Dawg compensated with force of will. This performance was, they said, their first in New York in a decade.
 Afrika Bambaataa played a set on the second stage that revisited hip-hop's early romance with electro. Immortal Technique, a young barker of an M.C. from Harlem, rapped about the abuses of the American government and organized religion, noting at one point, ''It's the economy, stupid!'' That phrase, a vestige of Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign, sounded appropriately anachronistic, if still apt.
 As if to prove the vitality of this anti-scene, most artists invited friends and collaborators to share the stage. During a spectacularly energetic performance Method Man and Redman, performing together as a music (and occasionally comedy) duo, brought out EPMD, which two decades ago helped put Long Island on the hip-hop map with a combination of funk-based production and casual bragging; and also DJ Kool, the Washington rapper-producer best known for the sports-arena anthem ''Let Me Clear My Throat.''
 The practiced showmen of De La Soul were joined by Dres, from Black Sheep, for a rousing version of ''The Choice Is Yours.'' And Mos Def surprised the crowd with an appearance from his old partner in Black Star, Talib Kweli, whose ''Get By'' received a more enthusiastic response than anything that preceded it. (Mos Def also brought out Pharoahe Monch, making for a late-'90s indie-rap reunion.)
 Nas, though, had the ultimate trump card: Jay-Z, who emerged to perform their duet ''Black Republican.'' But while Jay-Z provided more wattage than the day's other performers, Nas wasn't outshined; he has finally matured into the star his fans have long been asking him to become.
 Backed by a six-piece band, he was captivating: panting and heaving on ''One Mic,'' indignant on ''Hero'' and sublime on a series of pieces from his 1994 debut album, ''Illmatic.'' (One of those, ''One Love,'' features what may be the most prominent mention of Jones Beach in popular song: ''Guess who got shot in the dome piece?/Jerome's niece, on her way home from Jones Beach.'') 
 After Jay-Z retreated offstage, Nas performed one of his most bruising numbers, ''Made You Look,'' echoing a moment earlier in the day on the second stage, when the Cool Kids, vintage hip-hop fetishists of the highest order, performed a strong set. The chorus of their ''88'' (as in the year), which name-checked several dances of the era, was a line lifted directly from Nas's ''Made You Look.''
 After they finished that, Mikey Rocks, the group's primary rapper, noted the searing sun but said it wasn't bothering him: ''I am from Africa.''
 ''No, you are not,'' his partner, Chuck Inglish, replied, laughing. ''We are from Chicago, Illinois.''
 Mr. Rocks then called attention to his T-shirt, half of which was covered in a colorful, African-inspired print that recalled hip-hop's late '80s flirtations with Afrocentrism. ''Whatever you're wearing,'' he said, ''That's what you are for the day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nas performed ''One Mic'' and ''Hero,'' among others.
 Mos Def, left, and Q-Tip of the innovative hip-hop group A Tribe Called Quest from Queens. Tribe, which also performed, said it was its first performance in New York in a decade.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RADIO FORMATS (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



116 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Takes Steam Out of Rise In Spending

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Consumers spent more in June, but only because the things they bought cost more.
 Driven primarily by energy and food prices, inflation grew 0.8 percent over May, the biggest monthly increase since September 2005, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported on Monday. Spending, by comparison, grew just 0.6 percent in June.
 ''Inflation is intensifying, and that is the main source of weakness in consumer spending,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays. 
 High food and energy prices continue to drive overall prices. Without food and energy, core inflation grew at a more modest 0.3 percent over May. The prices of nondurable goods -- the most current measure of food and energy prices kept by the bureau, adding in items like clothing -- recorded the biggest year-over-year increase since July 1981. 
 Stock prices fell in response to the news, but recovered some ground before closing lower. 
 Oil fell $3.69, to $121.41 a barrel, partly on anticipation that struggling consumers would not be buying as much, but also on reports that a developing storm in the Gulf of Mexico would miss offshore oil operations. The Dow Jones industrial average and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the trading day down slightly. 
 Federal Reserve policy makers will discuss pricing pressures along with the weakness in the economy when they meet Tuesday. They will note that consumer spending managed to outpace inflation in May, largely because of rebate checks from the federal government, before the June report. The government sent out $48.1 billion in tax rebates in May, followed by $27.9 billion in June. 
 ''This is a kind of 'Honey, inflation ate my rebate check' story,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.
 Monday's announcement followed a tepid report last week on economic growth. The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the second quarter. The government also revised the gross domestic product for the fourth quarter of 2007 to show a decline. 
 Other recent indicators, including job losses, have presented a similarly grim picture. Though the numbers in the spending report on Monday were not as dire as Wall Street had forecast, they indicate challenges ahead.
 ''That real consumer spending is down two-tenths in June is not a good thing in and of itself, but it also is a bad thing for what it means for third-quarter consumption,'' said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''To get positive consumption growth in the third quarter is going to be very challenging, especially with things like auto sales down as much as they are.'' 
 Democrats in Congress have proposed a second round of stimulus payments, a move the administration has resisted. Now that Congress is in recess, another round of tax rebates seems unlikely to materialize until at least after the election. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee will discuss how to address inflation concerns and the economic downturn at its regularly scheduled meeting Tuesday. The Fed policy makers are widely expected to leave interest rates unchanged because credit tightening could further crush employment, the housing market and other areas of the ailing economy.
 ''The Fed is being pulled in a number of different directions,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight. ''If everything else in the economy were going fine, they'd be absolutely raising interest rates. But it's not.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers on Michigan Avenue in Chicago. The government said that spending grew 0.6 percent in June over May, but inflation grew 0.8 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSSEL A. DANIELS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C8) CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. Chart details Personal Income and Spending.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); SALES REBATES (59%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (61%); JPM (LSE) (61%); 8634 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



117 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: When Favre Showed Up, News Didn't

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For the 2 hours 37 minutes of its Brett Favre ''SportsCenter'' special, ESPN promised little, except a ''developing story'' that stayed in vitro.
 There were no live shots of his arrival Monday at the Green Bay Packers' training camp, but plenty of the same clip of his arrival by jet Sunday night with his wife (and their waves to those who had come to see them).
 Seemed like a nice private jet, but I didn't want to see it touch down 43 times. 
 The ring-a-ding-dingy Developing Story graphic appeared regularly to raise the unmet expectations. 
 And ESPN fed us a diet of repetitive taped shots of Favre; Aaron Rodgers, who thought he had finally emerged from backup status; Coach Mike McCarthy; General Manager Ted Thompson; and the team president, Mark Murphy. That nobody was live for ESPN made sense; Favre's physical was not being conducted on the 50-yard line, and no practices were scheduled.
 Nearly the only people talking live from Green Bay were ESPN's own reporters, Ed Werder and Wendi Nix, who answered the same few questions, over and over during multiple segments, from the anchors Robert Flores and Chris McKendry. Jason Wilde, a Packers newspaper beat reporter, was also interviewed live, but he largely repeated what Werder and Nix had said.
 As Vince Lombardi, the saint of Green Bay, said in a different context, ''What the hell's going on out here?''
 Vince Doria, ESPN's senior vice president and director of news, defended the lengthy treatment but acknowledged that not much happened on the network's constant watch.
 ''We always expect to deliver more and believe we should be in place to make that delivery possible,'' he said by telephone. ''When news is developing -- or not developing as quickly as we'd like -- we want to be in place to reflect what's happening.'' 
 He added: ''We'd like to deliver and meet expectations as often as we can, but when you're dealing with news, it's not always met.''
 Within a half-hour of the special's start at 12:30 p.m. Eastern time, ESPN knew that little was developing. 
 So it repeated segments, graphics and interviews. It returned to Werder and Nix, who did their stand-ups against the backdrop of a virtually empty Lambeau Field. It went back and forth to Bristol, Conn., for some occasionally lively and insightful debate between Mike Golic and Marcellus Wiley, moderated by Flores or Trey Wingo.
 Baseball highlights subsequently grew prominent. So did news about Cincinnati Bengals receiver Chad Johnson.
 Although the special was not nourishing, Doria sees such efforts pragmatically. He would rather be live, without breaking news, than in a ''SportsCenter'' replay. 
 Still, more balance was needed; after an unedifying half-hour, it was time to return to the studio until news broke. 
 The inflation of stories beyond expectations is what ESPN's ombudsman, Le Anne Schreiber, addressed in June. She wrote on ESPN.com that some ''SportsCenter'' specials exemplified an ''unwieldy, artificially bloated, overused mechanism for handling major and not-so-major breaking news.'' 
 As news eluded the media's sight on Monday, one of the better points was made by Wiley and Golic about Rodgers's task in dealing with Favre's corporeal presence. ''The legend is staring at him from the sidelines,'' Golic said. Wiley said that he followed Bruce Smith at defensive end in Buffalo, but that he felt less pressure because Smith had already moved to the Redskins.
 Steve Young, the ESPN studio analyst who replaced Joe Montana as the San Francisco 49ers' starting quarterback, said his experience was different than Rodgers's. Young had had success as Montana's backup, but Montana was hurt when he took over.
 ''I'd tell Aaron that making an N.F.L. career for yourself is astronomically difficult and this adds to the degree of difficulty,'' he said in an interview Monday. ''The challenge now is not about replacing Brett Favre. It's about being a good quarterback.''
 The fate of televised football is more assured in Favre's hands (and ESPN would no doubt prefer that he start in the ''Monday Night'' opener against Minnesota). Over the past 10 years, the eight Packers playoff games with Favre shown by Fox had higher ratings than the games had in the comparable time slots in the years before. 
 And if history is a guide, the Milwaukee market rating may fall when Favre truly retires -- unless Rodgers is immediate greatness-in-waiting. The Denver market rating fell 6 percent for CBS in the Broncos' first season without John Elway.
 A league without Favre will mean fewer interviews with Terry Bradshaw of Fox Sports. Bradshaw said that did not bother him, despite his palpable affection for Favre's playing style and personality. 
 ''I am not real close to Brett,'' he said Monday from his ranch in Oklahoma, sounding stung that Favre has not returned telephone messages from him. ''I want to make that clear. I wasn't going to miss him if he didn't play.''
 Bradshaw said he was unimpressed by what appeared to be Favre's demand to be dealt to Green Bay's division rivals, the Vikings or the Bears.
 ''I thought he wanted to play,'' he said. ''If you want to play, what difference is it what team you play for? I want to play, I want to play, he's saying, but, no, he's saying, I'm not going to play there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dawn Wilde, a Packers fan, waited for Brett Favre's arrival at Lambeau Field on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE ROEMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BASEBALL (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



118 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Continue to Fall

BYLINE: By ABHA BHATTARAI

 BODY:
Oil prices fell below $120 a barrel on Monday for the first time since May after it became clear that Tropical Storm Edouard, which is heading toward the Texas coast, is an unlikely threat to offshore oil operations in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Crude oil for September delivery closed down $3.69 a barrel, or 2.9 percent, at $121.41 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Crude has now fallen in six of the last nine sessions and is down sharply from its trading record of $147.27 on July 11. Oil prices have fallen nearly 18 percent from their peak close of $145.29 a barrel on July 3.
 ''This is mostly just part of the larger trend of falling oil prices that has been happening over the past two or three weeks,'' said Daniel Ahn, an energy economist at Lehman Brothers. ''At the end of the day, this is a response to the market's realization that it had been overshooting.''
 Mr. Ahn added that demand for oil is down 900,000 barrels a day in the United States compared with last year.
 Analysts said oil prices were also hit by fears of a slowing economy, which resurfaced on Monday after the Commerce Department reported that consumer spending slowed in June as shoppers continued to be hit by high gasoline and food prices.
 The price for a gallon of regular gas fell Monday to $3.881 from $3.887 the day before. Gas prices have fallen nearly 6 percent from a record high of more than $4 a gallon on July 17.
 The fall in prices came despite a warning from Iran's Revolutionary Guards on Monday that it could easily close a Persian Gulf waterway that is critical to oil shipments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); WEATHER (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); TRENDS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



119 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: In Accord, Ricin Owner Enters Plea Of Guilty

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
A man who set off a panic in February after the deadly toxin ricin was found in his motel room near the Las Vegas Strip pleaded guilty Monday to possessing the outlawed substance. 
 The man, Roger Von Bergendorff, 57, accepted a deal with federal prosecutors in which he pleaded guilty to possessing a biological toxin and to a charge of possession of unregistered handgun silencers. In exchange, a charge of possession of unregistered guns was dropped and prosecutors recommended a 57-month sentence.
 Mr. Bergendorff is to be sentenced on Nov. 3 by Judge Robert C. Jones of Federal District Court, who under federal sentencing guidelines could put him in prison for up to 20 years.
 The case began on Feb. 26 when ricin was discovered in Mr. Bergendorff's room by a cousin from Utah who had come to Las Vegas to remove Mr. Bergendorff's belongings from the Extended Stay America motel. At the time, Mr. Bergendorff was comatose in a local hospital after having been admitted on Feb. 14 with respiratory distress. 
 An assistant United States attorney, Gregory Damm, told the court in May that the four grams of ricin seized from Mr. Bergendorff's motel room were capable of killing more than 500 people.
 Investigators say they believe Mr. Bergendorff sickened himself with the ricin, which he had manufactured. He was charged in May after he recovered from his illness and was about to be released from the hospital.
 Mr. Bergendorff made no comments beyond answering Judge Jones's questions at the hearing Monday, and no one offered any further explanation as to why he had the ricin or what he intended to do with it.
 Mr. Damm, who negotiated the plea arrangement, said only, ''There is no evidence to indicate any intent to target any individual or individuals with the substance.''
 Federal investigators said previously that they had ruled out domestic terrorism as a motive.
 The criminal complaint against Mr. Bergendorff described him as having experimented for years with making ricin and having indicated that he had thoughts of harming people who had upset him.
 Mr. Bergendorff was an unemployed computer graphic artist whose work has appeared on the covers of science fiction novels.
 Mr. Bergendorff's cousin, Thomas Tholen of Riverton, Utah, is awaiting trial in federal court in Salt Lake City. He pleaded not guilty to one felony count of failing to report Mr. Bergendorff's ricin production.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (92%); SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FELONIES (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (69%); TERRORISM (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (60%); FIREARMS (56%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (50%)

COMPANY: EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (75%) NEVADA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



120 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: The President and Product Safety

 BODY:
American consumers, who have suffered years of neglect from government agencies created for their protection, could soon be in for some genuine help. Congress last week overwhelmingly passed the first important reform in 30 years of the creaky Consumer Product Safety Commission. Aides to President Bush have said that he plans to sign the bill into law. 
 That would be good news, and even better news if he signs it quickly. Consumers have a right to be protected from such hazardous goods, and businesses stand to gain as well. Consumer confidence in product safety desperately needs some help, especially as the nation moves toward what could be a lean holiday season. 
 Anyone who follows the news knows why this law is needed. Last year alone, nearly 30 million potentially hazardous toys were pulled from the nation's shelves. Many items were covered in lead paint. Others had tiny magnets that could injure a child's delicate stomach.
 The safety bill, which passed the Senate 89 to 3 and the House 424 to 1, would essentially ban lead in products for children under 12. It would also require testing of children's products before they could be put up for sale.
 Six types of phthalates suspected of damaging human reproductive systems would be banned, either permanently or until further study is done. It would also direct the commission to establish new safety standards for all-terrain vehicles that have caused hundreds of deaths and thousands of injuries, especially to children.
 The law would also strengthen the commission, which has long been starved for funds, by authorizing a much-needed budget increase, including $25 million for a public database. The database would soon let consumers quickly list problems with products, and learn about other consumers' complaints before they made a purchase. There are also protections for whistle-blowers and increased penalties for violating the law.
 It is gratifying that even a White House that has spent years fighting worthy regulation now apparently recognizes that this bill is necessary to make today's market safer for consumers and their children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT SAFETY (93%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); PLASTICIZERS (69%); LEAD PAINT (68%); LEAD (68%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



121 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS ON SCIENCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Inside Story of the Telescope That Nearly Wasn't Built

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Behind every pretty picture of the universe there is a lot of dirty work that had to be done to capture it.
 When I was covering the space program in the 1980s, at some point during every space mission a NASA public affairs officer would corral a few science reporters and ask what to do when the space telescope was finally launched.
 The space agency wanted to make sure its long-awaited and astronomically expensive telescope -- soon to be launched into orbit above the turbulent fog of the atmosphere -- made an appropriately cosmic splash. The advice from those of us in the press peanut gallery was always the same and simple: pictures -- cosmic postcards like the live pictures of other planets being transmitted from the Viking and Voyager spacecraft -- early and often. Little did I know how mortified the astronomers were by these suggestions. Having spent a decade or more of their lives building the telescopes and their instruments, they were terrified that somebody, some outsider, would take a ruler to one of those pictures and scoop them on some discovery -- something that had actually happened to one of the Voyager scientists. 
 ''If you look at those objects before I do, I'll kill you,'' John N. Bahcall, an astrophysicist at the Institute for Advanced Study, once told Eric J. Chaisson, now at Tufts University, who was then in charge of public outreach and wanted to take some pretty pictures.
 That tale was news to me. It is recounted in ''The Universe in Mirror: The Saga of the Hubble Space Telescope and the Visionaries Who Built It'' (Princeton University Press), a breezy behind-the-scenes account by Robert Zimmerman, a freelance writer and space historian.
 We hear all the time about the great science Hubble is doing, orbiting high above the murky, turbulent atmosphere, and the astronomers using it to stalk dark energy or planets around other stars. This fall astronauts from the space shuttle Atlantis will be in the spotlight as they perform one last maintenance call on the telescope. 
 But there is a group less well known: people like C.R. O'Dell, known as Bob, who gave up his research career to manage the space telescope project at the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala.; Nancy G. Roman, who championed space astronomy to the agency and her colleagues; Lyman S. Spitzer Jr., the Princeton astronomer who thought up the telescope way back in 1946 and then was frozen out of using it; Frank J. Cepollina, the Goddard Space Flight Center engineer who designed Hubble's servicing missions.
 These people spent years trudging the corridors of Congress and NASA, fighting bureaucratic battles, defending budgets, hassling with contractors, making hard decisions that alienated their friends, devising fantastical fixes for fantastical problems, skirting the edge of the law and generally growing old without glory. Isaac Newton once said that if he saw farther than most people, it was because he stood on the shoulders of giants. If Hubble sees farther, it is because of these men and women, who come to life, warts and all, in Mr. Zimmerman's book, and of the process, messy and uncomfortable as it may be, by which dreams are turned into legacies in a democratic society.
 It should be noted that Mr. Zimmerman himself is standing on the shoulders of giants, notably ''The Space Telescope: A Study of NASA, Science, Technology, and Politics,'' by the historian Robert W. Smith (Cambridge University Press, 1993). Drawing on Dr. Smith's files and other archives, as well as personal interviews, Mr. Zimmerman has brought the story up to the present, and it's a great story.
 The Hubble has been called the most productive telescope in history and has hypnotized us all with its cosmic postcards, but it's a wonder it was ever built. Many astronomers feared that its enormous cost would drain resources from ground-based astronomy and may not work anyway. NASA was preoccupied with building the space shuttle and was on a short financial leash in the inflation-ridden post-Apollo era.
 Astronomers did not trust the scientific expertise at Goddard, which got the job of developing instruments for the telescope, and they were wary of the bureaucracy at the Marshall center, better known for developing rocket engines than science. But Marshall needed work and so got the job of managing the telescope development, its scientific credentials burnished when Dr. O'Dell agreed to leave his dream job at the University of Chicago to move to Huntsville and run the project.
 Congress deleted the telescope from NASA's budget in 1974, almost killing it. The NASA administrator Noel W. Hinners, in a calculated move, eliminated the telescope from its 1976 budget, but the news was leaked (illegally) to astronomers ahead of time and they were able to have an intense lobbying campaign in place. The telescope moved ahead, shrunken to two-thirds its original size and hobbled by an arbitrary decree by Dr. Hinners' predecessor, James C. Fletcher, in 1972 that it not cost more than $300 million.
 Dr. Spitzer suffered a double loss. Hoping to build the camera for the telescope, he bet on the wrong technology and lost out to a pair of California Institute of Technology gadgeteers, James A. Westphal and James Gunn, who is now at Princeton. Then Princeton lost to Johns Hopkins in its bid to host the telescope operations center. 
 All this, of course, was just prelude to the sickening discovery, after its launching in 1990, that the telescope's mirror was misshapen, with a spherical aberration -- an amateur's mistake that Mr. Zimmerman attributes to a make-no-waves look-the-other-way attitude formed by the need to stay under Mr. Fletcher's original budget ceiling. His description of how the mirror was bungled and the agonizing days when astronomers struggled to understand what was wrong and how to fix it takes up a quarter of the book and is worth the price of admission by itself.
 Along the way there are nice human touches. After Dr. O'Dell stepped down as project scientist, his colleagues chipped in telescope observing time to give him a full share of Hubble time. He turned around and gave half of it to Dr. Spitzer, allowing the father of the telescope to harvest some of its fruits.
 Hubble was restored to its full glorious potential by the original astronaut servicing crew in 1993, and was hitting its stride when NASA was hammered by the loss of the Columbia space shuttle in 2003. The agency's administrator, Sean O'Keefe, an admitted bean counter confronted with death and issues of serious rocket science, canceled the final servicing mission on the grounds that it was too risky. That ignited a national outcry and a whole new round of lobbying reminiscent of the old days in the '70s.
 Eventually Michael Griffin, Mr. O'Keefe's successor, reversed that call. The saga continues this fall. Like I said, it's a great story.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the development of the Hubble Space Telescope misstated the title of Noel W. Hinners, a NASA official who eliminated the telescope from the agency's 1976 budget. He was the associate administrator for space science, not the NASA administrator. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEGACY: Lyman S. Spitzer Jr., a Princeton astronomer, is known as the father of the Hubble telescope, right. Top, an image of debris from a star explosion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, DON MORTON
 NASA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); SPACE SHUTTLE (72%); WRITERS (72%); HISTORY (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Universe in Mirror: The Saga of the Hubble Space Telescope and the Visionaries Who Built It, The (Book)>; Universe in Mirror: The Saga of the Hubble Space Telescope and the Visionaries Who Built It, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



122 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2089 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
FULBRIGHT GRANT RECIPIENTS
Turned Away From U.S., Again
For the second time in two months, the road has been blocked for three Palestinian recipients of a Fulbright grant to study in the United States. The three were part of a group whose grants were originally withdrawn because the State Department feared it would be unable to get them out of Gaza after Israel closed off the coastal strip to contain Hamas. Page A10
TOLL FOR K2 CLIMBERS REACHES 11
The death toll for the climbers on K2, the mountain on the border of China and Pakistan, rose to 11 on Monday. Two were rescued and a third survived despite punishing cold near the top of K2, the second highest mountain in the world and regarded by many as harder to climb than Everest. Three are in stable condition and four are still coming down, Pakistani officials said. On Friday, a serac of ice broke away and fell, stranding as many as a dozen climbers and taking with it ropes left behind for their descent. Page A7 
THREATS FROM IRAN AFTER DEADLINE
Iran said it could close a Persian Gulf waterway with ease, thereby halting oil shipments, and claimed possession of a new naval weapon that could sink ships 200 miles away. The reason for the threat was unclear, but it came after the expiration of the deadline for Iran to respond to incentives to cease nuclear enrichment. The United States has warships in the region, and has said more sanctions are likely unless Iran responds. Page A10
SMOOTHING ROUGH EDGES IN ASIA
This summer, for the first time since World War II, Japan's navy made a call at a Chinese port, this time to deliver tourists, not troops. Japan, as well as Taiwan, are viewed as most likely to face a threat from neighboring China, but have recently been drawn closer into its orbit. The newfound closeness comes after two years of often covert diplomacy on the part of President Hu Jintao of China to defuse any tensions leading up to his country's playing host to the Olympic Games. Page A6
SARKOZY LEANS ON PRESS IN SCANDAL
There's nothing better to ease the tensions of the dog days of summer than a nice little scandal. It seems the latest diversion involves the son of President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, the son's fiancee, a well-loved and nasty satirical magazine, and a dash of anti-Semitism thrown in as seasoning. In the fallout, a famous left-wing cartoonist has been fired for making anti-Semitic comments in connection with Mr. Sarkozy's son and a nerve has been touched: Mr. Sarkozy's efforts to intimidate the French press. Page A11
National
LOOKING INTO EYE OF THE STORM,
And Not Blinking
Coastal cities in Texas are preparing themselves for a tropical storm that gained strength as it churned through the Gulf of Mexico toward Galveston. But Texans are no strangers to extreme weather, and so there was little panic. ''It don't faze me, man,'' said one accountant, lounging outside his home. ''I've been through it. Some people leave, some don't. I ain't leaving. If it ain't a Category Four or Five, I'm staying here.'' PAGE a16
LAWYER SAYS DETAINEE AIDED U.S.
At the war crimes trial of Salim Hamdan, Osama bin Laden's driver, Mr. Hamdan's military lawyer said in his closing arguments that secret evidence showed that Mr. Hamdan offered ''critical details'' to American forces ''when it mattered most'' in the early days of the war in Afghanistan. In testimony during public sessions of the two-week-old trial, it was clear that Mr. Hamdan had provided details about Mr. bin Laden's possible whereabouts, even taking interrogators to some of Mr. bin Laden's Afghan homes and training camps. PAGE A1
A KILLING BARES A TOWN'S TENSIONS
Four teenagers in Shenandoah, Pa., have been charged in the killing of Luis Ramirez, though exactly what happened during the attack that led to his death is still hotly debated in the town. Some say it was just a street fight that went too far, and others claim the teenagers singled out a Mexican immigrant for a beating and made anti-Mexican remarks. PAGE A12
OBAMA ALTERS ENERGY STANCE
In a speech in Lansing, Mich., Senator Barack Obama altered his position to call for tapping the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve to lower gasoline prices. He also sought to portray his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, as ''in the pocket'' of oil giants that are profiting from gasoline priced at more than $4 a gallon. And in his speech, Mr. Obama called for a windfall profits tax on oil companies to finance rebates for Americans. PAGE A14
National
LOOKING INTO EYE OF THE STORM,
And Not Blinking
Coastal cities in Texas are preparing themselves for a tropical storm that gained strength as it churned through the Gulf of Mexico toward Galveston. But Texans are no strangers to extreme weather, and so there was little panic. ''It don't faze me, man,'' said one accountant, lounging outside his home. ''I've been through it. Some people leave, some don't. I ain't leaving. If it ain't a Category Four or Five, I'm staying here.'' PAGE a16
LAWYER SAYS DETAINEE AIDED U.S.
At the war crimes trial of Salim Hamdan, Osama bin Laden's driver, Mr. Hamdan's military lawyer said in his closing arguments that secret evidence showed that Mr. Hamdan offered ''critical details'' to American forces ''when it mattered most'' in the early days of the war in Afghanistan. In testimony during public sessions of the two-week-old trial, it was clear that Mr. Hamdan had provided details about Mr. bin Laden's possible whereabouts, even taking interrogators to some of Mr. bin Laden's Afghan homes and training camps. PAGE A1
A KILLING BARES A TOWN'S TENSIONS
Four teenagers in Shenandoah, Pa., have been charged in the killing of Luis Ramirez, though exactly what happened during the attack that led to his death is still hotly debated in the town. Some say it was just a street fight that went too far, and others claim the teenagers singled out a Mexican immigrant for a beating and made anti-Mexican remarks. PAGE A12
OBAMA ALTERS ENERGY STANCE
In a speech in Lansing, Mich., Senator Barack Obama altered his position to call for tapping the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve to lower gasoline prices. He also sought to portray his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, as ''in the pocket'' of oil giants that are profiting from gasoline priced at more than $4 a gallon. And in his speech, Mr. Obama called for a windfall profits tax on oil companies to finance rebates for Americans. PAGE A14
New York Report
CLERGY MEMBER REMOVED AFTER COMPLAINTS OF SEXUAL ABUSE
Msgr. Wallace A. Harris, the leader of the congregation at St. Charles Borromeo in Harlem, was removed Monsignor Harris from his parish and priestly duties while it looked into complaints by two people that he had sexually abused them about 20 years ago. People familiar with the district attorney's investigation said the complaints involved two boys at a school where Harris previously taught. PAGE B1
LAWSUIT SEEKS POLICE RACE DATA
When the New York Police Department recently released 11 years of statistics on every bullet fired by its officers, it included the reason for each shooting, how many shots were fired and how many bullets hit their targets -- but it did not include the races of the people shot. The New York Civil Liberties Union is suing to gain access to the racial statistics. PAGE B1
Business
CHINA'S SAGGING ECONOMY
Could Hurt Growth Elsewhere
The economic in slowdown in China was supposed to begin after the Olympics, but it has already started. The downturn doesn't have much to do with the Olympics, but its effects are being felt worldwide. China's woes may reduce inflationary pressures around the world, but they threaten to slow further the already tenuous global economic growth. PAGE C1
STUMPING FOR NATURAL GAS
Gas prices keep climbing, and so consumers are looking to vehicles that run on other fuels, like natural gas. One of natural gas's biggest proponents is Boone Pickens, the billionaire Texas oilman and onetime corporate raider, who has argued that natural gas is a ''patriotic'' fossil fuel. And maybe not coincidentally, his push aligns with his own business interests. PAGE C1
A HAVEN FOR WOMEN
The women's-only floor in hotels went out of favor about 25 years ago, thought to be sexist. Hotel chains are revisiting the practice, and have tweaked the idea by not excluding men from certain floors and trying to make the hotels more hospitable to women. PAGE C6
CHRONIC DISEASE, LITTLE TREATMENT
A new study by the medical journal Annals of Internal Medicine found that millions of Americans with chronic diseases like diabetes or high blood pressure are not getting adequate treatment because they are among the nation's growing ranks of uninsured. The report estimated that about 11 million of the 36 million people without insurance in 2004 had received a chronic-condition diagnosis. PAGE C4
ARTS
A TIE-DYED TIME WARP
To the Age of Aquarius
Perhaps more than any musical, ''Hair,'' the score of which became the soundtrack of a generation 41 years ago, is embedded in time. So the question surrounding the Public Theater's revival of the rock musical is whether it will be able to capture the immediacy of the original. ''It seems shockingly relevant,'' said Felice Friedman, who saw the original production when she was 19. ''It was fresh and thrilling and young and energetic.'' PAGE E1
THE COMFORTS OF HIP-HOP PAST
Rock the Bells managed at the Nikon at Jones Beach Theater to offer an exclusionary vision of the hip-hop genre. Old comforts -- A Tribe Called Quest, Method Man and Redman, above; the Pharcyde, Afrika Bambaataa, Nas -- and their fans celebrated by ignoring much of what constitutes hip-hop today. A review by Jon Caramanica. PAGE E5
LESSING LOOKS BACK
Doris Lessing once declared that ''fiction makes a better job of the truth'' than reminiscence. And while that might well be true of her celebrated and semi-autobiographical Martha Quest novels, Michiko Kakutani writes, it's an observation that doesn't apply at all to her latest book, ''Alfred & Emily,'' an intriguing work that is half-fiction, half-memoir. PAGE E1
WHERE CHAMBER MEETS MARIACHI
A chamber music festival can be only as good as its performance space. The Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival is fortunate to have the St. Francis Auditorium, which proved an acoustically vibrant hall during an appealing Schumann program and a fascinating contemporary program featuring Anssi Karttunen, Anthony Tommasini writes. Leaving the auditorium, the audience came upon a mariachi band in the plaza. From chamber to mariachi: a typical day in Santa Fe. PAGE E1
Obituaries
SKIP CARAY, 68
He was the middleman in a three-generation line of baseball broadcasters, and his nasal tone and sometimes playful, sometimes sardonic commentary on radio and television made him familiar to fans as the voice of the Atlanta Braves. ''He said what he thought,'' an Atlanta journalist said. ''And if he happened to ruffle the tender sensibilities of listeners or management, well tough.'' PAGE B8
PETER W. RODMAN, 64
He began his career as an aide to Henry Kissinger, and went on to be an important foreign policy adviser for every Republican president from Richard M. Nixon to George W. Bush -- including as an assistant secretary of defense for nearly six years in the current administration. PAGE B8
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
There is a sense that because of his background and temperament, Barack Obama lives apart. He puts one foot in the institutions he rises through on his journey, but he is never fully engaged. As a result, voters have trouble placing him in his context, understanding the roots and values in which he is ineluctably embedded. Page A19
BOB HERBERT
We're not paying nearly enough attention to the fastest, easiest and cleanest step toward a sane energy environment. Page A19
NOT QUITE READY TO GO
In an Op-Ed article, three foreign-policy experts who have just returned from a fact-finding trip to Iraq -- Stephen Biddle, Michael E. O'Hanlon and Kenneth M. Pollack -- argue that while we may be able to bring most American troops home within two or three years, we should not set a hard-and-fast timetable. Page A19
Editorial
GUNS AND POPPIES
In the morass that is Afghanistan, not just the Taliban is flourishing. So too is opium production. The United States and the rest of the international community must work harder and more cooperatively to rescue this narco-state. Page A18
THE PRESIDENT AND PRODUCT SAFETY
American consumers, who have suffered years of neglect from government agencies created for their protection, could soon be in for some genuine help. Page A18

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mano a Mano in Pakistan: Pakistani wrestlers train in Kushti, a traditional form of Indo-Pakistani wrestling, at the Champion Khalu Behalwan wrestling club in the Old City of Lahore, Pakistan. Kushti is several thousand years old and a national sport in Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CLIMBING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HAMAS (78%); WEATHER (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); WORLD WAR II (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); OLYMPICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (68%); HU JINTAO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT EVEREST (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HIMALAYAS (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (77%); GULF STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010



123 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: In China, Signs of Softening

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Many Chinese have been expecting a post-Olympics economic slowdown, but it has already started and the Games have not even begun.
 Chinese factories reported a plunge in new orders last month. Exports are barely growing. The real estate market is weakening, with apartment prices sinking in southeastern China, the region hardest hit by economic troubles.
 The trends, which actually have little to do with the Olympics (the Games themselves, which open Friday, are small compared with the size of the economy), are being felt worldwide. 
 China's slowing growth is one reason that gasoline prices have fallen in the United States, for example. Similarly, world prices for metals like copper, tin, zinc and aluminum have tumbled in the last several weeks, as voracious Chinese factories have closed, or cut back their consumption. 
 But while China's difficulties may reduce inflationary pressures around the world, they threaten to slow further the already tenuous global economic growth.
 ''China has slowed down a lot already, but it's going to slow down more,'' said Hong Liang, the senior China economist at Goldman Sachs.
 Economists expect growth to slip from its recent pace of 11 percent or more annually to as low as 9 or 9.5 percent over the coming year. 
 Most nations would envy that rate. But 9 percent growth will make it much harder to supply jobs to the millions of Chinese moving to cities from rural areas in search of work. And any slower growth could prove a shock to workers who have been receiving double-digit pay increases each year, as companies struggle to find enough labor to keep factories open.
 How Chinese authorities manage a slower economy, and its effect on China's 1.3 billion people, will be a test for the regime. It seems to be responding quickly. 
 A Politburo meeting on July 25 replaced the previous national economic goals, preventing overheating of the economy and controlling inflation, with new targets. As enunciated by President Hu Jintao in recent appearances, the objectives now are to seek fast and sustained economic growth while still keeping inflation under control. 
 ''We must maintain steady, relatively fast development and control excessive price rises as the priority tasks of macro adjustment,'' he said on Friday at a rare news conference.
 Having put a series of brakes on the economy over the last five years to keep inflation under control, Chinese policy makers are now removing some to prevent growth from slowing too much.
 For example, after letting China's currency rise sharply against the dollar in the first half of this year, China's central bank has actually pushed it down against the dollar in each of the last four trading days, including a decline of 0.13 percent on Monday. This is helping to preserve the competitiveness of Chinese exporters in foreign markets, although at the risk of angering the United States and other trading partners.
 In the last several days, Chinese authorities have also raised export tax refunds for garment manufacturers -- an industry previously slighted by regulators, who remain more interested in promoting higher-tech industries. 
 Policy makers have also reportedly moved to ease lending limits on banks.
 Weak demand from the United States over the last year, and now from Europe as well, is part of China's emerging problem. On Sunday evening, the port here was less full of containers than usual, part of a broader slowing of export growth.
 This weakening of exports has been particularly true of light manufactured goods from southeastern China, one of the country's two main export areas, along with the Yangtze River delta region around Shanghai.
 At Union Bags, a luggage maker in Dongguan, about 40 miles up the Pearl River from Hong Kong, sales to the United States have dropped 20 percent in the last year. 
 ''We have had to cut back on our own orders to our local suppliers of zippers, nylon and polyester,'' said Jim Jiang, the company's sales manager.
 Demand is beginning to weaken for big-ticket purchases. J. D. Power and Associates just cut its forecast for car sales in China this year to 5.95 million -- still up from 5.42 million last year, but much less of an increase than the company's previous forecast of 6.2 million.
 More serious for the broader Chinese economy are signs that the real estate market is weakening after years of climbing prices that had prompted warnings of a possible bubble. Here again, the biggest trouble seems to be in southern China.
 Min Hwa, a real estate broker in Shenzhen, a city of at least 12 million people near Hong Kong, said that residential real estate prices dropped by 10 percent over the last year in desirable neighborhoods near the city center and nosedived by up to 40 percent in outlying neighborhoods.
 ''We have seen a lot fewer prospective buyers in recent months,'' he said.
 Northern China tends to produce a higher proportion of industrial goods and fewer consumer goods than southern China, and seems to be faring better. Exports are still rising, for example, from the port of Tianjin, near Beijing.
 But there, a few provinces like Shandong and Shanxi are suffering from power shortages. The shortages are forcing factories to limit their operating hours because not enough coal is being mined to fuel some of the many new power plants that opened in the last two years.
 Andy Rothman, a China economist at CLSA, a Hong Kong brokerage, said that nearly half of China's provinces had scattered power shortages this summer. But the slowing of the economy will prevent the problem from becoming widespread before cooler weather brings an end to air-conditioning season, he said.
 The timing of the slowdown at the beginning of the Olympics appears to be largely coincidental.
 Beijing accounts for slightly more than 1 percent of China's people and less than 5 percent of its economic output. So even heavy spending in the Beijing area on Olympic sites is unlikely to have had much of an effect in lifting growth in the last months or in depressing growth now that the construction has ended.
 But fears of a post-Olympic slowdown have become part of popular culture in China, and a subject of great interest among stock market investors. Chinese stocks have fallen by more than half after soaring to records in October.
 The earthquake in May in Sichuan Province does not appear to have hurt the economy, and may even help economic output as towns in the area start rebuilding with heavy government spending.
 More broadly, China's enormous investments in new roads, ports, rail lines and other transportation networks are starting to show productivity gains that could help the country weather a global economic downturn better than most.
 And foreign investment is still pouring into the country, increasingly directed at higher-technology industries, although other Asian countries are also drawing more investment.
 Chris Woodward, the managing director for China at Ryder, the big logistics company particularly active in shipping auto parts, said American companies were still expanding in China and were becoming more focused on the market here even as Chinese exports slow.
 ''People have made huge investments in the infrastructure, and it's not just the physical infrastructure,'' he said. ''It's all the training and people development.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In October, Chinese stocks hit records, and the housing market had been strong for years. Now, a slowdown is emerging.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A bag factory in Dongguan in January. Factory orders were down sharply last month, and many companies have cut production.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS)
An employee at a textile plant in Huaibei. Export tax refunds for garment manufacturers were recently increased.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY, VIA REUTERS)(pg. C4) CHARTS: A Slowdown in China: China's exports are barely growing this year, after six years of expansion that followed the country's entry into the World Trade Organization in November 2001.
A survey of manufacturing purchasing managers in China, released on Friday, showed an unusual month-over-month decline in new orders.
The I.M.F. predicts that the growth in China's gross domestic product will fall more precipitously this year than that of the world in general.(Sources: International Monetary Fund (G.D.P.)
China's National Bureau of Statistics (new orders)
Customs General Administration (exports)
 National Bureau of Statistics (producer prices), via CEIC data)(pg. C4) Chart details line graph for QUARTERLY YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); APPAREL MFG (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BANKING IN CHINA (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



124 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Declines in Voting Rolls in Many States as Democrats Increase

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Well before Senators Barack Obama and John McCain rose to the top of their parties, a partisan shift was under way at the local and state level. For more than three years starting in 2005, there has been a reduction in the number of voters who register with the Republican Party and a rise among voters who affiliate with Democrats and, almost as often, with no party at all.
 While the implications of the changing landscape for Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain are far from clear, voting experts say the registration numbers may signal the beginning of a move away from Republicans that could affect local, state and national politics over several election cycles. Already, there has been a sharp reversal for Republicans in many statehouses and governors' mansions.
 In several states, including the traditional battlegrounds of Nevada and Iowa, Democrats have surprised their own party officials with significant gains in registration. In both of those states, there are now more registered Democrats than Republicans, a flip from 2004. No states have switched to the Republicans over the same period, according to data from 26 of the 29 states in which voters register by party. (Three of the states did not have complete data.) 
 In six states, including Iowa, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania, the Democratic piece of the registration pie grew more than three percentage points, while the Republican share declined. In only three states -- Kentucky, Louisiana and Oklahoma -- did Republican registration rise while Democratic registration fell, but the Republican increase was less than a percentage point in Kentucky and Oklahoma. Louisiana was the only state to register a gain of more than one percentage point for Republicans as Democratic numbers declined.
 Over the same period, the share of the electorate that registers as independent has grown at a faster rate than Republicans or Democrats in 12 states. The rise has been so significant that in states like Arizona, Colorado and North Carolina, nonpartisan voters essentially constitute a third party.
 Swings in party registration are not uncommon from one year to the next, or even over two years. Registration, moreover, often has no impact on how people actually vote, and people sometimes switch registration to vote in a primary, then flip again come Election Day. 
 But for a shift away from one party to sustain itself -- the current registration trend is now in its fourth year -- is remarkable, researchers who study voting patterns say. And though comparable data are not available for the 21 states where voters do not register by party, there is evidence that an increasing number of voters in those states are also moving away from the Republican Party based on the results of recent state and Congressional elections, the researchers said.
 ''This is very suggestive that there is a fundamental change going on in the electorate,'' said Michael P. McDonald, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and an associate professor of political science at George Mason University who has studied voting patterns.
 Mr. McDonald added that, more typically, voting and registration patterns tended to even out or revert to the opposing party between elections.
 Dick Armey, the former House majority leader and one of the designers of the so-called Republican Revolution of 1994, said: ''Obviously, these are not good numbers for the party to be looking at. Democrats have always had extremely broad multifaceted registration programs.''
 But in terms of the presidential election, Mr. Armey said the tea leaves were harder to read.
 ''I think the key in this one is, where do all these new independent voters break?'' he said. ''I think right now, you've got a guy in western Pennsylvania saying, 'I am really disgusted right now and I'm not going to register as a Republican anymore, but I really don't want this guy Obama elected.' ''
 Those in charge of state Democratic parties cite a national displeasure with the Bush administration as an impetus for the changing numbers, which run counter to a goal of Karl Rove, President Bush's former top adviser, to create a permanent realignment in favor of Republicans.
 ''I think nationally and here, people are kind of tired of the way this administration has been conducting the policies of this country,'' said Pat Waak, chairwoman of the Colorado Democratic Party.
 Yet while an unpopular war, a faltering economy and a president held in low esteem have combined to hurt the Republican Party, Democrats are also benefiting from demographic changes, including the rise in the number of younger voters and the urbanization of suburbs, which has resulted in a different political flavor there, voting and campaign experts said. The party has also been helped by a willingness to run more pragmatic candidates, who have helped make the party more appealing to a broader swath of the electorate.
 Among the 26 states with registration data, the percentage of those who have signed on with Democrats has risen in 15 states since 2004, and the percentage for Republicans has risen in six, according to state data. The number of registered Democrats fell in 11 states, compared with 20 states where Republican registration numbers fell.
 In the 26 states and the District of Columbia where registration data were available, the total number of registered Democrats increased by 214,656, while the number of Republicans fell by 1,407,971.
 The unsettled political ground has manifested itself in state and local elections. Twenty-three state legislatures are controlled by Democrats and 14 by Republicans, with 12 states with divided chambers (Nebraska has a nonpartisan legislature). After the 2000 election, 16 state legislatures were dominated by Democrats, and 17 by Republicans, with 16 divided. 
 It is a similar story in governors' mansions. After the 2004 election, there were 28 Republican governors and 22 Democrats; those numbers are now reversed. After the 2000 election, there were only 19 Democratic governors. 
 Elected Democrats have made significant inroads even in places where Republicans have enjoyed a generation of dominance. In Colorado, for example, Democrats control the governorship and both houses of the Legislature for the first time in over four decades. Last year, Virginia Democrats gained a 21-to-19 majority over Republicans in the State Senate, the first time the party has controlled that body in a decade. 
 In New Hampshire, Democrats are in control of both the legislative and executive branches for the first time since 1874. In Iowa, Democrats have taken over the statehouse and the governor's office simultaneously for the first time in a generation.
 The changes in state government could have broad implications for Congressional redistricting and on policies like immigration, health care reform and environmental regulation, which are increasingly decided at the state level. 
 In many states, Democrats have benefited from a rise in younger potential voters, after declines or small increases in the number of those voters in the 1980s and '90s. The population of 18- to 24-year-olds rose from about 27 million in 2000 to nearly 30 million in 2006, according to Census figures.
 Mr. Obama's candidacy has drawn many young people to register to vote, and some of the recent gains by Democrats have no doubt been influenced by excitement over his campaign. But even before Mr. Obama's ascendancy among Democrats, younger voters were moving toward the Democratic Party, demographers said.
 Dowell Myers, a professor of policy, planning and development at the University of Southern California, also noted that a younger, native-born generation of Latinos who have a tendency to support Democrats is coming of age. 
 Further, young Americans have migrated in recent years to high-growth states that have traditionally been dominated by Republicans, like Arizona, Colorado and Nevada, which may have had an impact on the changing registration numbers in those places.
 The changing face of many American suburbs has also had in impact both in voter registration and voting patterns. In many major metropolitan areas, suburbs that were once largely white and Republican have become more mixed, as people living in cities have been priced out into surrounding areas, and exurban regions have absorbed those residents who once favored the close-in suburbs of cities. 
 ''What we speculate is that density attracts Democrats,'' said Robert Lang, director of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech who has researched voting patterns. ''It is not that people move to those areas and change positions. It tends now to be a self-selection of singles, childless couples,'' who tend to vote Democrat more than their married with children counterparts. 
 In the nation's 50 largest metropolitan areas, Democrats carried nearly 60 percent of the Congressional vote in 2006 in inner suburbs, up from about 53 percent in 2002, according to Mr. Lang's research.
 This trend is particularly evident in places like St. Louis, southern Pennsylvania and Fairfax County, Va., which President Bush won in 2000 but lost in 2004. 
 Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who won her seat in 2006, picked up the large majority of voters in the St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas, and Senator Jim Webb, also a Democrat, won his seat in a similar manner in Virginia, which has not voted for a Democrat for president since 1964. 
 Democrats have also succeeded, at least in part, by running centrist candidates where they are most needed. Bill Ritter, the Democratic governor of Colorado and former district attorney of Denver, opposes abortion rights. Among the men who flipped three of Indiana's eight Congressional seats in the midterm election in 2006, two also oppose both abortion rights and gun control. 
 What the demographers, political scientists and party officials wonder now is whether the shift of the last few years will be sustained. 
 ''Major political realignment is not just controlling the branches of government,'' said Mr. McDonald of the Brookings Institution. ''It is when you decisively do it. We haven't seen that in modern generations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Ritter, center in jacket, waiting to vote in Colorado's 2006 election for governor. A Democrat, he easily defeated a Republican.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SEMON/THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS)
Jim Webb, arms crossed, at a rally in 2006, won his Senate race in Virginia with strong support from inner suburbs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Shifting to Blue: More than half of the 29 states that register voters with party affiliations have had increases in the share of Democratic voters since November 2004. The seven with the most substantial increases include two states -- Iowa and Nevada -- that voted Republican in the last presidential elections.(Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 Secretary of State's offices) Chart details registered voters and 2004 results. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); STATISTICS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); JIM WEBB (58%); BILL RITTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



125 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Getting in Shape for Games, China Strengthens Ties With Neighbors

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Until recently, the sight of a Japanese warship steaming toward Chinese shores or of a Chinese aircraft swooping low over Taiwan would have provoked alarm across Asia.
But when Japan's navy made its first Chinese port call since World War II and a Chinese charter plane ferried mainland tourists to neighboring Taiwan this summer, they were symbols not of China's dangerous rivalries, but of the diplomacy that President Hu Jintao has used to defuse them.
After two years of intensive and often secretive overtures, Taiwan and Japan, two neighbors long viewed as the most likely to face a military threat from a rising China have been drawn closer into its orbit.
Improved relations have not only reduced the chances of a flare-up that could disrupt China's turn as an Olympic host, but also helped showcase China's frequent claims to be a new kind of global power that intends to rise on the world stage without engaging in military conflict. 
''China wants to use the Olympics as a turning point,'' said Yang Bojiang, a Japan scholar at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, a semiofficial research organization that advises on foreign policy. ''It wants to make its society turn into a more mature society, increase the comprehensive power of the nation further in the world and improve its international image.''
A Western diplomat echoed the same thoughts in regard to the Taiwan issue. ''The way that China deals with Taiwan will assuage or fuel anxiety over the way China deals with the other neighbors,'' he said, declining to be identified in accordance with normal diplomatic protocol.
In the period leading up to the Olympics, China seems to have had trouble demonstrating that it is living up to its propaganda slogan, ''harmonious society.'' The government's harsh reaction to Tibetan riots in March made it look repressive in Western eyes. Criticism of China's sweeping Olympics-related security measures is growing among advocates for human rights.
China is also not hesitating to assert itself even when its positions put it in direct opposition to the United States and Europe. Beijing joined Russia in vetoing an American-led attempt to impose sanctions on the Zimbabwe government of President Robert Mugabe after most outside observers said he had stolen an election.
And China and India last week battled the United States over measures to protect their farmers, leading to the collapse of a seven-year effort to forge a global trade agreement.
But while Westerners tend to think of China as confrontational, it has so far avoided the kinds of foreign wars that accompanied the rise of other emerging powers in history, including Britain, the United States, Russia, Germany and Japan.
In setting policies toward Taiwan and Japan, especially over the past two years, President Hu has reined in the more hawkish attitudes of other Chinese officials, including army generals, and kept nationalist sentiment in check. That is in contrast to the way the government has often fanned such sentiments, only to see them explode, as they did in the anti-Japanese demonstrations in 2005.
China still threatens that it will invade Taiwan if the island pursues formal independence, and it keeps hundreds of missiles aimed across the Taiwan Strait. China still claims control of islands in the East China Sea over which Japan also asserts sovereignty. But it has recently emphasized its soft power.
''Beijing has adopted a flexible, pragmatic attitude,'' said Chang Jung-kung, deputy secretary general of the Kuomintang, the governing party in Taiwan, and a frequent negotiator with the mainland. ''Beijing's most important concern is to not destroy the Olympics.''
Mr. Hu has taken a risk in his outreach efforts, especially toward Japan. Some Chinese nationalists have sharply criticized Mr. Hu, who visited Tokyo in May, for conceding too much to China's most reviled historical enemy.
In recent weeks, the Chinese government has limited protests over Japan's claims to the disputed islands in the East China Sea for fear that rampant nationalism could mar the Olympics.
One campaigner on the issue, Yin Minhong, said the police had questioned him and were pressuring him to leave Beijing before the Olympics.
Chinese leaders are also trying to tamp down nationalism over Taiwan. Last month, Chinese officials announced they would refer to the Taiwan Olympic delegation by its official name, Zhonghua Taipei, rather than by Zhongguo Taipei, the name favored by people on the mainland. Zhongguo Taipei implies that Taiwan is part of the mainland, and Taiwanese officials are threatening to boycott the Games if China uses it.
Despite that friction, gone are the thunderclouds of the not-so-distant past, when China and Taiwan found themselves constantly at odds. The sudden shift came after Ma Ying-jeou was elected president of Taiwan in March. Mr. Ma replaced Chen Shui-bian, who sought to expand Taiwan's de facto independence.
Mr. Ma's party, the Kuomintang, or Nationalist Party, lost the Chinese civil war to the Communists and fled to Taiwan in 1949, creating the current schism between island and mainland. But unlike Mr. Chen's Democratic Progressive Party, the Kuomintang eschews attempts at formal independence.
Under Mr. Hu's leadership, the Chinese government has worked to strengthen the political position of the Kuomintang in Taiwan while weakening that of the Democratic Progressive Party.
Joseph Wu, the leader of Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council for most of Mr. Chen's second term, said Mr. Hu took a different approach to Taiwan than his predecessor, Jiang Zemin, who stepped down as president in 2003. Mr. Hu is more hard-line on ceding any notion of sovereignty to Taiwan, he said, but more open than Mr. Jiang to discussing economic cooperation.
''Hu Jintao is a hands-on man,'' Mr. Wu said. ''He tries to make his own Taiwan policy, and he has his own advisers who work on it all the time.''
A turning point in the Chinese government's Taiwan policy came in 2005. In March, Mr. Hu's hard-line side emerged: China passed the Anti-Secession Law, which stated in legal terms China's intent to use force against Taiwan if its government tried to declare formal independence.
But the next month, Mr. Hu employed a softer and more subtle tactic. He hosted a meeting with Lien Chan, then the chairman of the Kuomintang, the opposition party at the time. The meeting in Beijing was an attempt to undermine Mr. Chen's authority and extend an olive branch to those in Taiwan who favored integration. It led to a series of visits by Mr. Lien and other officials in Taiwan that has allowed the Communist Party and the Kuomintang to coordinate policy.
As the 2008 elections in Taiwan drew closer, Chinese leaders slowed down economic negotiations with the government of Mr. Chen so that his party would have no positive news on that front to present to voters, the party's officials say.
After Mr. Ma's victory on March 22, Chinese and Taiwanese officials quickly worked together to strengthen relations. They signed an agreement in mid-June to open up flights and tourism.
In China's diplomacy with Japan, Mr. Hu also took the reins. Relations reached a low point in 2005, when Junichiro Koizumi, the Japanese prime minister, repeatedly visited the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which honors Japanese war dead, including some whom Chinese view as war criminals. At the same time, China and Japan were engaged in territorial disputes and Chinese protested the way wartime history was being depicted in Japanese textbooks. Violent anti-Japanese protests flared up here.
The next year, when Mr. Koizumi's chief cabinet secretary, Shinzo Abe, took over as prime minister, Mr. Hu was faced with a problem: Mr. Abe was considered even more conservative than Mr. Koizumi and had visited the war shrine himself, but Mr. Abe was signaling that he wanted to visit China. Here was a chance for a fresh start.
Mr. Yang, the Japan scholar, said Chinese leaders almost certainly reached an undisclosed understanding with Mr. Abe: China would welcome Mr. Abe if he discontinued the shrine visits.
On Oct. 8, 2006, less than two weeks after taking office, Mr. Abe met with Mr. Hu in Beijing.
''The arrangement was made by a quick leadership decision: 'If you want to come, we'll welcome you,' '' said Wenran Jiang, a Japan expert and acting director of the China Institute at the University of Alberta in Canada. ''The Chinese leadership took a gamble on Abe.''
Improved relations helped smooth the way for Yasuo Fukuda, an openly pro-China politician, to take over as prime minister in September 2007. Mr. Fukuda met with Mr. Hu in Beijing in December, and Mr. Hu reciprocated in May, in the first visit to Tokyo by a Chinese head of state in a decade.
''We can't find any document that's as bold as this in describing the bilateral relationship between China and Japan,'' said Jin Linbo, a Japan scholar at the China Institute of International Studies. ''It demonstrated Hu's personal leadership in formulating and implementing China's foreign policy.''
Mr. Jin said that during the visit, Mr. Hu also probably reached an agreement in principle with Mr. Fukuda on joint development of oil fields in the East China Sea, one of the most delicate issues dividing the countries. Chinese and Japanese negotiators later signed a formal agreement. That move has damaged Mr. Hu's standing among some right-wing Chinese, though, and government officials are watching carefully whether the backlash could spark anti-Japanese protests during the Olympics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chinese soldiers paid tribute on Monday to the May 12 earthquake victims, in a ceremony before the passage of the Olympic torch through Mianyang, in Sichuan, the province where the quake struck. China's leaders have been working hard for years to build a diplomatic foundation for the Olympics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GUANG NIU/GETTY IMAGES)
 Hu Jintao showed his table tennis and diplomatic skills in May, on the first Tokyo visit by a Chinese head of state in a decade.(POOL PHOTO BY KOICHI KAMOSHIDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); VETO (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (97%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); TIBET (79%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010



126 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Warns Of Challenges As Its Profit Drops 29%

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings, the biggest European bank, reported a 29 percent decline in profit for the first six months on Monday, saying that the business environment remained uncertain and that growth in emerging markets was expected to slow. 
 Net income fell to $7.7 billion, or 65 cents a share, compared with $10.9 billion, or 95 cents a share, in the first half of last year as loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions increased 58 percent.
 HSBC put aside $10.1 billion for loan losses this year, up from $6.3 billion in the first half of last year.
 ''The first half of 2008 saw the most difficult financial markets for several decades, marked by significant declines in profitability throughout much of our industry,'' HSBC's chairman, Stephen Green, said in a statement. ''The outlook for the near term remains highly challenging with significant uncertainty.''
 Shares of HSBC, which fell 2 percent from the beginning of the year, have so far performed better than those of its rivals in Britain, like Barclays or Royal Bank of Scotland. Investors expect HSBC's growing Asian business to cushion the blow from loan losses in the United States and Europe.
 ''They have fared better than other banks'' in the credit turmoil ''but I'm not sure this will continue because there is still a large exposure to the U.S. consumer,'' an analyst at Pali International in London, Bruce Packard, said.
 In the United States, where HSBC bought Household International in 2003, there are signs that the rate at which delinquencies rose slowed in the last three quarters but it is too early to say whether this will be a long-term trend, Mr. Green said. ''Recession is a real risk,'' he said. ''A recovery in the housing market is unlikely before next year.''
 Michael F. Geoghegan, HSBC's chief executive, said that the United States ''remains a difficult market'' and that the bank would continue to reduce its mortgage portfolio. HSBC had a pretax loss of $2.9 billion at its North American unit, compared with a $2.4 billion profit in the first half of 2007. Charges for bad loans and other provisions linked to credit risk in the United States rose 88 percent to $7.2 billion.
 The bank said that even though it expected growth in emerging markets to ''hold up reasonably well,'' it would have ''less momentum than in the recent past.'' Demand for wealth management and equity capital markets products in Asia declined, it said in a statement. Pretax profit in Hong Kong fell 30 percent, to $3.1 billion.
 ''Emerging markets have not fully decoupled,'' Mr. Green said on Monday in London. ''There is an element of decoupling but it's not complete.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HSBC's chairman, Stephen Green, above, and its chief, Michael F. Geoghegan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VISMEDIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL YEUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL F GEOGHEGAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



127 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

 BODY:
A WARNING REJECTED Richard F. Syron, below, chief executive of the mortgage giant Freddie Mac, routinely rejected warnings that could have protected the company from its financial crisis, more than two dozen current and former high-ranking executives have said.
ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN IN CHINA New factory orders have plunged, exports are barely growing and the real estate market is weakening in China, threatening to further slow worldwide economic growth. [C1.] 
PUSHING NATURAL GAS Congress and consumers are increasingly realizing that natural gas is a cheaper fuel for vehicles, in part because of the efforts of the billionaire Texas oilman and onetime corporate raider Boone Pickens. [C1.]
INFLATION GREW IN MAY Driven primarily by energy and food prices, inflation grew 0.8 percent in May, the biggest monthly increase since September 2005, the government reported. [C1.]
AFTER THE AFFAIR How the consequences of a romantic affair that ended five years ago helped lead to the resignation of Steven Rattner, a Credit Suisse managing director and the head of its private equity arm. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
NEW AIRLINE FEEJetBlue Airways says it plans to charge passengers for a pillow and blanket set on flights lasting two hours or more. [C1.]
ACCELERATED TRAINING The Transportation Security Administration has had to change its training schedule for screeners after new bags enabling travelers to keep laptops in their cases at airport security checkpoints began showing up sooner than expected. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.]
INVESTING IN INDIARupert Murdoch has announced that the News Corporation will invest $100 million in six new regional television channels in India as well as a new Dow Jones index to track the stock markets there. [C3.]
DEFENDING A FIRE SALEJohn Thain, Merrill Lynch's chief executive, says last week's fire sale of mortgage assets was difficult but necessary and was done in part for employee morale. [C3.]
RECOUNT REQUEST A large Yahoo stockholder, Capital Research Global Investors, wants a re-examination of a Yahoo shareholder vote to determine if more votes were withheld for certain directors than was reported. [C2.]
TWO CHIEFS AT MOTOROLA Motorola has appointed Sanjay Jha of Qualcomm to head its troubled mobile phone division and share chief executive duties for the entire company in an unusual power-sharing arrangement. Market Place. [C3.]
SUBPOENA FOR DRUG MAKER The pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson says it has been subpoenaed by the Justice Department in connection with its sales of bile duct stents, widening an investigation that has touched two of its rivals. [C5.]
PROFIT DECLINES AT HSBCHSBC Holdings, the biggest European bank, posted a 29 percent decrease in profit for the first six months, blaming an uncertain business environment and slow growth in emerging markets. [C3.]
LACKING HEALTH CARE A new study of uninsured Americans in the medical journal Annals of Internal Medicine reports that millions of Americans with chronic diseases like diabetes and high blood pressure are not getting adequate treatment. [C5.]
PROMISING TREATMENT A major clinical trial of the drug Byetta, presented at the American Diabetes Association, showed that patients with Type 2 diabetes who were given Byetta had about a 75 percent lower chance of dying than those who took another drug. [C5.]
VICTORY FOR NETWORK DVRS A federal appeals court in New York has ruled that network DVRs do not violate copyright law, giving a major victory to Cablevision and dealing a significant blow to media companies that had filed suit to stop the technology. Advertising. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: ''HSBC Holdings'' shows companies cost per share during last 7 days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MARKET SIZE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NEW ORDERS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); AVIATION SECURITY (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); HYPERTENSION (60%); DIABETES (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (57%); WORKPLACE MORALE (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); NEWS CORP (66%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); QUALCOMM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); JNJ (NYSE) (62%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (73%); SANJAY K JHA (58%); STEVEN RATTNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



128 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Pickens Plan Stirs Debate, And Qualms

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
California automobile dealers report long waiting lists for a Honda Civic that runs on natural gas. In Utah, where natural gas is especially cheap, drivers are scouring the Internet for vehicles that burn it. In Washington, members of Congress are eagerly filing bills favoring natural gas cars.
 In other countries, interest has been rising for years in running passenger cars on the cleanest of fossil fuels, natural gas. Now, in an era of $4 gasoline, some Americans seem to be waking up to the possibility if it might save them money.
 The attention is partly, but not exclusively, because of the efforts of Boone Pickens, the billionaire Texas oilman and onetime corporate raider. ''You have only one fuel that will reduce the oil imports, and you have it in abundance,'' Mr. Pickens said in a recent interview aboard his Gulfstream jet as it streaked from Washington to Dallas -- not propelled, alas, by natural gas.
 Mr. Pickens earned Democrats' ire for backing the ''swift boat'' attacks that helped defeat John Kerry, their presidential nominee, in 2004. At 80, Mr. Pickens has decided to play a markedly different role in this election, committing $58 million to a marketing campaign that he hopes will force the presidential candidates into a discussion of his ideas. 
 Fearing that reliance on foreign oil poses national security and economic risks, Mr. Pickens argues that natural gas produced in North America is a ''patriotic'' fuel that should be used for trucks and automobiles.
 Perhaps not coincidentally, Mr. Pickens's plan aligns with his own business interests. He is the founder and chairman of an energy-focused investment fund, BP Capital, as well as the majority shareholder in Clean Energy Fuels, a company that supplies fuel for natural gas vehicles.
 Mr. Pickens's plan also includes a bid to foster wind power, which he believes could free up some of the natural gas now used for electricity generation. He is one of the country's biggest investors in wind generation.
 With advertisements about them running on television and in print, his ideas are generating broad discussion. But the notion of a mass migration to natural gas vehicles -- now less than 1 percent of the country's highway fleet -- is not universally welcomed. Some analysts say he is underestimating the costs as well as the problems.
 Large industrial users of natural gas, like chemical companies and utilities, have been struggling with gas prices that have sometimes spiked to extraordinary levels in recent years, and they would not welcome a new source of demand.
 ''We don't believe natural gas makes a good transportation fuel,'' said Rich Wells, vice president of energy at Dow Chemical.
 In addition to Mr. Pickens's push, two bills recently introduced in Congress seek to jump-start production of natural gas vehicles through tax credits and other incentives.
 Natural gas is cleaner than gasoline, and at the pump it can cut the cost of transportation fuel by nearly half. However, it can cost thousands extra to buy or convert a vehicle for natural gas. Mr. Pickens claims gas could displace 38 percent of the oil the nation imports, but that would require the sale of tens of millions of vehicles.
 ''There's a role for natural gas,'' said David Friedman, research director for clean vehicles at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group. ''It's just that Pickens's scale is way off the charts.''
 The immediate problem is a lack of fuel pumps. Without them, drivers will not buy natural gas cars. Without the cars, service stations will not go to the trouble of installing pumps. The few people buying these cars often use home refueling kits that cost thousands.
 Another problem is limited vehicle range. The Honda Civic GX, the only such passenger car on the market in the United States, goes only 250 miles on a tank, half the range of many cars. With few fueling stations, drivers on long trips would risk being stranded. Honda is selling the GX only in New York and California, mainly to commuters and for fleets.
 Amid limited public interest, Ford stopped selling natural gas vehicles in the United States in 2004, and General Motors stopped production last year. Higher gasoline prices, however, could alter the calculations, and the car companies are monitoring public interest.
 ''Times have changed since we exited the business and, given the current price of oil, the economics may be different,'' said Kyle Johnson, a spokesman for General Motors, in an e-mail message.
 This year's gasoline price spike, to an average of $4.11 a gallon in mid-July, prompted some consumers to look at alternatives. Some are clamoring for the Civic GX, which is eligible for tax credits and allows single drivers to use high-occupancy vehicle lanes in some areas.
 ''I think we have 8 cars coming and 55 people on the list,'' said Kathie Paulsen, a spokeswoman for Colonial Honda, a dealer near Los Angeles.
 In Utah, where natural gas costs the equivalent of 85 cents a gallon because of a combination of local gas supplies and price regulation, enough drivers have switched that stations cannot compress gas quickly enough to meet demand. ''In some cases, we are not able to give people a full fill,'' said Darren Shepherd, a spokesman for Questar Gas, which operates 19 fueling stations in the state.
 Honda Motor, which brought the GX to market in 1998 to satisfy demand from government fleets, has been caught off guard by the sudden interest. It is doubling its annual production to around 2,000 cars, still paltry, for the 2009 model year. Chris Martin, a company spokesman, cited ''limited production capacity'' and difficulty in obtaining parts like fuel tanks.
 Most of the natural gas vehicles in the United States today are fleet vehicles, like taxis, buses and trucks. Other parts of the world, including Europe, Latin America and the natural gas-producing Middle East, have gone much farther in embracing natural gas vehicles. In Argentina, about a fifth of all vehicles run on the fuel.
 If the United States adopted these vehicles on a large scale without decreasing its use of natural gas for other purposes, prices for the fuel would almost certainly rise. This would discomfit utilities -- which rely on natural gas for slightly more than 20 percent of national power generation -- and chemical companies. They are already braced to pay more for natural gas if Congress passes legislation addressing climate change, which will increase demand for clean fuels.
 ''We're mindful of anything that has the potential of raising the price of natural gas,'' said Steven L. Kline, a vice president at PG&E, a California utility. He added, however, that he would expect any ramp-up to be accompanied by increased supply, particularly from a yet-to-be-built natural gas pipeline in Alaska.
 Reserves of natural gas may also increase because of improving technology for recovering it from unconventional fields, like shale deposits. Two large recent shale discoveries in the Eastern and Southern United States have set off a drilling frenzy. 
 Mr. Pickens argues that a surge in wind-generated electricity could free up natural gas for vehicles. He acknowledged, however, that natural gas played a crucial role in meeting the need for peak power, and that extra demand for natural gas in vehicles could send electricity bills higher.
 In the meantime, acceptance is growing for the idea that the United States could make greater use of wind power. An Energy Department study released in May said that by 2030, the United States could get 20 percent of its electricity generation from wind, up from 1 percent today.
 But a large-scale increase poseschallenges. For starters, a huge investment in transmission lines would be necessary to carry the power from remote, windy areas to large cities.
 Mr. Pickens is personally encountering transmission challenges as he invests in the world's largest wind farm in the Texas Panhandle, a project costing up to $12 billion. Some landowners are upset about potential transmission lines crossing their property.
 In his national plan, Mr. Pickens has pegged the cost of the wind turbines at roughly $1 trillion, not counting additional power lines. But that is wildly optimistic, contends Jamie Webster of PFC Energy, a consulting firm. To displace all generation from natural gas would require turbines costing as much as $14 trillion, he says.
 Mr. Pickens ''wants to paint the rosiest picture,'' Mr. Webster said.
 Still, Mr. Webster said that Mr. Pickens may be doing the nation a service with his advertisements.
 ''The end result of his plan,'' Mr. Webster said, ''is that it could end up influencing the presidential debates and getting a greater discussion of energy security.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boone Pickens presented his natural gas and wind power proposal last week in Topeka, Kan. Mr. Pickens wants to curb American dependence on foreign oil.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/GETTY IMAGES)
Left, drivers in Salt Lake City fueling their cars at natural gas stations. Above, Brett Duke of Mesa Power on rangeland in Pampa, Tex., where Mr. Pickens is planning the world's biggest wind farm.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BOWSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (86%); WIND ENERGY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); CHEMICALS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); CHEMICALS MFG (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (51%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (51%); DOW (NYSE) (51%); DOW (LSE) (51%); 4850 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



129 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: The Winning Hand

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Sometimes the most logical, most obvious solutions are the most difficult to see.
 While the presidential campaign was mired in the egregious and the trivial last week, there was a hearing in Washington that addressed what should be a critical component of the nation's energy strategy. It got very little attention.
 Put aside for a moment all the talk about alternative fuels. They are no doubt important and the wave of the future. But the fastest, cheapest, easiest and cleanest step toward a sane energy environment -- a step available to all of us immediately -- is the powerful combination of efficiency and conservation. 
 That was the message delivered again and again at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee that carried the title, ''Efficiency: The Hidden Secret to Solving Our Energy Crisis.''
 Two political leaders who are no longer very fashionable were on to this long ago -- former Gov. Jerry Brown of California (derided as ''Governor Moonbeam'') and former President Jimmy Carter, who presciently said of the energy crisis in 1977: ''With the exception of preventing war, this is the greatest challenge our country will face during our lifetime.''
 It may be hard to believe, but largely because of far-reaching efficiency and conservation measures imposed by Mr. Brown's administration, California is now among the lowest of all the states in the per capita consumption of energy. If you could take automobiles out of the picture, it would have the lowest per capita consumption of any state.
 Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, noted that California's extraordinary progress in this area over the past three decades was set in motion during Mr. Brown's tenure when the state established building standards that required greater efficiency with regard to heating and cooling. Utilities were also required to operate more efficiently. And the state, to the extent that it legally could, required appliances sold in California to be more efficient.
 ''One of the good things that came out of the oil shock of the '70s was the dramatic push for energy conservation,'' said Senator Schumer. ''Why don't we do more of that now?''
 It's not widely understood how profound a change in overall energy consumption could be realized from a big-time, coordinated efficiency and conservation effort. We don't hear enough about this because it's not sexy. It is not something that has captured the public's imagination. 
 In addition to the obvious need for more fuel-efficient vehicles, we should be demanding more efficiencies from utilities across the country; we should be requiring (as Senator Schumer has been pointing out) that states revamp their commercial and building codes; and we should be trying to weatherize homes from one coast to the other, including the homes of families without enough money to make such improvements themselves.
 And, of course, there are the everyday good energy deeds that would help make a world of difference: car-pooling; taking public transportation when possible; using more efficient lighting; dropping the thermostat a couple of degrees; buying more efficient appliances; unplugging appliances that aren't in use, and so on.
 Dan Reicher, a former assistant secretary at the Department of Energy, told the Schumer panel that increased energy efficiency was ''the real low-hanging fruit in our economy.'' His words echoed those of Al Gore, who described a commitment to efficiency and conservation as ''the best investment we can make.''
 Mr. Reicher, now the director for climate change and energy initiatives at Google, said, ''From cars and homes to factories and offices, we know how to cost-effectively deliver vast quantities of energy savings today.''
 He cited estimates suggesting that an additional global investment in ''efficiency opportunities'' of $170 billion annually over the next 13 years ''would be sufficient to cut projected global demand by at least half.''
 Combining the development of alternative fuels with a real efficiency and conservation effort is the winning hand in the global energy crisis. 
 Because of the high price of oil, people in many parts of the country are already frightened, in the heat of summer, about their winter heating bills. Families are worried about having to choose between mortgage payments and fuel bills, or fuel bills and prescription medicine.
 The Senate considered but was unable to pass a measure that would have substantially increased financing for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program. It was a very bad sign. If the government can't get that done in the current atmosphere, it hardly seems likely that it could move to an even more important step: finding a way to get the homes of these cash-strapped families properly weatherized so that they use substantially less fuel over the course of each winter.
 Energy efficiency and conservation. We know what we should be doing. What we don't have is the leadership, the common sense or the will to get it done. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (87%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



130 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Six New TV Channels in India To Increase Murdoch's Profile

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Deepening the News Corporation's extensive presence in Indian media, the chairman, Rupert Murdoch, announced on Monday that the company would invest $100 million in six new regional television channels there, and he introduced a new Dow Jones index to track the Indian stock markets. 
 He also revealed, at a news conference in Mumbai, plans for a global stock index, though the details remained to be worked out.
 Mr. Murdoch said the six television channels would operate in regional languages, and would be started within the next year. Through its Star unit, the company is already a major owner of television channels in India, and is a minority owner of Tata Sky, an important satellite TV provider in that country.
 The new Indian market index, the Dow Jones India Titans, started on Monday, tracking 30 stocks in one of the world's fastest-growing economies.
 There are Dow Titans indexes in 21 other countries, including Brazil, China, Japan and the major markets of Europe, and the components are chosen by a set of mathematical formulas and weighted by market capitalization.
 Another index, the Global Dow, will track the combined performance of the world's stock markets, including those in the United States. It will start this year, but no date has been set. As with the Dow Jones Industrials Average, the components will be chosen by the editors of The Wall Street Journal, which is published by Dow Jones & Company, a unit of the News Corporation, but the methodology has not yet been determined.
 Dow Jones had already announced plans to increase greatly its coverage of India's economy, one of the fastest-growing in the world. Joining Mr. Murdoch at the news conference, Robert Thomson, managing editor of The Journal, said that the newspaper and Dow Jones Newswires have a total combined staff in India of 25, and would increase that to 70.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rupert Murdochtraveled to Mumbai to make his announcement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAJJAD HUSSAIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (56%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (54%); MATHEMATICS (52%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); DOW JONES & CO INC (85%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%) INDIA (95%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



131 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Exiles Try to Rekindle Hopes for Change in Myanmar

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Win Min has spent 20 years trying to recover a moment of hope in Myanmar, when it seemed that the people had defeated their brutal military rulers and freedom lay ahead.
 Friday is the anniversary of the beginning of a huge popular uprising in 1988 that was crushed by soldiers at the cost of 3,000 lives, leaving the country in the grip of a military junta and setting the course of Myanmar's history ever since -- and likely well into the future.
 ''We had a big hope that we would succeed,'' said Mr. Win Min, who was a student leader in Myanmar, which was then known as Burma. ''It was the biggest struggle ever in Burmese history. Not just in one town but even in remote villages. The whole country was marching in the streets.'' 
 On Thursday, Mr. Win Min will be among a small group of activist exiles who are scheduled to meet here with President Bush, who has given his backing to what has so far been an unsuccessful struggle for democracy in Myanmar. The military junta that seized power in 1988 has only tightened its grip since then, locking up opponents and hunkering down in the face of criticisms and sanctions from the West. The pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, has been under house arrest for 12 of the past 18 years.
 The junta violently suppressed a peaceful uprising led by monks in September and restricted foreign aid to victims after a cyclone in May.
 The generals have demonstrated that they will take whatever steps are needed to retain power, Mr. Win Min said, so it is hard to remain optimistic.
 ''Twenty years afterward, well, you know we won't see that kind of demonstration happen again in the near future,'' said Mr. Win Min, who is now a lecturer at Payap University in Chiang Mai, Thailand. ''And if it happens, we know that as long as this government is in power they will crack down.''
 Since the September crackdown on monks, Mr. Bush has tightened economic restrictions on Myanmar. But some dissidents say the restrictions, along with harsh criticism of the junta, have added to a wall of hostility between the nations that limits Washington's influence.
 This is the message that Aung Naing Oo, another former student leader, hopes to deliver to Mr. Bush.
 In the few minutes he may have to speak with the president, Mr. Aung Naing Oo said, he will urge the United States to move beyond its ''ethical policy'' of supporting human rights and begin pragmatically to engage the ruling generals.
 After the cyclone struck, for example, the United States had little leverage to persuade the junta to overcome its suspicions of interference and accept large shipments of aid from Navy vessels near the coast.
 Shunned by the West, Myanmar has been able to turn to its big neighbor China, as well as to Russia and India, for economic and diplomatic support that undermines any policy of sanctions.
 ''Isolation has pushed the Burmese military toward authoritarian regimes instead of democracies,'' said Mr. Aung Naing Oo, who is now a political analyst in Thailand. ''So it's time for the West to think about these issues in perspective and try to engage the military.''
 While the West and the junta have been locked in mutual isolation, China has been moving in with trade and development projects that have increasingly become part of Myanmar's economy.
 ''The most important development of the last 20 years is not so much suppression of the democratic movement but the opening up to China,'' said Thant Myint-U, a historian who wrote ''The River of Lost Footsteps: Histories of Burma.''
 ''I think the life of the ordinary Burmese people in 10 or 20 years from now will depend much more on how that relationship evolves than almost anything else,'' he said.
 Indeed, the junta may be quite comfortable in its isolation from the West, which began after a military coup in 1962 and continued after the current junta took power in 1988.
 ''We have a long history of isolation in Burma, and that has given the military a free hand to do anything it wants,'' said Mr. Aung Naing Oo. ''Isolation is what the Burmese military wants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Twenty years ago this month, pro-democracy demonstrations erupted in Burma, now known as Myanmar. Protesters, like those at left in September 1988, filled the streets of Rangoon, now known as Yangon, and other parts of the country. But the popular uprising against the junta was soon crushed by the military, and 3,000 people were killed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HISTORY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); ETHICS (60%); HOUSE ARREST (50%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (72%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



132 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Renovation Brings New Vigor to Chicago's LaSalle Street

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
For most of the last century, a seven-block stretch of LaSalle Street, in the central business district known as the Loop, has served as the heart of this city's financial community. 
 The north end of the street is dominated by City Hall and the flying-saucer-like James R. Thompson Center; the south features the headquarters of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Chicago Board of Trade.
 ''LaSalle is Chicago's Wall Street,'' said Tim Samuelson, the city's cultural historian. ''It's the one street downtown where tall, imposingly designed buildings create the kind of canyon effect you find in New York and other cities.''
 This summer, the street has a prominent role in ''The Dark Knight,'' the latest installment of the Batman movie franchise. Much of the film, including a fateful early encounter between the main character and his nemesis, the Joker, was filmed in and around a cluster of massive neo-Classical office buildings, from the 1920s and earlier, at the south end of the street. 
 Over the last two decades, however, LaSalle has lost ground to Wacker Drive, a broad boulevard that intersects LaSalle at the north end and then -- following a bend in the Chicago River -- curves around and eventually runs parallel to LaSalle to the west. 
 Since 2001, three new stainless steel office towers have gone up on Wacker and a fourth is under way. By contrast, there has been almost no new construction on LaSalle in well over a decade. 
 But several new projects suggest that LaSalle is ripe for redevelopment. They also reflect the reality that LaSalle's future lies more in renovation and readaptation than in new construction. 
 ''There's a lot of large landmark buildings on LaSalle,'' said John O'Donnell, president and chief operating officer of the John Buck Company, a large developer with interests on both LaSalle and Wacker Drive. ''A number of them were built around light courts, which was common in the days before air-conditioning but which is generally regarded as an inefficient floorplate today. You can't knock these buildings down, but figuring out how to use them can be tough.''
 The developments consist of two conversions of older office properties to new uses, as well as the renovation of a historic trading floor at the Chicago Board of Trade. 
 The largest project is the conversion of a 975,000-square-foot former bank building at the corner of LaSalle and Adams Streets into a mixed-use complex with office and retail space as well as a 610-room J. W. Marriott Hotel. The developer is Michael Reschke of Prime Group and the architect is Lucien Lagrange Architects, both of Chicago. 
 The project, which is expected to cost $396 million, broke ground this spring and is scheduled to open in 2010. 
 Mr. Reschke acquired the building, which was completed in 1914 for the Continental and Commercial National Bank, in 2005. At the time, it was considered a Class B office property with falling occupancy levels. 
 Mr. Reschke initially planned to renovate all of the office space to up-to-date Class A condition but then rethought the plan after noting the success of a W Hotel just off LaSalle Street in 2000. ''We realized the building would make a great hotel,'' he said. ''The large floorplates -- 68,000 square feet on the lower levels -- as well as the column-free banking hall at the center of the building give us a lot of flexibility in terms of creating rooms and public spaces.'' 
 In the future, the hotel will occupy the first 12 floors of the 21-story building while the upper floors will remain office space. The first floor will also have 18,000 square feet of retail space. 
 The hotel will include two large ballrooms carved out of what was formerly a three-story barrel-vaulted banking hall in the center of the building as well as meeting space and a luxury spa. 
 In addition, a new main entrance with a striking three-story lobby will be created around the corner on Adams Street. 
 J. W. is Marriott's top-tier luxury brand and is aimed at elite business and convention travelers. ''This is a pure business play for us,'' said Don Semmler, executive vice president of full service brand management and operations at Marriott. ''The Federal Reserve is next door and the Chicago Board of Trade is a block away. We think a high-end luxury business hotel is perfect for this neighborhood.''
 A second conversion project is under way at the corner of LaSalle and Wacker Drive where Cape Horn Development, a Miami-based firm, is converting a vintage 420,000-square-foot office building into office condominiums, in which spaces are owned outright rather than leased. 
 ''We want to bring small to medium-size companies downtown,'' said Eduardo Romero, a principal with Cape Horn. 
 In preparation for the conversion, Cape Horn has invested about $5 million in improving the facade and interior public spaces. 
 The building, which is known as the LaSalle Wacker Building, was built in 1929. When Cape Horn acquired it in 2006, it was 92 percent leased to a variety of tenants. Mr. Romero expects 30 to 40 percent of the current tenants to purchase their spaces, which range in size from 500 square feet to 20,000 square feet. Prices go from $220 a square foot to $330 a square foot. 
 Office condominiums have had a mixed reception in downtown Chicago in recent years. Mr. Romero, however, thinks the building's location will be a key selling point.
 ''In Chicago, everyone wants to be either on LaSalle or Wacker Drive and everyone wants a view of the river,'' he said. ''With this building, you can have all of that and also own your own space.''
 The Chicago Board Trade, at the corner of LaSalle and Jackson Boulevard, has dominated the street and the neighborhood for well over a century and is generally considered LaSalle's economic keystone. 
 For years, C.B.O.T.'s chief rival was the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which occupied a leased complex on Wacker Drive. Last summer, however, the two exchanges merged and agreed to consolidate all open trading operations on LaSalle Street. 
 This involved closing the mercantile exchange's 70,000-square-foot trading floor on Wacker Drive and renovating one of the C.B.O.T.'s two trading floors to accommodate the influx of new traders and products. (The combined company -- known as CME Group -- continues to lease significant amounts of office space on both Wacker Drive and in a third building in the West Loop neighborhood.) 
 The project, which was completed at the end of May, added several new trading pits and upgraded the trading floor's computer and electronic infrastructure. The 60,000-square-foot floor now accommodates about 3,000 traders and support personnel, who generate up to two million contracts a day for various financial and livestock futures. Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of CME Group, declined to reveal the cost of the renovation. 
 At 1.5 million square feet, the C.B.O.T. building is one of the largest on the street. CME Group occupies about 385,000 square feet of that total. The rest is rented out to various tenants. In the last year, overall occupancy in the building has jumped from 84 percent to 96 percent.
 The fact that rents on LaSalle tend to be less than on Wacker is a plus. ''LaSalle is one of the most densely built streets in Chicago, but the newest building of any size has floorplates that are 25 to 30 percent smaller than what most people consider desirable today,'' said John Goodman, executive vice president and regional manager of Studley, a national tenant representative firm with offices here. ''Still, downtown Chicago isnot so massive geographically that firms won't go where the bargains are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LaSalle Street, left, is the heart of Chicago's financial district. A former bank building, above, is being converted to office and retail space with a 610-room J.W. Marriott Hotel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); MOVIE FILMING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (84%); CME GROUP INC (73%); JOHN BUCK CO (64%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (73%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (73%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (64%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



133 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Loans From Assembly Speaker Aid Firm That Finances Trial Lawyers

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Carolyn Wilder contributed reporting

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the most powerful defender of trial lawyers in the Legislature, has lent at least $50,000 of his own money to a company that helps finance small law firms that specialize in personal injury lawsuits. 
 Since early last year, Mr. Silver, himself a trial lawyer, made two separate loans to the company, Counsel Financial. The loans come due in 2010, according to his latest ethics disclosure form. Paul R. Cody, the president of Counsel, declined to specify the size of Mr. Silver's loans, but said such notes generally start at $25,000 each and often are much larger. 
 Mr. Silver has long been criticized by business groups and Republicans for vigorously defending the interests of the trial bar in Albany, something he acknowledges but defends as legal and proper. Some critics, along with government watchdog groups, say his loans to Counsel raise new questions about potential conflicts of interest.
 Counsel, which is based in Amherst, a Buffalo suburb, is among a small but growing number of companies that finance lawyers who specialize in suing corporations and government agencies. 
 Issuing loans for as much as $50 million and accepting contingency fees as collateral, Counsel has assisted small firms across the country, including ones that have sued New York City and state agencies like the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 Perry Weitz and Arthur Luxenberg, the named partners at the Manhattan-based firm where Mr. Silver works, serve as co-chairman and vice chairman, respectively, of Counsel Financial. 
 Since becoming speaker in 1993, Mr. Silver has released little information about his private law work. Listed as ''of counsel'' with Weitz & Luxenberg, one of the state's largest tort law firms, Mr. Silver has said that he does not handle any clients with business before the state. 
 ''I represent individual people, many in federal courts,'' Mr. Silver said in an interview last year. ''My clients are plain, ordinary simple people.''
 Lawmakers are considered part-time employees of the state and are permitted to have outside jobs. At the same time, though, the state Public Officers Law prohibits an official from having business interests ''in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the public interest.'' It also says officials should not do things that ''raise suspicion among the public'' that they are violating their public trust. 
 Mr. Silver declined to answer questions for this article, but in the past he has firmly rejected assertions that his private legal work creates a conflict of interest for his legislative duties. 
 ''I don't think it's a conflict,'' he told reporters in 2003, when the issue came up around the subject of capping damage awards. ''How many times do you want to hear this?''
 Mr. Silver's spokesman, Dan Weiller, said in a recent interview, ''He doesn't play any role in who Counsel Financial makes their loans to through his investment.'' Mr. Weiller declined to elaborate on the loans.
 But Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said Mr. Silver's loans to Counsel raised questions because it was difficult to know who was receiving the company's assistance.
 ''This is a problem you have with a citizen legislature, all these business relationships raise questions, and on top of it there's no way for the public to know these relationships are adequately monitored or vetted,'' Mr. Horner said. ''There's an ethics black hole when it comes to these issues.'' 
 Over the past decade, a relatively small group of specialized lenders to plaintiff's law firms has emerged as banks have tightened their lending policies. In return for taking on loans based on contingency fees, lenders like Counsel can command double-digit interest rates. 
 ''A traditional bank is not set up to underwrite the primary asset of a contingent fee law firm,'' said Mr. Cody, the president of Counsel. That asset, he said, was contingency fees. ''We recognize that asset and will lend against it, whereas a bank will typically lend against a balance sheet asset.''
 Mr. Cody would not comment on Counsel's clients, but the seven clients whose endorsements are listed on its Web site include five New York firms. One of the listed clients, Martin Edelman, has been an active lobbyist in Albany on a variety of issues. He takes credit for drafting legislation passed in 2005 that established new guidelines for payments after wrongful death settlements. 
 Counsel has also helped finance Masry & Vititoe, which was made famous by the movie ''Erin Brockovich,'' about an unemployed single mother who wins a huge settlement from a California company accused of contaminating drinking water.
 Mr. Edelman, a past president of the state trial lawyers association, said of Counsel, ''They permit many law firms to continue that otherwise would not have been able to.'' 
 ''A client comes into my office and is badly injured, and I represent them for free, quote unquote, until there's a recovery, and if there is no recovery there's a loss,'' he said. ''That's the system that allows middle-class people to hire lawyers. Only the ultrawealthy would be able to do that otherwise.''
 Critics say Mr. Silver has long been the major obstacle in Albany for those seeking to cap damage claims or otherwise restrict trial lawyers. 
 ''Those of us who work on legal reform know any significant litigation reform is dead on arrival in the Assembly of the State of New York,'' said James R. Copland, director of the Center for Legal Policy at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. 
 ''We know Shelly Silver is not going to let anything happen to upset the plaintiff's bar,'' he added. 
 Assemblyman Joel M. Miller, a Dutchess County Republican and retired dentist, blamed Mr. Silver for blocking recent legislation that would have made it harder to bring malpractice cases. The speaker is also chairman of the Rules Committee, so he can block bills from coming to the floor. 
 ''Like many other pieces of legislation that don't fit into the Rules Committee agenda -- meaning Shelly Silver's -- it died,'' Mr. Miller said. He also blamed the speaker for perennially blocking limits on pain and suffering damages.
 Bob Cohen, the policy director at Citizen Action of New York, a nonprofit group, defended Mr. Silver's support of the trial bar. 
 ''The majority of these injured plaintiffs couldn't afford to pay lawyers on an hourly basis,'' he said. ''Given that, I don't see any problem with the speaker -- we have ethics laws, so assuming he's complied with whatever ethics laws there are -- I don't see a problem with the speaker investing in this company.''
 The Legislature polices its own ethics, and tight controls are kept on how much is revealed to the public. Lawmakers are required to fill out ethics forms delineating holdings of more than $1,000. They are also required to report whether they fall within five ranges of values: from category A, which is $5,000 or less, to Category F, which is $250,000 or more. The values, however, are whited out by the Legislative Ethics Commission -- which is controlled by the Legislature -- before the filings are provided to the news media. 
 Little is known about Mr. Silver's business interests and investments. He has what appears to be a substantial stock portfolio, including 53 stock holdings worth at least $1,000 apiece, according to the filing. And it is not known what he actually does at Weitz & Luxenberg. 
 ''The speaker voluntarily limits his legal work to serve only individuals and personal injury cases and does not represent lobbyists or clients who have business before the state,'' said his spokesman, Mr. Weiller. 
 He would not say whether the speaker ever appears in court to represent clients or describe his legal work in more detail.
 Representatives of the law firm declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (95%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); TORTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); ETHICS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); PERSONAL INJURY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



134 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: LOWER OIL PRICES IGNITE BIG RALLY; DOW IS UP BY 331

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Oil prices touched a three-month low on Tuesday, the latest milestone in a steep reversal for commodity prices that sent stocks soaring and eased inflation concerns among investors and policy makers alike.
 The Dow Jones industrials rallied more than 330 points, its biggest one-day gain since April 1, on a day when Federal Reserve officials declared that the economy was likely to remain weak for months. 
 Fed policy makers voted to hold their key interest rate steady at a very low 2 percent, acknowledging the need to bolster the economy. They also warned that inflation remained ''of significant concern,'' but their concern about rising prices seemed less pressing than it did at their June meeting. 
 They issued a statement suggesting that, given ''the downside risks to growth,'' they have no plans to raise interest rates for the rest of this year. They had previously indicated that their string of rate cuts, intended to soften the blow of the credit squeeze and the housing crisis, had come to an end.
 The statement added a spurt to a stock market already energized by the dip in oil prices, which fell to $119.17 a barrel on Tuesday. The decline set off a Wall Street rally that pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 2.9 percent, its strongest performance since April 1. 
 The pullback in oil prices, which have fallen nearly 20 percent in under a month, has fanned optimism that the crisis in the commodities markets might have eased, and gasoline prices might soon come down further. 
 Of course, the likelihood of a decline is small comfort to the millions of people already facing much higher costs for fuel, food and other products. The price of oil has risen 65 percent in just a year. And the turns of recent months have revealed an oil market with the attention span -- and mood swings -- of an angst-ridden teenager. 
 ''We cannot declare victory that we slayed the dragon yet,'' said Fadel Gheit, who tracks the oil industry at Oppenheimer & Company.
 Among investors, there is a broadly held view that growth is slowing not just in the United States but worldwide, and that demand for fuel will ease in turn and bring oil prices back to more reasonable levels. 
 ''It's a fact that demand is slowing down,'' Mr. Gheit said. ''I do believe, more likely than not, we've seen the peak in oil prices.''
 On Tuesday, investors were eager to celebrate, even if prematurely. During this year's financial travails, stock market enthusiasm has several times been ignited only to be dashed by fresh disclosures of problems at banks or renewed signs that the housing market has still not found its bottom. 
 Market gains were led on Tuesday by shares of financial firms and companies dependent on consumer spending. Makers of tires and airplanes and other industries that have suffered from higher petroleum prices got some relief as well. Chevron, the oil giant, was the only Dow component to decline, slipping 0.4 percent to $82.49 a share. 
 The Dow ended the day at 11,615.77, up 331.62 points, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed up 2.8 percent. 
 In another bit of good news, Cisco Systems, the networking giant, reported a 4.4 percent gain in profit after the close. 
 Oil's decline paralleled a drop in the prices of other raw materials. Corn and soybean prices fell again on Tuesday after rain in the Midwest eased concerns about the fall harvest. The prices of metals -- silver, nickel and copper -- also dropped. Gold fell below $900 an ounce for the first time since June. 
 Raw material prices tend to go up when the dollar weakens, making them a convenient hedge for investors. Gold, in particular, is a popular place to park money when paper currency values are falling. When the dollar strengthens, as it did on Tuesday, commodity prices drop.
 A drop in oil also tends to drag down the entire commodities sector, because of the trading strategies of many big investors. ''When the oil market weakens, it tends to stem the vigor in precious metals,'' said James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC. 
 The Fed's statement issued in early afternoon made no mention of the sinking oil prices and surging stock market, which occurred as the policy makers met in Washington. By a 10-1 vote, they agreed to keep the so-called federal funds rate at 2 percent -- the third month in a row that the rate, which influences the costs of mortgages, car loans and other consumer credit, has stayed steady.
 That move was expected. What drew the attention of Wall Street analysts was the policy makers' decision to partly reverse the assessment of the economy they had issued after their last meeting. In June, the bankers had ratcheted up their worries about inflation while declaring that the downside pressure on the economy seemed to have diminished. 
 This time, they reinstated their concerns about overall weakness, while repeating their view from June that ''the inflation outlook remains highly uncertain.''
 ''They backtracked from their earlier assessment about the downside risks to growth,'' said Lawrence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor. ''That was the most important point in the statement they issued.''
 Between the two meetings, the government reported that consumer spending had weakened, the economy had grown more slowly than expected, the unemployment rate had spiked, and tens of thousands of jobs had disappeared.
 The one dissenting vote came from Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who argued, as he has in the past, that a spike in inflation was imminent and the Fed should raise rates to discourage purchases on credit. A handful of other policy makers have expressed similar views, but they voted with the majority on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A television screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange announced Tuesday's decision by the Federal Reserve.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



135 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Charges 11 In Global Ring Of ID Theft

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors have charged 11 people with stealing more than 41 million credit and debit card numbers, cracking what officials said on Tuesday appeared to be the largest hacking and identity theft ring ever exposed.
The thieves focused on major national retail chains like OfficeMax, Barnes & Noble, BJ's Wholesale Club, the Sports Authority and T. J. Maxx -- the discount clothes retailer that first suggested the existence of the ring early last year, when it said its systems had been breached by hackers.
Underscoring the multinational, collaborative aspect of organized crime today, three of the defendants are United States citizens, one is from Estonia, three are from Ukraine, two are from China and one is from Belarus. The name and whereabouts of the final defendant are unknown. 
Federal officials said a principal organizer of the ring was Albert Gonzalez, a man from Miami who was indicted on Tuesday by a federal grand jury in Boston on charges of computer fraud, wire fraud, aggravated identity theft, conspiracy and other charges. If convicted on all counts, Mr. Gonzalez would face life in prison.
Mr. Gonzalez and several in his cohort drove around and scanned the wireless networks of retailers to find security holes -- known as ''war driving,'' according to prosecutors. Once the thieves identified technical weaknesses in the networks, they installed so-called sniffer programs, obtained from collaborators overseas.
Those programs tapped into the retailers' networks for processing credit cards and intercepted customers' PINs and debit and credit numbers that were stored there. The thieves then spirited that information away to computers in the United States, Latvia and Ukraine.
Officials say the conspirators sold credit card numbers online and imprinted other stolen numbers on the magnetic stripes of blank cards so that they could withdraw thousands of dollars from A.T.M.'s.
''Computer networks and the Internet are an indispensable part of the world economy. But even as they provide extraordinary opportunities for legitimate commerce and communication, they also provide extraordinary opportunities for criminals,'' said Michael B. Mukasey, the United States attorney general, at a news conference in Boston to announce the indictments.
Mr. Gonzalez was first arrested by the Secret Service in 2003 on similar charges. He was subsequently placed on supervised pretrial release and became an informant to the agency in its campaign against organizers of ShadowCrew, a bulletin board where hackers traded stolen financial information.
But prosecutors said that Mr. Gonzalez continued his criminal activities and tried to warn one of his conspirators, Damon Patrick Toey, to ensure that Mr. Toey would not be identified or arrested in the operation against ShadowCrew. Mr. Toey was among those indicted on Tuesday in Massachusetts.
''As soon as we became aware that Mr. Gonzalez was also working with criminals and getting them information, we immediately took action,'' said Mark Sullivan, director of the Secret Service.
A lawyer for Mr. Gonzalez could not be located.
To sell card numbers on the black market, the group turned to Maksym Yastremskiy of Ukraine and Aleksandr Suvorov of Estonia, who were also charged, according to prosecutors.
Mr. Yastremskiy, thought to be a major figure in the international sale of stolen credit card information, was apprehended in July 2007 on vacation in Turkey and is in prison awaiting trial on charges including credit card theft. The United States has asked Turkey to extradite him.
The indictments shed more light on the breach into the stores of TJX, the owner of T. J. Maxx. In 2005, Christopher Scott, another man who was charged, compromised wireless access points at a Marshalls in Miami and used them to download payment information from computers at TJX headquarters in Framingham, Mass., prosecutors said.
The following year, prosecutors said, the conspirators established a virtual private network connection into TJX's payment processing server and successfully uploaded a sniffer program.
In public financial filings, TJX said it had spent around $130 million on matters related to the break-in, including legal settlements, and it expected to spend an additional $23 million in the 2009 fiscal year.
Federal officials did not have an overall tally for the amount of money stolen by the ring, but they offered some glimpses into its profitability. In the indictment against Mr. Gonzalez, federal officials asked that he be forced to forfeit more than $1.6 million, among other assets.
''These guys were obviously sophisticated and organized,'' said Toby Weiss, chief executive of Application Security, a database security firm. ''In this economy, we can't have people afraid to spend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Sullivan, left, director of the Secret Service, and Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey at a news conference on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); IDENTITY THEFT (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); DEBIT CARDS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); LARCENY & THEFT (58%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (58%); T J MAXX (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MUKASEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); LATVIA (71%); ESTONIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



136 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (ABC) CHINA INSIDE OUT: BOB WOODRUFF REPORTS At a time when American foreign policy has been focused primarily on combating terrorism, China has been immersed in making global deals and generating great wealth. In this ''Primetime'' episode Mr. Woodruff (above left, conducting an interview) returns to China and also travels to Angola, Brazil, Cambodia and back to the United States in search of examples of how China is using its growing power and influence to form crucial political and economic alliances.
 8 P.M. (Discovery) NEXTWORLD This new series looks ahead to technological marvels that could have us living like the Jetsons, starting with the floating cities and teleportation devices imagined in this premiere episode. 
 8 P.M. (Fox) SO YOU THINK YOU CAN DANCE In Part 1 of this two-episode season finale, the final four contestants -- Joshua Allen, Twitch Boss, Courtney Galiano and Katee Shean -- perform before the announcement of the winner, scheduled for Thursday. 
 9 P.M. (Bravo) PROJECT RUNWAY Last week more than 80 percent of text messagers voted against Tim Gunn's adopting ''holla at cha boy'' as his new catchphrase. Whew. Meanwhile, Suede and Blake went for the unofficial title of most annoying. And the judges, including the evening's guest decider, Sandra Bernhard, ousted Emily and her ruffled creation, meant to evoke the streaks of light in a long-exposure photograph of Greenwich Village but looking more like a bad disco dream. In this Olympics-theme episode, the contestants must design a sporty outfit. The speed skater Apolo Anton Ohno is the guest judge.
 9 P.M. (CNBC) SAVING GENERAL MOTORS Phil LeBeau ventures to the company and talks with its ''quality czar,'' Bob Lutz, as it struggles to recapture its place at the top. In China Buicks are considered a status symbol, and Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, hopes to expand in India, Brazil and Russia. This hourlong program also looks at the development of the 2009 Chevrolet Camaro, from the design lab in Australia and subzero testing in Canada to a drive with the Nascar star Dale Earnhardt Jr.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) MYTHBUSTERS In this seventh-season premiere the hosts, Jamie Hyneman, far left, and Adam Savage, near left, and their team test propositions submitted by viewers. On the list: whether steak can be tenderized with explosives, and whether driving under the influence of road rage changes a car's emissions.
 9 P.M. (NBC) THE BABY BORROWERS: LESSONS LEARNED In this town-hall-style epilogue the teenage participants in ''The Baby Borrowers'' and the parents of the ''borrowed'' babies sit down with Hoda Kotb and Dr. Drew Pinsky to discuss teenage pregnancy and their experiences on the show. Sarah Brown, chief executive of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy; Richard McKerrow, the creator and executive producer of the series; and three teenagers from Gloucester, Mass., where a reported ''pregnancy pact'' made national headlines, will weigh in, along with experts in adolescent psychology and critics of the show.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) ON THE ROAD IN AMERICA With only two more episodes to go, Ali returns to Egypt and introduces Lara and his new American friends to his family and his hometown, Cairo, where they observe Ramadan, tour the pyramids, sail up the Nile and discuss how Ali changed during his visit to the United States.
 10 P.M. (13) CLICK & CLACK'S AS THE WRENCH TURNS Click and Clack (the voices of Tom and Ray Magliozzi of NPR's ''Car Talk'') discover that their offbeat employee Crusty once invented a zero-emission engine that burns no fuel, and that he was a Harvard professor. Who knew?
 10 P.M. (Bravo) SHEAR GENIUS Will you be having a burger and fries with that? In this week's short-cut challenge, the contestants must use condiments like mustard and ketchup and other kitchen essentials to style their clients' hair. And then they must cut and color the hair of dogs and their owners. Right, Sno E. Blac with one of the pets.
 10 P.M. (Discovery) MAN VS. WILD Bear Grylls begins a new season of battling the elements with a journey to Baja, Mexico, where, with his eyes swollen shut because of a bee sting, he must fend off a rattlesnake.
 10 P.M. (Logo) SORDID LIVES: THE SERIES Brother Boy (Leslie Jordan) goes into a coma, and Latrelle (Bonnie Bedelia) steals Valium while visiting him. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TERRORISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (65%); CHILDREN (65%); WINTER SPORTS (64%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (63%); ICE SKATING (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%); CHRISTIE HEFNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



137 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: MGM Rises on Project News

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MGM Mirage, the casino operator, said on Tuesday that it had lined up more than half of the current financing needs for its CityCenter project on the Las Vegas Strip, pushing the company's shares up. 
 The financing news and strong results at its higher-end resorts outweighed a 69 percent decline in MGM's quarterly profit as the slow economy hurt spending in Las Vegas.
 MGM is developing a number of properties, including the $9.1 billion CityCenter and a $5 billion casino in Atlantic City. Last year, it opened the MGM Grand Detroit and its first property in Macao, China's gambling haven.
 Last August, the company agreed to sell half of the CityCenter development of hotels, condos and retail outlets to Dubai World, which also plans to acquire a stake of up to 20 percent in MGM itself.
 MGM shares were up $4.85, or 15.7 percent, to $35.85 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The company operates resorts including the Bellagio and Mandalay Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (56%); RETAILERS (52%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACAO (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



138 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Gauge for Service Industry Declines

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Service industries in the United States shrank in July for a second consecutive month as a decline in new orders overshadowed an improvement in employment. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses, which make up almost 90 percent of the economy, rose to 49.5, from 48.2 in June, the group said on Tuesday. The reading was higher than forecast, though still less than 50, the dividing line between growth and contraction.
 ''The report over all, especially with forward-looking orders, doesn't bode well,'' Anthony Nieves, chairman of the institute's nonmanufacturing survey, said in a conference call. 
 Economists forecast the index, which includes real estate, financial services, utilities and retailers, would rise to 48.8, according to the median of projections in a Bloomberg News survey. 
 The institute's measure for orders at nonmanufacturing companies dropped to 47.9, from 48.6 in June. The institute's gauge for prices paid by nonmanufacturers fell to 80.8, from 84.5, which was the highest on record.
 Its employment measure increased to 47.1, from 43.8, which was the lowest reading since records began in July 1997. The Labor Department reported last week that service industry payrolls declined by 5,000 in July, the first drop since March. 
 A report from the purchasing managers group last week showed manufacturing stagnated in July as orders slumped to the lowest level in almost seven years. A measure of prices paid, reflecting the cost of raw materials, held near a 30-year high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



139 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: An Energy Diet for Power-Hungry Household PCs

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In its drive to go green, the technology industry has so far focused mainly on big targets like corporations and especially computer data centers, the power-hungry computing engine rooms of the Internet economy.
 Next come the hundreds of millions of desktop and laptop personal computers in households worldwide. 
 Microsoft, the nonprofit Climate Savers Computing Initiative and a start-up called Verdiem are combining to put a spotlight on the energy-saving opportunity in PCs, and distributing a free software tool to consumers to help them do it. 
 The potential savings in both dollars and pollution is huge, analysts say, when the estimated one billion PCs in use globally are taken into account. The research firm Gartner estimates that 40 percent of all carbon dioxide emissions resulting from information technology and telecommunications are attributable to PCs. Data center computers account for 23 percent, and the rest is attributable to printers and telecommunications equipment.
 ''If you are going to tackle climate change and curb energy use, you have to deal with consumer devices like PCs,'' said Andrew Fanara, a product development expert in the Environmental Protection Agency's Energy Star program, which promotes energy-efficient products and practices.
 For more than a decade, the federal Energy Star program has developed voluntary power-management standards for PCs, and suppliers like Intel and Microsoft have steadily improved the energy efficiency of their chips and software. But Mr. Fanara estimated that less than half of PCs met those standards, in part because more energy-efficient hardware adds slightly to production costs.
 ''There are large potential savings beyond what Energy Star can do,'' he said.
 The free software, called Edison, is a consumer version of the PC energy-saving software sold to corporate customers by Verdiem, which is financed by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading venture capital firm and an aggressive investor in green technologies, and other venture investors. 
 Verdiem, based in Seattle, has 180 corporate and government customers, including Hewlett-Packard, which bundles Verdiem's Surveyor program on its desktop PCs sold to corporations. Though he will not disclose sales figures, the company's chief executive, Kevin Klustner, says revenue should triple this year.
 There are other free tools for calculating and managing PC power consumption, including the E.P.A.'s EZ Wizard, CO2 Saver and a Google energy-saving gadget. But Edison allows the user more flexibility, especially in making the settings as stringent as they want, analysts say.
 If a user sets the software to put the machine in a ''deep sleep'' mode after a few minutes of not hitting a keystroke, the hard drive powers down and the PC sips just 5 percent of its normal energy consumption.
 That kind of energy diet is far from standard practice in homes and offices. Half of all electricity consumed by a standard PC is wasted, according to environmental and industry studies.
 Household electricity bills could also be trimmed by $20 to $95 a year for each PC, depending on local power costs and the kind of PCs in use, said Mr. Klustner. ''What we're trying to do is raise the visibility of the power consumption problem on the PC desktop and really bring power management to the masses,'' he said.
 The Climate Savers group, which includes major technology companies and environmental groups, has set a goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from computers by 54 million tons by 2010. That is the equivalent of the yearly pollution from 11 million cars. The goal includes data center computers and PCs, and about half of all PCs are consumer machines.
 ''This kind of energy-saving technology for consumers is a key ingredient in moving toward that goal,'' said Rob Bernard, chief environmental strategist for Microsoft.
 The companies said that the Edison software would be available to download on Wednesday from the Web sites of Verdiem (verdiem.com), Microsoft (microsoft.com/environment), and Climate Savers (climatesaverscomputing.org). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (56%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (81%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



140 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rally as Oil Prices Drop to a Three-Month Low

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Oil prices dropped to a three-month low on Tuesday, and stock markets rallied to their biggest gains in four months, after investors cheered the drop in commodity prices and a statement from the Federal Reserve that suggested the bank would not raise rates soon.
 The Dow Jones industrials closed up 331.62 points while the broader stock market also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 35.87 points, or 2.8 percent, and the Nasdaq index rose 64.27 points, or 2.81 percent. 
 The gains were led by stocks that have performed poorly this year: financial firms and companies dependent on free-spending consumers. 
 Investors were cheered by the steep drop in crude oil, which fell as low as $118 before climbing back slightly. Oil for September delivery fell $2.24 to $119.17 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 While it is difficult to pinpoint the exact causes for daily market moves, some analysts pointed to weather forecasts predicting that the tropical storm hitting the coast of Texas would bypass major drilling platforms and refineries. That would mean no serious disruptions to domestic oil supplies, which some had initially feared.
 There is also a broader sense among investors that the slowdown in economic growth will curb fuel demand around the world, pulling prices back to more reasonable levels. Oil prices have fallen about 17 percent in three weeks. Gas prices in the United States have dropped back below $4 a gallon. And the economic downturn has been worse in some countries than financial experts had anticipated.
 ''There's no real magic other than the softening economy,'' Ric Navy, an analyst at BNP Paribas, said. ''You can try to decide whether it's anything more than that, but that's in the eye of the beholder.''
 The decline came in tandem with a similar drop in the prices of other commodities like corn, wheat and rice. Corn and soybean prices fell again Tuesday after rain in the Midwest eased concerns about the fall harvest. The prices of other commodities -- gold, silver, nickel and copper -- also dropped.
 Raw material prices tend to go up when the dollar weakens, making them a convenient hedge for investors. Gold, in particular, is a popular place to park money when paper currency values are falling. When the dollar strengthens, as it did on Tuesday, commodity prices drop.
 A drop in oil also tends to drag down the entire commodities sector, because of the trading strategies of many big investors. ''When the oil markets weakens, it tends to stop the vigor in precious metals,'' James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC, said. 
 European stocks performed even better than Wall Street: in afternoon trading, the benchmark indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris were up more than 2 percent.
 Markets made a slight jump higher after the central bank held its benchmark rate steady at 2 percent. 
 Emphasizing the dangers to the economy, the Fed said in its statement that a substantial easing of interest rates in recent months, ''combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate economic growth.''
 By a vote of 10 to 1, policy makers declared that inflation remained ''of significant concern'' -- a description that seemed to give less importance to the inflationary risks of keeping rates low than the policy makers had at their meeting on June 25. 
 Earlier on Tuesday, the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, reported that activity among service-oriented businesses was better than expected in July. The group's index rose to 49.5 from 48.2 in June, on a scale where readings below 50 indicate contraction. While the industry is still suffering from the downturn -- new orders fell for the month, including orders for both exports and imports -- there were no signs of a significant collapse.
 In overnight trading, Asian stocks fell on the slump in commodity prices, which dragged down commodity producers. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 2.5 percent, to close at 21,949.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); WEATHER (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%) GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



141 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Where the Race Now Begins at Kindergarten

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Parents who sent their toddlers to the well-regarded Mandell preschool on the Upper West Side used to count on getting into the private school of their choice.
 But with the recent boom in the city's under-5 set, the competition for kindergarten places can rival that of Ivy League admission. This spring, for the first time, several of the 43 Mandell preschool graduates found themselves without anywhere to go. So Mandell, which has been around for generations, decided to do its part to ease the kindergarten crunch by opening its own $2 million elementary school, in a 17,000-square-foot storefront on Columbus Avenue at 96th Street.
 ''I think we've reached a crisis level in terms of capacity,'' said Gabriella Rowe, Mandell's head of school. ''Although the majority of our families are still going to be able to send their children to their first-choice school, it's clear that it's going to become more difficult every year if these numbers continue to increase.''
 The new school, financed through bank loans, will start with 50 kindergarten students in two classes. Ms. Rowe plans to expand to 450 students through 8th grade by 2017. Tuition is $28,000 for the 2008-9 school year, rising to $30,000 the next year. 
 Despite mounting layoffs on Wall Street and the broader economic downturn, private schools in New York City continue to thrive, with administrators and consultants saying this year has been the most competitive yet for admission to kindergarten. Some estimate that several hundred children were rejected from every place they applied. 
 About 150,000 students are enrolled in private and parochial schools in New York City; about 1.1 million attend the city's public schools.
 Emily Glickman, a private school consultant for Abacus Guide Educational Consulting, which helps parents gain admission to private schools, said competition had intensified not only for brand-name schools like Dalton, Collegiate and Trinity but also for lesser-known and newer schools, as more couples opt to have two or more children; more families remain in the city rather than moving to the suburbs; and the wealthy in New York get wealthier.
 The Claremont Preparatory School, which started in Lower Manhattan in 2005, is expanding to seven kindergarten classes from three after receiving more than 1,100 applications this year, up from 700 the year before. Claremont, which has nearly 500 students in kindergarten through eighth grade, also plans to open a high school in September 2009. 
 In Brooklyn, a group of parents and educators in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill are also opening a new private elementary school, the Greene Hill School, which will emphasize hands-on learning in art, music, and physical education and cost $13,500 a year, according to Diana Schlesinger, the school's co-director and a former director of the education program at the American Folk Art Museum. 
 On the Upper West Side, the Mandell School was started in a brownstone on 94th Street in 1939 by Ms. Rowe's grandfather, Max Mandell, who had worked with runaway boys at Bellevue Hospital Center. Every morning, he stood outside in a suit and tie to greet his students.
 Ms. Rowe, 42, a petite woman with red hair, grew up above the preschool and used to help empty the trash and paint the classroom walls. She attended the Nightingale-Bamford School on scholarship, then majored in French and European history at Bryn Mawr College. She worked as an investment banker at Merrill Lynch and as a management consultant before joining the family business in 1999. 
 Ms. Rowe said she began planning an elementary school five years ago to allow families to continue their education at Mandell, which emphasizes a progressive curriculum of academics, citizenship and community involvement. She pushed up the timetable in December when she saw the increased demand for private school slots. By February, she had received 50 applications for the first kindergarten class of 25, including two from children in Mandell's preschool. In March, she opened up a second 25-student kindergarten class, and received 100 more applications within 48 hours.
 Colette Alderson, whose 5-year-old son was in preschool at Mandell, said that she and her husband, Scott, the president of a software company, looked at other schools but decided not to apply. ''I knew the fit was right, so I didn't see a reason to change schools,'' said Ms. Alderson, 40. ''I didn't really view it as a new school, but as an extension of a very established, well-known preschool.'' 
 Another parent, Cheryl Wischhover, chose Mandell's elementary school for her 5-year-old son over a public-school gifted program, saying she liked the focus on teaching to each student's strengths and weaknesses, the well-planned curriculum and the school's close relationship with families. Ms. Wischhover, 37, a pediatric nurse practitioner, said she applied to five other private schools for her son, but was rejected by one school and wait-listed by the other four. 
 ''Many people I know got into at least one school, but I definitely know people who didn't,'' she said. ''It was a really tough process.''
 Ms. Rowe has hired 20 new teachers, including specialists in fine arts, music, drama and physical education, and a psychologist, and promises a five to one student-teacher ratio for the elementary grades. She is also negotiating for an additional 47,000-square-foot space nearby for the upper grades.
 She said she had been fielding calls all summer about kindergarten in the fall of 2009, though applications will not be officially available until Aug. 18. ''I expect the real chaos will come in September,'' she said.
 Mandell's preschool students are guaranteed a place in the elementary school, and seven families have already said they plan to attend in 2009-10, Ms. Rowe said. She added that she would continue to help preschool students get into other private schools if they prefer. This spring, five students were admitted to Dalton, four to Brearley, and three each to Chapin, Collegiate, Trinity, Spence and Nightingale-Bamford, some of the most competitive private schools in the city, she said. 
 With the first day of school looming, Ms. Rowe checked on the construction last week at two lower floors of the red-brick high-rise that will house the elementary school. She raced from one end to the other, pointing to empty spaces that would soon hold a first-grade classroom, an art studio, a music room, a nurse's office, a teachers' lounge and a school psychologist's office. ''I know the floor plan in my sleep,'' Ms. Rowe said, stepping nimbly over construction materials piled on the concrete floor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at the Mandell preschool on the Upper West Side. The private school is opening an elementary school in the fall in response to the growing need. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Mandell offers summer programs to its students. Some say this year has been the most competitive for admission to kindergarten. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); FAMILY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



142 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: High Cost Seen On Nuclear Dump

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Even if no new reactors are built, getting rid of the country's nuclear waste will cost $96.2 billion and require a major expansion of the planned Nevada waste dump beyond limits imposed by Congress, the Energy Department said. The government now says the Yucca Mountain project, about 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas, will cost $38.7 billion more than was anticipated in 2001, when the department estimated the life cycle cost of the program at $57.5 billion. Ward Sproat, the Energy Department official in charge of the federal nuclear waste program, said $16 billion of that increase was pegged to inflation. The estimates cover waste only from existing reactors and from the military. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (88%); LANDFILLS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (87%) NEVADA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



143 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Building a Technology Park in Baltimore by Rehabilitating a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Bulldozing entire neighborhoods to revitalize them seemingly went out of fashion decades ago, after the first mid-20th-century efforts at urban renewal were denounced as failures. 
 But in the blocks just north and east of the vast and expanding Johns Hopkins Hospital here, that is precisely what is happening. The medical institution and Forest City Enterprises, a Cleveland-based building company, have joined forces to demolish a neighborhood to save it. Huge blocks of row houses have been razed, and many more are destined for the bulldozer. 
 As it was, the neighborhood -- a shooting location for the HBO series ''The Wire'' -- stood in sharp contrast to the gentrifying neighborhoods of Butchers Hill and Canton to the south. 
 The hospital, now undergoing a $1.2 billion expansion, seemed perfectly positioned to inspire a renewal.
 ''It was obvious the community was falling apart,'' said Dr. Edward D. Miller, dean of the medical faculty and chief executive of the hospital since 1997. ''I could see drug deals from my office.''
 Now, the area, sometimes referred to as Middle East Baltimore, is re-emerging as the New East Baltimore, offering the promise of turning what had become an urban wasteland into a vibrant 88-acre community centered on a medical science and technology office park, which includes laboratory space. 
 In the first phase, 1,200 houses, three-fourth of them vacant, were acquired and torn down. A 278,000-square-foot building, called the John G. Rangos Sr. Building, opened in April and now has five tenants. Slightly more than half of the space is still available, although other leases are said to be close to signing. 
 This is the first of five planned buildings. Work on the second is expected to get under way early next year. The first four buildings are to be devoted largely to lab facilities and science and technology companies. The fifth is to include more traditional office tenants.
 One tenant in the first building is BioMarker Strategies, which is developing a cancer diagnostic device. Its president, Scott Alloco, said the company's decision to lease there was based in part on proximity to Hopkins.
 There are also 152 units of subsidized housing with one, two or three bedrooms in two four-story buildings; they are 12 percent occupied by people who were living in the area previously. There are also 63 town house apartments under construction: 14 are to be for rent and 49 for sale; some are to be at market rate and others will be subsidized. 
 Ultimately, the development is expected to have 2,400 units of mixed-income housing, 1.4 million square feet of laboratory and office space, and up to 400,000 square feet of retail and small commercial space for businesses like a dry cleaner. As many as 4,000 people are expected to work there.
 The entire project, which is expected to take 10 to 15 years to complete, will also have green space, graduate student housing, and, on seven acres, what will be the first new public elementary and middle school in Baltimore in 30 years. The total investment is said to be $1.8 billion. 
 The lead developer, Forest City, owns and manages more than $10.5 billion worth of development in the United States. One of its affiliates, Forest City Ratner, was the development partner for the new Manhattan headquarters of The New York Times Company.
 For the Baltimore project, Forest City has joined with Presidential Partners, a consortium of local builders and developers. One company in the consortium is Harrison Development, whose president and chief executive, Dean Harrison, grew up in the city. East Baltimore, he recalled, ''was on the wrong side of the political fence.'' 
 But right in the middle sat Johns Hopkins University, its hospital and medical school, with 30,000 employees and growing. 
 ''Academic institutions are economic drivers,'' said Frank C. Wuest, president of Forest City's Science and Technology Group, which undertook a similar project in Cambridge, Mass., where space for science and technology companies was developed next to M.I.T. ''The jobs are following the brain power.''
 To accumulate land for the site, the city, state and Johns Hopkins in 2003 created East Baltimore Development Inc. to acquire buildings, tear them down, and then sell the land to developers. Hopkins put in $15 million, and $20 million more came from the Annie E. Casey Foundation. 
 Enthusiasm for the project has not been universal. Initial opposition came from lower-income residents and their advocates, who sought a greater voice and compensation for their displacement. 
 At least some residents welcomed the change, however, accepting relocation packages -- 153 homeowners received an average of $153,000 a house, and moving expenses, and 243 renters received $50,000.
 The cynical view expressed by some community activists and academics is that local government and the hospital teamed up not to save the neighborhood but to annex it. 
 ''Now government is almost a surrogate of private industry in gentrifying'' neighborhoods, said Ray Winbush, director of the Institute for Urban Affairs at Morgan State University, which is in Baltimore. 
 Dr. Miller confirmed that the university did acquire properties ''whenever we had the opportunity,'' with an eye to the future, but only those that were already vacant. 
 ''A neighborhood changes incrementally,'' said Scott Levitan, Forest City senior vice president and development director for the project. ''It's filled with people who've owned their house, meticulously maintained it, and you wake up one morning and the neighborhood has disintegrated around it. It's not anyone's fault. Hopefully, this is the last time we'll have to demolish a neighborhood in order to save it.'' 
 Baltimore's bank account also stands to benefit. Properties in the first phase were assessed at $4 million, yielding only $90,000 in taxes, before redevelopment. When redeveloped, the same land is projected to yield $9.6 million in property taxes, and that's just for the first 31 acres. 
 That was not the primary goal, however, Mr. Levitan said. ''This is not just about money but about a new economy for the city,'' he said. ''It's a real opportunity to create a new model of inclusive city rebuilding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The John G. Rangos Sr. Building opened in April near Johns Hopkins Hospital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); CANCER (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DISEASE MARKERS (61%)

COMPANY: FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (57%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (57%); FCEA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (57%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



144 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Baby, It's Going to Be Cold Inside

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
In a season of roller-coaster energy costs, the drop in oil and natural gas prices in recent days was greeted as good news. But they remain so high that experts are predicting that heating bills this winter will far exceed those of last year.
 Even after a precipitous decline from its peak in early July, the price of natural gas is still 11 percent above where it was last winter. 
 Heating oil is 36 percent higher, with the government projecting that the costs of both fuels will stay high. Electricity prices are also up moderately. 
 Higher heating costs will hit particularly hard in the Northeast, where many people use heating oil. 
 Given how unpredictable energy markets have become, most fuel dealers are not offering their customers price protection plans, or locked rates, as they typically do at this time of the year, said Dan Gilligan, president of the Petroleum Marketers Association of America, the biggest trade group for fuel retailers. 
 Locking in such protection makes sense in the summer when heating oil normally sells at a discount and consumers can expect prices to rise in the winter. This year, however, few households are willing to take a bet on where energy prices may be headed. Retail heating oil is selling today at around $4.50 a gallon, compared with $3.30 last winter and less than $2 a gallon only three years ago.
 ''The market has been completely turned on its head this summer,'' said Andrew Heaney, who runs a New York heating oil cooperative, Heat USA. ''I've been in this business for 15 years, and this is the most volatile we've ever seen.''
 A recent editorial in a small-town Vermont newspaper warned of calamity. Record heating oil prices ''could be New England's own Katrina disaster,'' wrote The Stowe Reporter. 
 ''The cost of energy is getting out of reach,'' said Mark Wolfe, the executive director of the National Energy Assistance Directors' Association, which represents state programs offering help to poor households. 
 ''It's not just going to affect poor people, but also moderate to middle-class households. People are going to become more impoverished to pay for heating this winter.''
 Heating oil retailers face another problem. Given the nation's credit crisis, many say they are finding it hard this year to get new credit lines from banks to help them cope with the rise in prices. As a result, they are not building inventory as much as they would in a normal year, Mr. Gilligan said. ''The cost of hedging has become very pricey,'' he said.
 ''People are going to have a tough time,'' said David Moody, the dispatcher and a driver at Flynn's Oil Company, a small distributor in Exeter, N.H. ''We are trying to avoid having angry customers. Having angry customers before the start of winter, well, that's not good business.'' 
 The average heating oil bill in states like Massachusetts, Maine and New Hampshire, in a region where eight million households use heating oil to fire their furnaces, is set to jump by as much as $1,500 this winter compared with last year, according to estimates derived from the government's latest forecasts for energy prices. 
 Amid a slowing economy, high energy costs are weighing heavily on pocketbooks, and have become a major political issue. Airlines and automakers have posted billions of dollars in losses, consumers have cut some of their spending to compensate for costlier gasoline, and soaring energy prices have contributed to inflation across the economy. 
 But Democrats and Republicans are deeply split about how to respond. The deadlock in Washington was apparent last month when the Senate failed to pass a bill to double energy assistance to low-income households because Republicans insisted on including measures to allow for more offshore drilling.
 ''This could be the winter of our discontent,'' said Daniel J. Weiss, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress. ''This is going to have a huge impact. It will start to pinch people in September and October and could influence this fall's elections. Remember, it is much easier for people to drive less than it is to heat less.''
 Consumers are not entirely powerless, of course, and have already started to react to higher energy bills. Gasoline consumption is down by 2.4 percent in the last month, compared with the same period last year, according to the latest figures from the Department of Energy. 
 Oil futures, which reached a record of $145.29 last month, closed at $119.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Tuesday. Gasoline prices have also declined after reaching a nationwide peak of $4.11 a gallon. Gasoline is now selling for $3.87 a gallon on average, according to AAA, the automobile group.
 Heating oil futures settled Tuesday at $3.28 a gallon, down 2 percent. Retail prices can add $1 a gallon or more to futures prices after marketing and distribution costs. ''The deteriorating demand picture reinforces our belief that oil prices are approaching a tipping point,'' energy analysts at Lehman Brothers said in a report last week. They forecast crude oil prices to average $90 a barrel by the beginning of next year.
 With prices still high, policy makers are under pressure to act. While Democrats want to rein in what they see as excessive speculation in commodity markets and have proposed to release some oil from the nation's strategic reserves, Republicans are pressing to open more areas to offshore drilling. This deadlock has prevented the passage of any energy legislation lately, although many experts say there is little Congress can do to reduce prices in the short term.
 ''It is one thing if you can't drive your car, but it is quite another thing if you can't stay warm on a cold winter night,'' said former Representative Joseph P. Kennedy II, the president of Citizens Energy, a nonprofit organization that provides low-cost energy assistance to poor people. 
 Mr. Kennedy and others have urged Congress to provide more money for the federal energy assistance program, which helps poor households pay their energy bills. But a proposal to double the program's financing to $5.1 billion failed in the Senate two weeks ago by 50 to 35, as Republicans opposed the bill because it did not include any provision to increase domestic energy supplies, and the White House threatened to veto it. 
 At last year's financing level of $2.5 billion, only 16 percent of households eligible for energy aid received money from the program, called the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, and known as Liheap. 
 Senator Bernie Sanders, Independent of Vermont, said before the vote, ''The economy is tough, and the reality is that we will have people freezing to death this winter if there is no substantial increase in Liheap funding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Moody of Flynn's Oil in Exeter, N.H., delivers home heating oil. Retail heating oil costs about $4.50 a gallon, up from $3.30 last winter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''People are going to have a tough time,'' said David Moody of Flynn's Oil, a small fuel oil distributor in Exeter, N.H.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) CHART: Better, but Still Costly: Oil prices have declined in recent weeks, but they are still much higher than they were at the same time last year.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graphs for heating oil and crude oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); FUEL DEALERS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (88%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PETROLEUM MARKETERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



145 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Google's New Tool Is Meant for Marketers

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
GOOGLE is giving everyone a chance to peek deeper into its database of search requests and discover the things that preoccupy individuals and, in aggregate, entire cities, states or nations, at any one time. 
 On Wednesday, the company is introducing a free service called Insights for Search. The tool is intended for marketers, but it allows anyone to track the popularity of various words and phrases that people type into Google's search box. 
 The service is an extension of Google Trends, a two-year-old service that, for instance, reveals that Cisco's stock price and Michael Lockwood, the husband of Lisa Marie Presley, were two of the most searched terms Tuesday afternoon. 
 The collection of search queries that people type into Google has been called a ''database of intentions'' since it is a window into what people are interested in and, sometimes, what they are interested in buying. 
 Insights allows anyone to analyze the results in much greater detail than Trends does. Users can slice the data by categories to distinguish, for example, searches for Apple the company and apple the fruit. 
 ''If you are the head of the Washington apple growers association, you may be interested in this,'' said Hal Varian, Google's chief economist.
 Users can also slice the data into finer geographic areas than with Trends and view it on a map. And they can download the data onto spreadsheets to compare it to their own forecasts or research. 
 The tool is aimed primarily at marketers, who may use it to devise and track advertising campaigns. A car company, for instance, could experiment with different versions of a television ad in Cleveland and Columbus, and check the number of resulting searches in each city to see which one is more effective. Or it could use the data to find out where users are searching most actively for ''fuel efficiency'' and aim ads for a gas-sipping vehicle there. 
 ''It gives you much better insights in terms of what's happening on a geographic basis, potentially allowing advertisers to target geographically,'' said Danny Sullivan, the editor of Search Engine Land. Mr. Sullivan said Google has long given marketers the ability to target ads geographically, but not the tools to learn how to do it most effectively. 
 Grant Prentice, director of connections research and analytics at Starcom MediaVest Group, said his company uses Google Trends to help devise strategies to reach consumers online and offline. ''We have been using it as a research tool to give us some insight into the relative importance of different terms that people may be using to search on a particular subject,'' he said. 
 Mr. Varian said that while Insights was developed with marketers in mind, the economist hopes it will also be used by others. ''We are also very interested in uses like the economic forecasting, finance, sociological studies, even in etymological studies to track how new words spread in the population,'' Mr. Varian said. 
 Researchers who track activity in various sectors of the economy could use Insights to get a quick snapshot of the volume of searches for terms related to that sector and get a sense of whether economic activity in that sector is increasing or decreasing. 
 For instance, Insight shows that searches related to home inspections and appraisals in the real estate category rose sharply nationwide in the second half of July. That might suggest to forecasters -- as well as marketers -- that the residential real estate market is showing signs of life. Of course, searches for foreclosures were also up sharply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); APPLE ORCHARDS (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



146 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Economists Plumb the Depths of the Downturn

BYLINE: By ABHA BHATTARAI

 BODY:
Even if the economy continues to deteriorate, economists generally agree that the United States is not heading for another Great Depression.
 Not only are the conditions far less dire, eight economists said in interviews, but the government is playing a heightened role in trying to cushion the impact of the housing downturn, losses at financial institutions and rising unemployment.
 ''The government is larger now and it acts as an anchor,'' said Richard Parker, senior fellow at the Shorenstein Center at Harvard. ''During the Great Depression, the government had neither the means nor the capability to serve as a backstop.'' 
 But the economists -- who range from academics to policy researchers, liberals to conservatives -- disagreed about just how bad this economic slowdown, led by the worst housing slump since the Depression, could be.
 ''I think we'll see a miserable job market and, consequently, an eroded standard of living for the vast majority of Americans for several years,'' said Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization in Washington.
 ''This is indistinguishable from a recession for a working family,'' Mr. Mishel said. ''They're losing jobs, and they're getting a double bite as wage growth slows down and inflation kicks up. People are losing out on both ends.''
 But others said that the economy would probably grow in the second half of this year, although at a low 1 to 3 percent pace. 
 ''You read the headlines and you look around and you think the world is coming to an end,'' said Charles W. Calomiris, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group in Washington. ''But I don't think so. If you're going to tell a worst-case scenario story at this point, it's only going to be because the Fed loses control.'' 
 The Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department have already stepped in. The Fed has cut its benchmark federal funds rate to 2 percent, from 5.25 percent last August, though it left rates unchanged at its meeting on Tuesday.
 In March, the government worked out a rescue plan for Bear Stearns when it became clear the investment bank was on the brink of collapse. And last month, Congress approved legislation that includes money for homeowners facing foreclosure and a possible bailout of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 Most of the economists who were interviewed blamed Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1987 to 2006, for his unwillingness to clamp down on either the technology stock bubble or the run-up in housing prices.
 ''The Fed isn't the whole story, but it's a big part of it,'' said Gerald P. O'Driscoll Jr., who was vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas from 1982 to 1994 and is now a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization in Washington. ''It allowed these absolutely insane bubbles to happen. The lesson is, you can't let these bubbles continue unabated with no policy making.''
 But the economists said others were to blame, too: investors, banks and rating agencies, as well as the current chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, and the Clinton and Bush administrations.
 ''They thought it was just a great thing that the stock market kept going higher and higher,'' said Dean Baker, co-director at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research group in Washington. ''Then, of course, Wall Street just ran wild. It was some mix of irresponsibility and downright greed. They're all sort of on the hook, but Greenspan sits front and center.''
 The economy's woes might have been preventable, the economists all agreed, if the actors involved had made more realistic assumptions about the future. And about the laws of gravity.
 ''People are way too willing to extrapolate from history,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs. ''If it's 2005, you can't look at a 40-year run of data and say, 'It must be a law of nature that housing prices never fall.' ''
 The fact that average wages have not kept up with inflation has compounded the economy's problems. Unemployment has also been creeping higher. Still, joblessness remains at 5.7 percent, while in 1933, one-quarter of the American work force was unemployed. In addition, the economy lost one-third of its value from 1929 to 1933.
 Peter Cappelli, a management professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, compared the current battered economy to a boxer.
 ''The punches haven't stopped long enough for him to catch his breath,'' he said. ''If the punches would stop, even for a second, the economy could catch its breath and pick itself up.''
 The conservative economists said they thought market forces would play a dominant role in turning around the economy.
 ''This economy will get back on its feet, no thanks to Washington,'' said J. D. Foster, senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington. ''There's not much that politics can do at this point for the markets.''
 Mr. Calomiris of the American Enterprise Institute said: ''We do need some regulation -- smarter regulation -- to prevent the abuse of the safety net. But first we need to fix our broken regulations.''
 But the liberal economists said what was needed was a combination of government regulations and policies, international negotiations, lower commodity prices and stabilization in the financial sector, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 All the economists agreed that regulators should have been looking more closely at Fannie and Freddie.
 ''Everybody turned a blind eye,'' Mr. O'Driscoll of the Cato Institute said. ''The Fed deliberately and consciously refused to regulate the mortgage industry like it was supposed to have done. I'm not a big fan of government regulation, but sometimes the government can do something to help -- and in those cases, it has to.''
 Mr. Parker, from Harvard, said: ''Wild fluctuations have made it harder and harder for the average American family to improve their lives. You need to strike a balance between freedom and security for your citizens. This is a democracy, but we need to pick between a market-led democracy and democracy-led markets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAWRENCE MISHEL: Economic Policy Institute(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DEAN BAKER: Center for Economic and Policy Research(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PETER CAPPELLI: Wharton School(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY C. BOWER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JAN HATZIUS: Goldman Sachs(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 RICHARD PARKER: Shorenstein Center, Harvard(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); FORECLOSURE (64%); APPROVALS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (61%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (61%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



147 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Important? If You Are, Torah Study Can Visit

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
The Bible says there is a time for every purpose under heaven. But for one group of rabbis whose purpose is teaching some of New York's wealthiest and busiest people about Judaism, time has to be understood as a kind of standby ticket.
 Financial crises occur. Personal trainers need their access. The All-Star Game can run late. 
 ''I had some, uh, mixed feelings, Seth, about your missing our last appointment,'' said Rabbi Stuart Shiff, sitting one morning the other week across the table in a Midtown office from one of his private students, Seth Horowitz, executive vice president of Modell's, the sporting goods company. 
 Like many such sessions, this one began with an apology: Mr. Horowitz explained that he had been at the 15-inning All-Star Game with clients until 2:30 the morning of the last session, and on top of that his infant son had hurt himself -- not seriously, but still. ... 
 The rabbi thumbed the pages of the Torah on the table. ''I hurried back from a weekend trip with my family to be with you,'' he said. 
 Rabbi Shiff is one of five rabbis employed by an international Orthodox Jewish organization known as Aish HaTorah, which offers many services to regular people at its Upper West Side center, but offers some special attention to those whom its managing director, Rabbi Adam Jacobs, refers to as ''very significant people.''
 To participate in its Executive Learning Program, one makes a very significant contribution -- $10,000 a year, more or less -- and in return, a rabbi comes to one's corner office about once a week to offer Bible study, Talmudic exegesis, personal counseling or just an hour of intellectual jousting.
 Most participants are not particularly observant Jews, said Rabbi Jacobs, although he added that almost all have reached a stage of ''looking for the big-picture idea'' about life. Almost all are accustomed to personal trainers and personal services. In some cases, the incoming rabbi may meet the yoga instructor, out-going.
 ''I think of this as similar to my yoga class, only much, much more satisfying,'' said Gary Goldstein, the chief executive of the Whitney Group, an executive search firm in Midtown, where he recently saw another rabbi, Chaim Sampson.
 For reasons not altogether clear to him, Rabbi Jacobs said the number of participants doubled in the last year to around 50. He is trying to hire another rabbi.
 ''The economic situation is probably involved here somewhere,'' he said. ''People sometimes seek grounding when times get tough.'' 
 Some new sign-ups, in fact, are recently unemployed -- but still significantly affluent -- ''guys who suddenly have time on their hands,'' Rabbi Jacobs said. One rabbi has been traveling to Greenwich, Conn., to meet with a man he used to visit at an office at Bear Stearns, and who was laid off after the troubled firm was acquired by JPMorgan Chase this spring.
 But in most cases, the one-on-ones are sought by men -- very few women are among the program's clients -- who consider their Jewishness a work in progress.
 Some are not sure they believe in God. Most are believers, but not sure they want to be tied to the crowded calendar of observances that constitute observant Jewish religious life. Two of four men interviewed last month said their tutorials began not long after the death of their fathers. One said he became a participant soon after he married a ''very secular'' Jewish woman. All seemed interested in exploring the intersection of religious ethics and the aggressive pursuit of material success.
 They are mainly businessmen, good at running meetings, and in most cases quick to interrupt if a rabbi seems to be drifting off the point.
 ''So, now wait, how does this come back to what I was asking about in the first place?'' Mr. Goldstein asked at one point, several minutes into Rabbi Sampson's discussion of Tisha Bov, the day of fasting, usually in August, that commemorates several misfortunes, including the destruction of the first and second temples in Jerusalem, the first by the Babylonians, the second by the Romans. 
 On the coffee table between them, two books of the Torah sat atop a pile of magazines called Dealmaker, next to books with titles like ''King of Capital,'' ''Career Warfare'' and ''A Million a Minute.''
 ''Because we were talking about gossip, and baseless hatreds,'' said Rabbi Sampson. ''The Torah says the temple was destroyed because the Jewish people were involved in too much of such ---- ''
 ''Right. Gossip. The four categories of gossip,'' Mr. Goldstein said, regaining the thread. ''Too much negativity.''
 Michael Silverman, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Mount Sinai Medical Center, stopped Rabbi Shiff several times during his hour -- in Dr. Silverman's office off Fifth Avenue -- with a favorite expression of doubt.
 ''Speed bump! Real issue here,'' he said, signifying his concern with the logic or fairness of certain laws in the Talmud, like the one he called ''the father thing'' -- a rule allowing a man to nullify promises made by his wife or his daughter.
 As the rabbi gave a long and complicated answer, Mr. Silverman tapped absently on his desk, a space crowded with scientific journals and a brightly colored plastic model of the human brain.
 Rabbi Kenneth Brander, dean of the Center for the Jewish Future at Yeshiva University in New York, said the Aish program reflected a long tradition in Judaism of cooperation between the tribes of ancient Israel known as the Zebulun and the Issachar. ''The Zebulun, the tribe of the merchants and business people, provided financially for the tribe of the Issachar,'' the rabbis and Torah scholars, he said. It is not the first such program to accommodate the wealthiest, either. 
 ''We did classes at Goldman Sachs for years,'' said Rabbi Brad Hirshfield, president of the National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, adding that his program ended sometime in the early 1990s. ''I think there is no greater thing, as long as the participants don't look at the rabbi as another sort of personal trainer, another means of self-improvement.''
 Lionel Leventhal, a partner in the hedge fund Paul Capital Partners, bent over almost double peering into the Bible in his lap, trying to find the lines that his tutor, Rabbi Jacobs, was reciting in the busy lobby of a Midtown hotel the other night. They went there after finding all the seats taken in the Starbucks downstairs.
 Mr. Leventhal, who specializes in health care acquisitions, said, ''I guess what I don't understand -- what does it mean here where it's saying not to worry about food and shelter, because if you live a holy life it's all taken care of?''
 Rabbi Jacobs explained what the Torah says in this regard. He spoke for many minutes about what it all meant, his voice just audible in the din of the lobby. 
 Mr. Leventhal listened closely, his chin in his palm.
 ''That's a tough statement,'' he said when the rabbi finished. He did not seem to buy the notion of holy unemployment.
 ''In fact, it's a very complicated concept,''' said Rabbi Jacobs, launching an explication of ''the famous dialogue between two rebbes'' of ancient times who took opposite views on whether and how much one could mix work with a life of Torah study.
 Mr. Leventhal perked up, and resumed delving into the book on his lap, as if to learn quickly who won that argument. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Goldstein, left, who heads an executive search firm, meets and studies with Rabbi Chaim Sampson. ''I think of this as similar to my yoga class, only much, much more satisfying,'' Mr. Goldstein said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Rabbi Adam Jacobs, right, discusses ethical teachings of Judaism with a student, Lionel Leventhal, a partner at Paul Capital Partners, in the lobby of the Westin New York at Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); YOGA (60%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (53%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



148 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Listen to the 56,000

 BODY:
When the Federal Reserve asked for comments on its proposed rules on abusive credit card practices, an astonishing 56,000 poured in. Most were from outraged consumers. They told of interest rates skyrocketing when they paid an unrelated bill late. They complained of unwarranted late fees and pushed-up due dates. One Pennsylvania customer fumed: ''I'm fed up with credit card company tricks that drive us deeper in debt.'' 
 This anguished deluge should send a clear message to leaders in Washington. The Federal Reserve should swiftly adopt its proposed rules against unfair or deceptive credit card practices. But the real burden to curb these abuses falls on Congress.
 For too long, members of Congress have shirked the responsibility to ensure fair lending to credit card customers and have listened more intently to the banking lobbyists. A low point came in 2005, when Congress passed a bankruptcy law that was badly tilted against borrowers. It gave extra protections to lenders against unscrupulous debtors. But it also made it much harder for people to declare bankruptcy, even when the economic crisis was caused by sickness or family tragedy.
 Ronald Mann, a Columbia Law School professor, has argued that the law creates a ''sweat box of credit card debt.'' As borrowers become ''distressed,'' the credit card issuer has more time to pile on interest charges and fees until the client actually goes bankrupt. As heartless as that bankruptcy law has been for beleaguered consumers, the Democrats, who have controlled Congress since 2006, have not fixed it.
 They did take one step forward last week. By a 39-to-27 vote, the House Financial Services Committee approved a cardholders' bill of rights that was sponsored by Representative Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York. It would stop credit card companies from raising interest rates on balances incurred under an old rate. It would let consumers pay off loans with higher interest rates first. And it would stop unfair late fees and ''universal default,'' the practice of raising interest rates on accounts in good standing when a borrower falls behind on other bills. This borrowers' bill of rights should move quickly to the House floor, and Christopher Dodd, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, should support similar legislation in his chamber.
 The banks are openly fighting both the Maloney bill and the Federal Reserve rules. They warn of unintended consequences, mainly that less credit would be available to consumers. They also argue that most cardholders are happy and that the complaints are just ''anecdotal.''
 The huge file of comments at the Federal Reserve contains plenty of anecdotes, and there are surely many more where those came from. Congress should give consumers what they need and deserve -- fair and clear lending rules for credit cards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FAIR LENDING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (55%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



149 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: After Enacting Pension Cuts, Europe Weathers a Storm

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Social Security is known as the ''third rail'' of American politics, and fiddling with retirement benefits can prove politically fatal in Europe too. Yet, in recent months and years some Europeans have tried to defuse the time bomb posed by millions of retirees receiving government benefits. 
 Italy gradually raised the retirement age to 59. France increased the tenure requirement for government workers to receive full pension benefits to 40 years of service. Germany curtailed annual government pension increases and raised the retirement age by two years, to 67.
 But inflation and a squeeze on living standards for older workers are causing a backlash, leading some governments to reconsider -- or even suspend -- approved reforms. 
 The fears of European workers are not unwarranted. Forty percent of Belgians over 75, for instance, will live in poverty by 2016, according to the National Pensions Office in Brussels, in part because of lower pensions. 
 Such statistics are one reason that even maintaining recently enacted reforms is proving difficult. Another is Helmut Polzer. 
 In a fit of rage last August, Mr. Polzer, a retired real estate developer near Munich, wrote his first letter to the editor in 50 years of reading his local newspaper, complaining about German politicians turning pensioners into ''paupers.'' Almost as an afterthought, he suggested a solution.
 ''I would be happy if the millions of pensioners -- our numbers are growing -- and all citizens disadvantaged by politics finally found their way into their own political party,'' Mr. Polzer wrote to the newspaper, Munchner Merkur.
 Weeks later, Mr. Polzer, 70, was presiding over a meeting to create the Pensioner Party, which plans to field candidates in regional elections this fall on a platform of seeking a more generous pension system.
 While still a nascent operation, the Pensioner Party's message resonates broadly with voters in Germany and across Europe. With a higher birthrate and greater immigration, the United States faces a less acute problem with government pension benefits, despite periodic flare-ups over Social Security and fears about the long-term fiscal stability of the pension systems for many state and local government workers.
 Most of the costs of an aging American society have to do with skyrocketing health care costs -- far less of a problem in Europe. The widespread use of private pensions and employer-based savings plans in the United States also eases the pressure on taxpayers to pay retirement costs.
 But in much of Europe, the need for change is more pressing.
 State pension costs as a percentage of gross domestic product are edging steadily upward. In France, for example, they will reach 14.8 percent in 2050, from 13.3 percent today, according to the European Commission. That would put French pension costs on the high end of the European average. It would also be more than three times the portion of the United States economy devoted to federal retirement programs.
 A measure introduced in 2003 by Francois Fillon, then the French employment minister, now prime minister, required public sector workers to serve 40 years before getting a full pension. But the rule was riddled with exemptions for train operators, electricity and natural gas workers, and other groups.
 Most of those loopholes were closed last fall after those affected were promised higher pay to end a nine-day strike. Now Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, wants to extend the required working time to 41 years by 2012 for the entire French work force, though without raising the formal retirement age from 60, as employers have demanded. 
 Opinion polls show that a majority of French people back the 41-year rule, but are opposed to increasing the retirement age.
 Germany has gone further than France, probably because it is under more intense demographic pressure.
 More than 15 percent of the German population is now older than 65 -- about twice the proportion in France. In addition, during a long phase of high unemployment, German politicians were under pressure to reduce employer pension contributions in order to lower the cost of creating jobs.
 In 2004, Gerhard Schroder, then the chancellor, threatened to resign if parliament did not pass his pension package reducing annual increases with a formula that took into account demographic changes and tax incentives for private pension savings.
 Last year, it was the current government of Angela Merkel who raised Germany's official retirement age to 67 from 65. But with national elections coming up next year, the German parliament suspended the Schroder formula for one year. That had the effect of doubling the 2008 increase in pension payments to 1.1 percent -- hardly a windfall but clear evidence of the constant pressure politicians are under, even after new laws are passed. 
 ''They did a very good job of putting the system on a sensible financial track,'' said Monika Queisser, a pension expert at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. ''The problem now is the social sustainability of what Germany has adopted.''
 One factor that may offset the issue could be the surprising success some countries have had with the introduction of private pensions. 
 Sweden created a system in 1999 that siphoned off 2.5 percent of a worker's gross income and invested it in privately managed stock and bond funds. Employees choose the funds themselves, based on their appetite for risk. 
 Since then, countries including Bulgaria, Romania, Poland and all the Baltic states, as well as Germany, have adopted similar programs. (A proposal by President Bush to do much the same died at the beginning of his second term.) 
 Germany's system, using tax incentives to persuade people to save for their own retirement, got off to a slow start in 2001. But now some 11 million Germans have bought into it.
 Mr. Polzer, the founder of Germany's pensioners' party, is even campaigning in favor of extending it. Thomas Langer, a professor of business at the University of Munster who studies pensions, said, ''I have no doubt that in the last five years there has been a serious change in mentality in Europe.'' He added, ''it would have been nice if we had tackled it earlier though.''
 The question is whether broader changes can be put in place -- and made to stick -- before the demographic time bomb explodes. 
 Vincenzo Galasso is a professor at Bocconi University in Milan and co-author of ''Contro i Giovani'' (Against the Young), a popular book with a cover illustration that shows a Cronos-like monster devouring young people. 
 Italians are not eating their young, but they are, in Mr. Galasso's view, fleecing them. After agreeing to raise the retirement age to 60 by 2009, Italy put off the reform until 2017.
 The median age of Italian voters is around 46 years now, but will reach the late 50s by midcentury, Mr. Galasso points out. Unless the retirement age rises further -- and soon -- more Italians will have a vested interested in opposing change.
 ''We're on a continuum where reform becomes harder and harder,'' Mr. Galasso said. ''I hope that there is no point of no return.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Changes in public pension rules have caused outcries in Europe, in-cluding a demonstration in May on the streets of Marseille, France.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LAURENSON/REUTERS)
 In Bad Bramstedt, in northern Germany, a meeting of the local branch of the Pensioner Party.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER HARTUNG FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); AGING (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); OLDER WORKERS (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); REAL ESTATE (68%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



150 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Sirius Chief Undaunted By Challenge

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Mel Karmazin says he spent the past year of his life in constant fear that his dream deal -- the merger of Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Radio -- was about to unravel. 
 Now comes the fun part.
 A year and a half after announcing Sirius would buy XM to form a satellite radio giant, the deal was finally approved by regulators and completed last week. And while integrating mergers is a nightmare for most executives, Mr. Karmazin, chairman of the newly minted Sirius XM Radio, says he loves it. He has to slash some $400 million in annual costs and seems almost giddy at the prospect. 
 ''When I became the C.E.O. of CBS, the first thing I did was sell the artwork,'' he said with a smirk, referring to his tenure at Viacom before being ousted after a public battle with Sumner M. Redstone. For good measure, he left the walls bare to remind employees he was running a tight ship.
 Then, unsolicited, he added, ''You know, the movie I'm most proud of is 'Jackass.' It cost me $6 million and made $100 million.'' 
 Sirius employees do not need to be convinced of Mr. Karmazin's nerve or cheapness. But it is a bigger task to persuade investors that Sirius XM has a profitable future. Since Mr. Karmazin jubilantly announced the blockbuster deal 18 months ago, the market for satellite radio -- and the economy -- are in a very different state. 
 The company, which combined or uncombined has never turned a profit, was running out of money so quickly it was forced to add some $1.2 billion in debt onto its books, its shares have plummeted from $3.74 at the time they reached the proposed deal to $1.43, and the automobile market -- satellite radio's bread and butter since most units are factory installed -- is in free fall. In its second quarter, Sirius lost $24 million on $283 million in revenue. 
 And yet Mr. Karmazin, tanned and svelte, seems at ease. Last week, he was chattering away on the phone in his corner office, just one floor above his biggest star, the radio shock jock Howard Stern. 
 Slumped so far down in his chair he had almost turned it into a chaise lounge, Mr. Karmazin said he was on the line with ''an important customer'' who, it turned out, was Robert Wright, the former chairman of NBC, which provides several stations to Sirius, including the one Mr. Karmazin said is his favorite on the entire dial, CNBC.
 If Mr. Karmazin had his way, he would have already moved out of Sirius's fancy digs in Midtown Manhattan -- two floors of fully outfitted glass and steal radio studios for its roster of stars like Martha Stewart and Eminem in the tony McGraw-Hill building, including a specially built wing for Mr. Stern. When Mr. Karmazin first got the job at Sirius, he walked into the offices and said: ''Oh, my God. We have a lease here? Do we know we're losing money and this is radio?'' 
 The lease lasts for at least several more years, he says, ''so I have no Jewish guilt.'' When it is over, he suggested jokingly, they may have to move the company to Queens or New Jersey.
 The question still remains whether Mr. Karmazin can succeed beyond simply cost-cutting, which is likely to come from the companies enormous advertising budget and slashing duplicative jobs. Some analysts have been skeptical. Mark Wienkes an analyst at Goldman Sachs, says the combined company is a ''niche market opportunity'' with a ''mass market cost structure.'' He has a ''conviction sell rating'' on the stock. Likewise, Citigroup released a report last month suggesting that weakness among automobile makers ''is worrisome for near-term sub growth, offsetting some of the positives.''
 On top of that, Sirius still faces pressure from terrestrial radio, wireless broadband -- and yes, iPods. 
 Of course, whether those outlets posed a threat to satellite radio was the exact question that the Justice department and the Federal Communications Commission had to answer. When Echostar and DirectTV tried to merge in 2003, the deal was blocked on the grounds that it would create less competition. Mr. Karmazin, who testified in Washington four times in the process of seeking approval for his merger, said his ace-in-the hole was that many terrestrial radio stations came out against the Sirus-XM tie-up. 
 ''It was the best thing that happened,'' he said, explaining that it demonstrated that Sirus and XM did not just compete against themselves.
 Mr. Karmazin said he had wanted to do this deal from the day he was first recruited for the job by Leon D. Black, the billionaire financier who runs Apollo Management and is a board member of Sirius. In fact, when they first spoke, Mr. Black was pressing Mr. Karmazin to acquire a terrestrial radio company like Clear Channel Communications to help provide a steady stream of cash to help support the money-losing satellite business.
 Instead, Mr. Karmazin, who increased subscribers to 8.9 million from some 600,000, become convinced that he could get a Sirius-XM deal past regulators and that unlike terrestrial radio, with its legacy costs, he could make it a fast-growing company. 
 Holed up in his apartment in Trump Tower overlooking Central Park, he conducted a 24-hour marathon of negotiations to seal the deal -- in the process consulting James. B. Lee Jr., vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who shuttled between rooms in Mr. Karmazin's apartment. 
 Despite the sluggish economy, Mr. Karmazin said his product is so cheap, he cannot imagine it will be affected much. ''Forty-three cents a day -- it's not even vending machine coffee,'' he said. 
 When it comes to auto sales, he said he is still encouraged because the rate of consumers choosing to install Sirius is more than 50 percent and continuing a positive trend. He added that he built in ample wiggle room in his ''synergy'' number and seemed to suggest even greater savings than when he publicly announced the merger. ''We didn't feel like we're stretching,'' he said, noting, ''If you miss a number by a penny they kill you.'' 
 They, of course, are the shareholders and in Sirus's case, they are a vocal lot. Unlike most companies -- whose shareholder base is 80 percent big institutional investors and 20 percent personal, retail investors -- Sirus's shareholder base is turned upside-down. As a result, many of the radio network's fans and customers are also its owners. They fill chat rooms online and have made the stock a volatile one. ''A lot of them are unsophisticated, but they have a passion for the company,'' he said.
 His goal is turn the company into a profitable business, something he suggests is just a year or two away. ''Then we can argue about what the company is worth,'' he said, arguing that it is nearly impossible to properly value money losing business using traditional metrics. 
 And then again, Mr. Karmazin hinted he may try to sell Sirius-XM, like he has the ventures he has run before. ''I'm not a visionary; I'm an operator,'' he said. ''And I've been a seller. The bankers all want the next transaction.''
 Still, he recognizes that he has some work to do and his putting his money where his mouth is. He just bought two million shares at $1.37 a piece. But then again, he added, ''I bought 20 million shares of stock at an average of $5, so nobody wants to take investment advice from me.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mel Karmazin in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Sirius, despite a roster of satellite radio personalities that includes the provocative Howard Stern, has yet to turn a profit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (95%); MERGERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); APPROVALS (73%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (94%); XM SATELLITE RADIO HOLDINGS INC (58%); XM SATELLITE RADIO INC (58%); VIACOM INC (56%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (94%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (94%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (89%); SUMNER REDSTONE (59%); MARTHA STEWART (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



151 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Big Donors, Too, Have Seats At Obama Fund-Raising Table

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and CHRISTOPHER DREW; Griff Palmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In an effort to cast himself as independent of the influence of money on politics, Senator Barack Obama often highlights the campaign contributions of $200 or less that have amounted to fully half of the $340 million he has collected so far.
 But records show that one-third of his record-breaking haul has come from donations of $1,000 or more: a total of $112 million, more than Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's Republican rival, or Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, his opponent in the Democratic primaries, raised in contributions of that size. 
 Behind those larger donations is a phalanx of more than 500 Obama ''bundlers,'' fund-raisers who have each collected contributions totaling $50,000 or more. Many of the bundlers come from industries with critical interests in Washington. Nearly three dozen of the bundlers have raised more than $500,000 each, including more than a half-dozen who have passed the $1 million mark and one or two who have exceeded $2 million, according to interviews with fund-raisers. 
 While his campaign has cited its volume of small donations as a rationale for his decision to opt out of public financing for the general election, Mr. Obama has worked to build a network of big-dollar supporters from the time he began contemplating a run for the United States Senate. He tapped into well-connected people in Chicago prior to the 2004 Senate race, and once elected, set out across the country starting to cultivate some of his party's most influential money collectors.
 He courted them with the savvy of a veteran politician, through phone calls, meals and one-on-one meetings; he wrote thank-you cards and remembered birthdays; he sent them autographed copies of his book and doted on their children.
 The fruits of his efforts have put Mr. Obama's major donors on a pace that almost rivals the $147 million raised by President Bush's network of Pioneers and Rangers in contributions of $1,000 or larger during the 2004 primary season. 
 Given his decision not to accept public financing, Mr. Obama is counting on his bundlers to help him raise $300 million for his general-election campaign and another $180 million for the Democratic National Committee.
 An analysis of campaign finance records shows that about two-thirds of his bundlers are concentrated in four major industries: law, securities and investments, real estate and entertainment. Lawyers make up the largest group, numbering roughly 130, with many of them working for firms that also have lobbying arms. At least 100 Obama bundlers are top executives or brokers from investment businesses: nearly two dozen work for financial titans like Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs or Citigroup. About 40 others come from the real estate industry.
 The biggest fund-raisers include people like Julius Genachowski, a former senior official at the Federal Communications Commission and a technology executive who is new to political fund-raising; Robert Wolf, president and chief operating officer of UBS Investment Bank; James A. Torrey, a New York hedge-fund investor; and Charles H. Rivkin, chief executive of an animation studio in Los Angeles.
 ''It's fairly clear that this is being packaged as an extraordinary new kind of fund-raising, and the Internet is a new and powerful part of it,'' said Michael J. Malbin, executive director of the Campaign Finance Institute. ''But it's also clear that many of the old donors are still there and important.''
 The care and feeding that top Obama fund-raisers have received underscores their significance to his campaign. Members of his National Finance Committee who fulfill their commitment to raise at least $250,000 are being rewarded with trips to the Democratic National Convention in Denver.
 Finance committee members participate in conference calls with top campaign officials every other week. The fund-raisers meet quarterly, often with Mr. Obama dropping in. He lingered after the most recent meeting in June in Chicago, telling his staff he wanted to thank every person in the room. Some fund-raisers who knocked on doors for Mr. Obama in places like Indiana, Iowa and Pennsylvania got to spend time with Mr. Obama backstage before and after speeches on primary nights.
 His fund-raisers invariably say their support for him is not rooted in any kind of promise of access, but rather their belief in him.
 ''This is about Barack Obama and changing the direction of our country,'' said Jonathan B. Perdue, a business consultant in Mill Valley, Calif., who has raised more than $250,000 for Mr. Obama's campaign.
 Mr. Obama has pledged not to accept donations from lobbyists or political action committees registered with the federal government. But some top donors clearly have policy and political agendas. Hedge-fund executives, for example, have bundled large sums for Mr. Obama at a time when their industry has been looking to increase its clout in Washington.
 Kenneth C. Griffin, chief executive officer of Citadel Investment Group in Chicago, has collected more than $50,000 for Mr. Obama. But Mr. Griffin, whose $1.5 billion in income in 2007 made him one of the country's highest-paid hedge-fund executives, has given generously over the years to Republicans as well, and he recently helped to hold a fund-raiser for Mr. McCain. Citadel has spent more than $1.1 million, dating back to 2007, in lobbying against higher tax rates for hedge-fund gains. (Mr. Obama has supported the higher tax rates.) 
 Similarly, Paul Tudor Jones, a billionaire hedge-fund manager from Connecticut, has raised more than $100,000 for Mr. Obama. But he also gave to Mr. McCain, to Rudolph W. Giuliani and to Mitt Romney. Mr. Jones, who has given more than $900,000 over the last decade to federal candidates and political organizations, helped form a trade association that has fought hedge-fund regulation.
 Many fund-raisers sit on the campaign's array of policy working groups, getting a chance to weigh in on policy positions and speeches. Mr. Genachowski, a Harvard Law School classmate of Mr. Obama, leads the technology working group. Fund-raisers from private equity and hedge funds sit on Mr. Obama's economic policy group.
 Despite Mr. Obama's image as a newcomer, many of his bundlers are Democratic Party stalwarts, including people who were some of the top fund-raisers for Senator John Kerry in 2004. At least 58 of them appear to have personally made more than $100,000 in contributions to federal candidates and committees over the last decade. Updated bundler lists released recently by the McCain and Obama campaigns show that they have similar numbers of high-dollar fund-raisers.
 The Obama fund-raising operation is meticulously organized. Bundlers are assigned tracking numbers, and the finance staff sends them quarterly reminders of how they are doing in meeting their goals. 
 ''There's no price for admission,'' said Alan D. Solomont, a top Democratic fund-raiser in Boston who made his fortune in the nursing home industry and has given more than $1.5 million to Democratic candidates and causes. ''We value every donation and every donor equally. But we are a performance-based organization. We want everybody to feel like they're included, but at the same time we're not here to have tea together.''
 Mr. Obama began courting many of his fund-raisers soon after he burst upon the national scene with his rousing speech at the 2004 Democratic National Convention.
 Mr. Solomont, a major fund-raiser both for Mr. Kerry and for Bill Clinton during their presidential runs, received a call on his cellphone in February 2005, a year after Mr. Obama's election to the Senate, from a member of his staff who asked if he would like to get together with Mr. Obama.
 They met for Chinese food in Washington the following week, and Mr. Obama scored points with Mr. Solomont when he pointed out that they had both been community organizers earlier in their careers.
 ''I've been involved in politics a long time,'' Mr. Solomont said. ''Nobody's bothered to know that about me.''
 Early that same year, Mr. Obama attended a dinner in the Bay Area for about 20 major Kerry supporters. The dinner was organized by Mark Gorenberg, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who was Mr. Kerry's single biggest fund-raiser, after Mr. Obama's staff members contacted him. Several of those on hand, including Mr. Gorenberg and John Roos, head of a Silicon Valley law firm, became among the earliest and biggest check collectors for Mr. Obama's presidential bid.
 In 2006, Mr. Obama became a vice chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, giving him the opportunity to campaign across the country and to cultivate other potential benefactors. 
 When his book ''The Audacity of Hope'' came out later that year, his staff members organized book parties at the homes of major Democratic donors. 
 In December, Mr. Obama visited the New York office of the billionaire investor George Soros to court a roomful of high-powered Democratic fund-raisers, hoping to lure some of them away from Mrs. Clinton. Not everyone was swayed, but Mr. Obama won over Orin Kramer, a hedge-fund executive from New Jersey, and Mr. Wolf, the UBS executive, both of whom are now among Mr. Obama's biggest fund-raisers.
 Mr. Obama signed on as his finance director Julianna Smoot, who had led fund-raising for Senate Democrats and, before that, for Senator Tom Daschle when he was majority leader.
 With guidance from Ms. Smoot, a key part of the campaign's fast start was its success in scooping up top former Kerry fund-raisers, including Lou Susman, a Chicago investment banker who was Mr. Kerry's national finance chairman, and Kirk Wagar, a lawyer in Miami who became Mr. Obama's finance chairman in Florida. 
 Even so, the initial meeting of Mr. Obama's national finance committee, held in Chicago the day after he officially announced his candidacy, was a relatively small affair, numbering about 75 people.
 Penny Pritzker, the billionaire heiress to the Hyatt hotel fortune whom Mr. Obama asked to become his finance chairwoman, challenged the group to double in size.
 The number of bundlers ballooned quickly. The Obama campaign made important inroads among affluent people under age 45, including Silicon Valley engineers and hedge-fund analysts, many of whom had not been on the political radar screen. 
 Donations in June, the latest month for which Mr. Obama has disclosed his donors to the Federal Election Commission, illustrate the double-barreled nature of the campaign's fund-raising. Mr. Obama brought in nearly $31 million in contributions of less than $200, his best month for small donations. But he also collected more than $12 million in contributions of $1,000 or more, the most since the first half of 2007.
 The share from large contributions appears poised to increase, as Mr. Obama has stepped up his fund-raising schedule.
 ''In 2007, the campaign relied on the tried and true methods like fund-raisers, for both large- and small-dollar donors, with the candidate or his surrogates, and the Internet largely financed it in 2008,'' said Kirk Dornbush, the president of a biotech firm and a top fund-raiser in Atlanta. ''When you combine the traditional fund-raising methods with the continued online contributions, you have a very, very powerful fund-raising engine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Orin Kramer: Hedge-fund executive in New Jersey. Made about $1 million in political contributions over the past decade.
James A. Torrey New York investment-fund manager. Veteran fund-raiser for Senate Democrats. Prominent financial supporter of Howard Dean in 2004.
Robert Wolf: President of UBS Investment Bank. Fund-raiser for John Kerry's presidential race in 2004.
Alan D. Solomont: Health care investor in Boston. Former Democratic National Committee finance chairman. Made almost $1.3 million in political donations since 1997.
Jim Crown: Member of the billionaire Crown family. Major supporter with his wife, Paula, since Mr. Obama's 2004 Senate race.
John W. Rogers Jr.: Founder of Ariel Capital Management, a major black-owned investment firm.
Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe: Visiting scholar at Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation. Wife of John Donahoe, chief executive of eBay. Kerry fund-raiser.
Jeffrey Katzenberg: Chief executive of DreamWorks Animation. Made almost $1 million in political donations over the past decade.
Nicole Avant: Recording industry executive. Family has ties to the Clintons. Southern California finance co-chairwoman for Mr. Obama.
Christine Forester: Widow of architect and artist Russell Forester. Raised money for Mr. Dean and Mr. Kerry.
Charles H. Rivkin: Chief executive of Wild Brain, an animation studio. Kerry fund-raiser. Southern California finance co-chairman for Mr. Obama.
John Roos: Head of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a Silicon Valley law firm. Kerry fund-raiser. Northern California finance co-chairman for Mr. Obama.
Thomas J. Perrelli: Lawyer at Jenner & Block. Registered lobbyist as recently as 2005. Former deputy assistant attorney general under President Bill Clinton.
William E. Kennard: Managing director at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. Former chairman of Federal Communications Commission under President Clinton.
Julius Genachowski: Technology investor. Mr. Obama's classmate at Harvard Law School.
Don Beyer: Former lieutenant governor of Virginia. Owner of chain of car dealerships.(pg. A16) CHART: Top Obama Fund-Raisers: Senator Barack Obama has built a nationwide network of top fund-raisers, ranging from some of the Democratic Party's biggest longtime supporters to his friends from Chicago and Harvard Law School. These fund-raisers are among the 35 who have raised more than $500,000 for Mr. Obama's presidential campaign
some of them have collected more than $1 million for him.(Sources: Federal Election Commission
 Obama campaign)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN DONAHOE (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); LESTER CROWN (60%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



152 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: McCain at Nuclear Plant Highlights Energy Issue

BYLINE: By MARY ANN GIORDANO and LARRY ROHTER; Matthew Wald contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: NEWPORT, Mich. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain toured a nuclear power plant in Michigan on Tuesday to highlight his support for the construction of 45 new nuclear power generators by 2030, a position that he said distinguished him from his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama.
 Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, portrayed his support of nuclear energy as part of an ''all-of-the-above approach'' to addressing the nation's energy needs at a time of $4-a-gallon gasoline. He called it ''safe, efficient, inexpensive and obviously a vital ingredient in the future of the economy of our nation and in our mission to eliminate over time our dependence on foreign oil.'' 
 ''If we really want to enable new technologies tomorrow like plug-in electric cars, we need electricity to plug into,'' he said in a statement after touring the Fermi 2 nuclear plant, its twin cooling towers spewing vapors used as a backdrop. ''We need to do all this and more.''
 Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama see expanded use of nuclear energy as a way to reduce dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels, although Mr. Obama has cautioned that the government must first consider issues like the disposal of nuclear waste and the security of nuclear materials. 
 Even before Mr. McCain left South Dakota, where he campaigned at the freewheeling Sturgis Motorcycle Rally on Monday night, and headed to the plant in Michigan, Mr. Obama's campaign had put out a statement rebuffing what it called Mr. McCain's misrepresentation of Mr. Obama's position on nuclear power.
 ''Barack Obama supports safe and secure nuclear energy,'' Bill Burton, a campaign spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. ''Nuclear power represents more than 70 percent of our noncarbon generated electricity. It is unlikely that we can meet our aggressive climate goals if we eliminate nuclear power as an option. However, before an expansion of nuclear power is considered, Obama thinks key issues must be addressed including: security of nuclear fuel and waste, waste storage, and proliferation.''
 Those concerns, as well as the near meltdown at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania in 1979, and the ability to generate electricity cheaply in other ways, left the nuclear reactor construction business moribund for decades. More than 100 reactor orders were canceled in the 1970s, including all those ordered after 1973, and billions of dollars of work was abandoned.
 But market conditions have improved as demand for power has risen and the price of natural gas, a competing fuel, has jumped. Lately some environmental groups that had been critical of nuclear power have embraced it, seeing the technology as a way to meet the nation's growing energy demands without contributing more heat-trapping gases.
 In addressing the nation's energy demands, Mr. Obama has focused on alternative energy sources like wind and solar, as well as conservation, which would apparently also be the main beneficiaries of the decade-long $150 billion government investment effort he promises if elected. He barely mentions nuclear power, usually just alluding to it in a sentence here or there. 
 ''I think we do have to look at nuclear,'' he said in an interview this spring on ''Meet the Press,'' ''and what we've got to figure out is can we store the material properly? Can we make sure that they're secure? Can we deal with the expense?''
 In his appearance at the nuclear plant, Mr. McCain expressed none of those doubts or concerns, asserting in his statement that the construction of the 45 new nuclear power plants by 2030 would create 700,000 jobs, a figure that many experts find to be inflated. He also said his experience serving on the nuclear-fueled aircraft carrier Enterprise had convinced him of the safety of nuclear power. 
 Mr. McCain took no questions and limited his appearance to his statement and a tour of the plant with a single reporter and a photographer, part of a recent campaign strategy to limit his availability to the news media.
 During the tour, while standing in the center of the plant's control room, surrounded by elaborate panels and consoles crammed with switches and green and red lights, he asked several questions related to the plant's safety. ''What would give you great cause for concern?'' he asked Phillip Skarbek, the shift manager, and Anthony F. Earley Jr., the chief executive of DTE Energy, the owner of the plant, who conducted the tour.
 The plant has had a troubled history, with its original generating station, Fermi 1, which opened in 1957, suffering a partial fuel meltdown on Oct. 5, 1966. No outside contamination occurred, but Fermi 1 was taken off line in 1972 and decommissioned in 1975.
 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission says it expects to receive applications by the end of 2010 to build 34 nuclear plants, although only a handful are likely to be finished in the next decade. If demand for electricity continues to rise, as seems likely, it will be hard for the industry to maintain market share, much less displace the main carbon dioxide emitters, plants that burn coal.
 To try to jump-start the nuclear construction business, Congress in 2005 gave the industry three incentives. It provided loan guarantees of up to $18.5 billion, which would cover up to 80 percent of the value of a new reactor; it offered financial credits for producing electricity; and it offered a form of insurance to compensate for regulatory delays. 
 Still, the so-called nuclear renaissance is moving slowly. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed by President Bush on Aug. 8 of that year and has yet to produce a plant order.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Phillip Skarbek, a Fermi 2 plant manager
Anthony F. Earley Jr., chief executive of DTE Energy
Senator John McCain
Senator Lindsey Graham
 and Representative Fred Upton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (54%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANTHONY EARLEY (59%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); FRED UPTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



153 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Sales Stall for Whole Foods, And Its Profit Drops 30%

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Whole Foods Market on Tuesday announced that it would suspend its quarterly dividend and curb its expansion plans because a weak economy had significantly slowed sales growth at its stores. 
 Profit at the chain, based in Austin, Tex., declined 30 percent in the third quarter, ended July 6, compared with the quarter a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year increased 2.6 percent, paltry growth for a chain that has routinely posted double-digit increases. The average growth in sales at stores open at least a year was 10.9 percent from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2007.
 The chief executive and co-founder, John P. Mackey, also predicted a weak outlook for fiscal 2009, with sales growth of 6 to 10 percent, including newly opened stores, and same-store sales growth of 1 to 5 percent.
 ''We're going through a tough time here,'' Mr. Mackey said in a conference call with Wall Street analysts. ''I've never seen our comps this low in the 30 years I've been with the company.''
 Shares of Whole Foods, which had already dropped 44 percent since the first of the year, dropped nearly 18 percent in after-hours trading, to $18.84. 
 Because of the slowing sales, Mr. Mackey announced that the company would reduce the number of stores it plans to open in fiscal 2009 to 15, instead of 25 or 30. He also said the company would aggressively cut administrative costs and discretionary capital expenses not related to store openings.
 The company's weak report comes amid a difficult time in the supermarket industry, one in which consumers are trading down to cheaper products and discount stores.
 Whole Foods is trying to recast its upscale image by offering more store label products, which are cheaper, and more sales, not only among grocery items in the center of the store but also in the produce, seafood, meat and prepared foods sections on the perimeter of the store where the company makes most of its money.
 Whole Foods reported net income of $33.9 million, or 24 cents a share for the quarter, compared with $49.1 million, or 35 cents a share in the earlier period. Sales were $1.84 billion.
 In discussing the results, Mr. Mackey speculated that high gas prices have reduced the number of trips that shoppers make to Whole Foods, which he said attracts consumers from a wider geographic range than most grocery stores. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The fish counter at the Whole Foods store in Edgewater, N.J. Whole Foods is slowing its expansion plans as growth falters.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (84%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN P MACKEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008



154 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 6, 2008

 BODY:
International
USING DECREE AUTHORITY,
Chavez Expands His Powers
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela used decree powers that were set to expire to enact a set of measures that seem based on a package of constitutional changes that voters rejected last year. His actions significantly increase his power and are likely to open a new stage of confrontation between his government and the political opposition. PAGE A14
WOMAN DENIED BAIL IN BOMB PLOT
Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist who American officials say was a facilitator for Al Qaeda, was ordered held without bail in a federal court in Manhattan on charges that she tried to kill American soldiers and F.B.I. agents in Afghanistan. A criminal complaint says Ms. Siddiqui was found loitering outside an Afghan police station with documents describing explosives and other suspicious items in her handbag. PAGE A12 
QUIET DAY AFTER A DEADLY ATTACK
A day after an attack on security forces killed 16 people in Kashgar, things seemed back to normal in the frontier town in China's Xinjiang Province. Whatever led to the attack -- officials said it was carried out by members of East Turkestan Independence Movement, or ETIM -- it raised questions about the viability of Chinese policy in Xinjiang, even as China promotes an image of a ''harmonious society'' for the Olympics. PAGE A6
FOR SOME, OLYMPICS IS NO FUN
While there's plenty of excitement surrounding the Olympics, there's also a good deal of grumbling. Traffic restrictions have forced drivers to give up their cars, security measures require subway riders to undergo bag searches, and some of the city's best-known clubs have been forced to go dark. All the new rules and restrictions have put an unmistakable dent in Beijing's zeal for the Games. PAGE A8
BURMESE EXILES TO ASK FOR U.S. AID
A small group of Burmese exiles is scheduled to meet in Bangkok with President Bush, who has given his backing to what has so far been an unsuccessful struggle for democracy in Myanmar. Mr. Bush has tightened economic restrictions on Myanmar after the violent suppression of a peaceful uprising. But some dissidents say the restrictions, along with harsh criticism of the junta, have added to a wall of hostility between the nations that limits Washington's influence. PAGE A10
BEHAVIOR AND THE AIDS FIGHT
AIDS experts say millions of people are becoming infected because world governments are overlooking studies showing that behavior modification can be effective in preventing the spread of the disease. PAGE A10
National
F.B.I., FACING CRITICISM,
To Call Anthrax Case Closed
The Justice Department is preparing to declare the 2001 anthrax case solved and to make its case publicly against Bruce Ivins, a military scientist who killed himself after investigators linked him to the attacks. Officials at the F.B.I. are particularly eager to close the case and publicly rebut accusations of Mr. Ivins's defenders, who say that the bureau may have hounded an innocent man into committing suicide. PAGE A19
STRUGGLE OVER ATLANTA TREES
Atlantans are proud of their trees, so much so that builders must pay hundreds of dollars for any tree they uproot, even with the city's permission. So when Tom Coffin, the city's senior arborist and a vigilant defender of trees, was fired last week without explanation, residents began asking the mayor's office to investigate whether Mr. Coffin's dismissal resulted from his stern treatment of area developers. PAGE A15
FUROR OVER CHANGE IN HOLIDAY
The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union decided to substitute a Muslim holiday for Labor Day as one of the paid holidays at the Tyson Foods poultry plant in Shelbyville, Tenn. But that move has been met with outrage, with some anti-immigrant bloggers and right-wing commentators urging a boycott. PAGE A20
DASHING HOPES OF MARTIAN LIFE
Rumors swirled over the weekend that NASA had informed the White House of a major discovery bearing on the possibility of life on Mars. But Tuesday, NASA called a hasty telephone news conference to announce the tentative identification of a class of minerals that has nothing directly to do with the habitability of Mars. ''We are here today to announce a non-announcement,'' a NASA scientist said. PAGE A20
BAWDINESS, AND A BIG DEAL
When Senator John McCain offered up his wife to compete in the Miss Buffalo Chip contest in Sturgis, S.D. -- he probably did not know, as an ESPN writer points out, that the contest often ends in the toplessness of its contestants. And in a first, MySpace, the social networking site, has signed a deal to provide real-time video streaming of the three coming presidential debates and the debate between their vice-presidential picks. The Caucus. PAGE A17
REVISITING NUCLEAR ENERGY
Both Senators John McCain and Barack Obama see expanded use of nuclear energy as one way to lessen dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels. Construction in the industry has been moribund since the 1970s, but market conditions have improved for the industry as demand for power has risen, and the price of natural gas, a competing fuel, has jumped. And lately some environmentalists who had been critical of nuclear power have embraced it. PAGE A16
METRO
SILVER MADE PERSONAL LOANS
To Financing Company
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the most powerful defender of trial lawyers in the Legislature, has in the past year lent at least $50,000 of his own money to a company that helps finance small law firms that specialize in personal injury lawsuits. Mr. Silver made two separate loans to the company, Counsel Financial, according to his latest ethics disclosure form. PAGE B1
FOR A PRAYER ON-THE-GO
For the busy businessman with a personal trainer, personal shopper and an on-call psychiatrist, there is now another select service: the personal rabbi. An Upper West Side group called Aish offers four Orthodox rabbis who are available -- for a mere $10,000 a year -- to, your schedule permitting, guide you in studying the Talmud and sorting out any spiritual issues. PAGE B1
BUSINESS
ELEVEN ARE CHARGED IN THEFT
Of 40 Million Card Numbers
The Justice Department said that it had charged 11 people in the theft of more than 40 million credit and debit card numbers of customers shopping at major retailers, including TJX Companies, in one of the largest reported identity-theft incidents on record. PAGE C3
FALLOUT OF PENSION CUTS IN EUROPE
Some Europeans have tried to defuse the time bomb posed by their millions of retirees receiving government benefits. Italy gradually raised the retirement age to 59, for instance, and France increased the tenure requirement for government workers to 40 years of service. But inflation and a squeeze on living standards for older workers are fueling a backlash, leading governments to reconsider reforms. PAGE C1
SONY-BERTELSMANN VENTURE ENDS
Sony and Bertelsmann said they would unravel their four-year partnership in music. Behind the deal are divergent views of the future of recorded music. For Sony, it represents a gamble that after technology-driven upheaval, the industry will regain its footing. For Bertelsmann, the deal represents a retrenchment from traditional media to build up its service businesses. PAGE C5 GOVERNMENT NETWORKS HACKED
A cyber-criminal gang is using software tools normally reserved for computer network administrators to infect thousands of computers in corporate and government networks with programs that steal passwords and other personal information, a security researcher has found. The systematic use of administrative software to spread malicious software has not been seen widely until now, security experts said. PAGE C6
Arts
TAGGING ALONG FOR 11 YEARS
With the Godmother of Punk
Patti Smith was born in 1946, wrote poetry, made rock 'n' roll history, and changed the world, or part of it anyway. And while Manohla Dargis writes that ''Dream of Life,'' a new film about the life of the punk giant, glosses over a lot of specifics, the portrait of Ms. Smith, created over 11 years, ''feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion.'' PAGE E1
A MARRIAGE OF DANCE AND AFROBEAT
Fela Kuti, a political gadfly whose Afrobeat rhythms coaxed many feet to the dance floor, may be a perfect subject for Bill T. Jones, the political lion of modern dance, and his new Off Broadway musical, ''Fela!,'' which opens in September. ''There's something about the man that calls out for a very poetic treatment,'' Mr. Jones said. ''His life is so mythic in its scale.'' PAGE E1
MAGICAL PANTS, STILL TRAVELING
In the three years between the ''Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants'' and its sequel, the balance of celebrity power has shifted among its quartet of stars. In 2005, Amber Tamblyn and Alexis Bledel were riding high from the series ''Joan of Arcadia'' and ''Gilmore Girls.'' Because of ''Ugly Betty'' and ''Gossip Girl,'' America Ferrera and Blake Lively have pulled ahead. So, will the young ladies find romance and affirmation? As sure as patched jeans are magical. A review by Stephen Holden. PAGE E7
Dining
IN LOOKING FOR THE GREENMARKET,
Grab a Cart and Check Aisle 6
Local produce and farmers' markets have risen in popularity, and supermarkets are starting to catch on. But they have learned that stocking some local fruits and vegetables is not going to be enough. Now local farms are starting to supply the bulk for many supermarkets, especially now that freight and fuel costs have risen past the cost of the cargo. Page F1
DUMPLINGS, PLEASE. HOLD THE DECOR.
Those involved with the restaurant business in New York City are legion, to say the least: architects, investors, chefs and consultants. The whole process can seem a little daunting and perhaps overthought, but then there are places like Eton, in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. Its simple menu offers a few types of dumplings and Hawaiian shaved ice, such as green tea topped with red beans, lychees and condensed milk, pictured above. If they lack in visual appeal, they more than make up for it in taste. Page F7
Sports
LIKE SANDS THROUGH THE HOURGLASS,
Just Another Day at Packers Camp
Brett Favre climbed into his burgundy Cadillac Escalade and left without comment 30 minutes before the Green Bay Packers were set to begin practice. Huh? It seems the soap opera surrounding Favre's retirement and subsequent unretirement continues, with the quarterback asking the Packers to trade him -- to a team in the Packers' division, no less. Stay tuned. PAGE D1
CAUTION, OR BAD MANNERS?
China's problems with air pollution have been well documented, and much ink has been spilled trying to gauge how much air quality would affect Olympic athletes. Four United States track cyclists, apparently erring on the side of caution, emerged from their plane wearing masks over their mouths and noses -- drawing considerable attention and criticism from United States Olympic officials, who thought it might embarrass the host nation. The masks, though, were also distributed by United States Olympic officials. PAGE D1
POSSIBLE SHOWDOWN OF CHAMPIONS
Curlin, the reigning horse of the year, will forgo a turf campaign and the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris, his owner Jess Jackson said. Instead, Curlin will make his next start on the dirt in the Woodward on Aug. 30 at Saratoga in New York. Jackson also left open the possibility that Curlin would compete this year in the Breeders' Cup Classic on Oct. 25 at Santa Anita in California and next year as a 5-year-old. The Classic appears to be the most likely spot for a showdown between Curlin and Big Brown, as Big Brown's ownership group has already committed to the $5 million Classic race. PAGE D6
Obituaries
LOU TEICHER, 83
The classically trained pianist was something of a prodigy, and as part of the piano duo Ferrante & Teicher, was one of ''the grand twins of the twin grands.'' Their florid and sentimental versions of movie themes and love songs made them gods of easy listening. ''Although we were two individuals, at the twin pianos our brains worked as one,'' Arthur Ferrante said. PAGE B7
NICOLA RESCIGNO, 92
He seized advantage of a new interest in opera after World War II and helped found two major American opera companies, including one in Dallas. ''People think this is cowboy country,'' he once said. ''They are surprised to find first-rate opera in a corral.'' The other company was in Chicago. PAGE B7
Editorial
LISTEN TO THE 56,000
When the Federal Reserve asked for comments about its proposed rules on abusive credit card practices, an astonishing 56,000 poured in. Most were from outraged consumers. Page A22
OLD MINES, NEW DANGERS
The inspector general of the Interior Department, Earl Devaney, says the National Park Service has ''put the public's health and safety at risk'' by failing to clean up or seal off abandoned mines. Page A22
CLEANING UP
Connecticut, which became known as ''Corrupticut'' after recent scandals, can only benefit from its new public campaign-financing system. Page A22
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
A lesson in Climate-Speak while experiencing the awesome majesty of Greenland's Kangia Glacier. Page A23
CHINA'S GOLD RUSH
In an Op-Ed article, Matthew Forney, an American journalist living in Beijing, writes that under a plan by Chinese officials to match or surpass the American Olympic gold medal total, the country's athletes perform best in sports that few Chinese care about. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (A2)
 PHOTOS (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); BAIL (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ANTHRAX (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTHWEST CHINA (90%); XINJIANG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) MYANMAR (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



155 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
The Frugal Traveler in Amsterdam
 After almost three months on the road, the Frugal Traveler, Matt Gross, craved a low-key weekend in Amsterdam, left, for week 12 of his European Grand Tour. ''Frugal relaxation in one of the most pleasant cities in the world -- that would be the ticket,'' he said. 
 The blog also includes a video of the curiously divided border towns of Baarle-Nassau and Baarle-Hertog.
 nytimes.com/frugaltraveler
 Baghdad Bureau Culture Shock in America
 An Iraqi reporter describes the difficulties of adjusting to life in America while trying to forget about the violence he lived through during the last five years in Iraq.
 nytimes.com/baghdadbureau
 SLIDESHOW: POLITICAL BRIC-A-BRAC
 And Memorabilia Galore
 Hundreds gather in Las Vegas for the American Political Items Collectors National Convention, where collectors study and sell political memorabilia, including buttons.
 nytimes.com/national
 DealBook Pop Goes Mr. Bubble 
 The struggling economy has claimed the maker of Mr. Bubble, the soapy brew that has enlivened many a child's bath time.
 nytimes.com/dealbook
 TIMES TOPICS Identity Theft 
 A computer forensics expert discusses details of the Justice Department's indictments of 11 men accused of stealing more than 40 million credit and debit-card numbers. Also, complete coverage of identity theft and online resources.
 nytimes.com/topics
 I'M STRONG TO THE FINISH
 'Cause I Eat My ... Beets?
 Could beets be the new spinach? It's easy to love fresh beets, Martha Rose Shulman writes, and not just for their nutritional advantages. They have a hard-to-define flavor, one reason they appear on high-end restaurant menus. But they're perfect at home, too.
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 AUDIO: TECH TALK
 Video games as teaching tools, a look at the tech term MMOG (hint: it involves gaming) and Times Scholars talking about growing up in a digital world.
 nytimes.com/techtalk
 SLIDESHOW: AN OPERA COMPANY IS (ALMOST) BORN 
 A look at how one opera troupe, through an informal production of Monteverdi's ''L'Incoronazione di Poppea,'' hopes to turn itself into a full-fledged company. Images, interviews and audio from the production. 
 nytimes.com/music
 Opinion
 Timothy Egan Nanny Nation
 At a time when so many Americans are struggling to keep their jobs and homes, do we really need governments in our major cities enforcing public virtue?
 nytimes.com/egan

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT GROSS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IDENTITY THEFT (90%); OPERA (85%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); COMPUTER CRIME (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); INDICTMENTS (66%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); NUTRITION (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%); LARCENY & THEFT (52%); FORENSICS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



156 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Niche Farming Offers Way Back to the Land

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
STARTING a small farm can pay rich dividends, especially if the farm produces niche foods like artisanal cheeses or truffles. But don't quit your day job.
 Sarah Beth Aubrey took that advice several years ago, after, she says, she ''got sick of driving to work.'' She succumbed to an entrepreneurial itch by founding Aubrey's Natural Meats, a 31-acre farm in Elwood, Ind., where she and her husband, Cary, raise cattle and pigs.
 Ms. Aubrey, 33, who grew up on a farm in Illinois and was crowned the first runner-up National Polled Hereford Queen at the age of 20, earned a bachelor's degree in agricultural communications and then worked at an Indianapolis agribusiness consulting firm and a financial planner.
 But the frustration of working for somebody else ''was like water dripping down a cave wall,'' she said, adding: ''You can hear it. Then it's a puddle, and suddenly you're ankle deep in it.'' 
 She started her meat venture in the fall of 2003, with her husband, who also grew up raising cattle, as minority partner. The business is thriving, though it doesn't pay the bills. But Mr. Aubrey has kept his state job as an agricultural specialist, and she has leveraged her farm expertise into consulting work and books, including ''Starting & Running Your Own Small Farm Business.'' 
 Her No. 1 recommendation to people thinking about getting into farming is to ''wean yourself slowly off outside income.'' From that follows No. 2: Create a contingency fund.
 Lana Holmes, who played on her extended family's cattle ranches in Texas as a girl and worked on farms in her college years, has also chosen to earn a regular paycheck as she gets her farm up and running. 
 Ms. Holmes, 54, and her partner Ann Vowels, 51, bought 110 acres on a mountainside in Anderson Valley, about 100 miles north of San Francisco, 10 years ago with the idea of producing something besides grapes, the ''monoculture of the area.'' 
 They first took two years off to build a barn-style home, with a friend's help. Then, in 2005, they decided to try growing truffles.
 Traditionally, truffles -- fungi that grow alongside tree roots -- have been collected in the wild with the help of scent-detecting swine or dogs, and command prices as high as $2,700 a pound, although most sell for far less.
 In doing her horticultural research, Ms. Vowels found a magazine article about Australians and New Zealanders who were growing the tubers by inoculating the roots of hazelnut and oak trees with their spores. This sort of commercial production is thriving in France, Spain and Croatia, but is just getting started in the United States.
 Ms. Vowels was taken with the idea of growing a staple of haute cuisine, Ms. Holmes said, while she herself, a ''money-driven'' pragmatist, ''was excited about the potential returns.''
 It will probably be four to six years until the crop matures (if it doesn't fail), Ms. Holmes said. But, she said, both she and Ms. Vowels can afford to be patient. 
 The founder of three start-ups as well as a consultant and executive coach, Ms. Holmes recently took the post of chief operating officer of OmDirect, a San Francisco-based Web portal for producers and buyers of organic food. Ms. Vowels is a corporate trainer and executive coach.
 Though it has been three years since they planted 200 saplings inoculated with the spores of black truffles on a one-acre plot, they understand that it takes time. ''All this is very new,'' Ms. Holmes said. ''But even if it takes us eight years, so what? It's about doing something unique and producing something we love.'' 
 Ms. Aubrey and Ms. Holmes are apparently onto something. In one measure of the growth in smaller farms (though it does not include ''all natural'' operations like Ms. Aubrey's), the number of organic farms in the United States more than doubled from 1992 to 2005, to 8,500 from 3,600, and the land under their cultivation more than quadrupled, to 4.1 million acres from 935,000 acres, according to the Agriculture Department's Economic Research Service.
 ''Organic farming has become one of the fast-growing segments of U.S. agriculture,'' the service said in a recent report.
 Another Research Service study indicated that despite the consolidation of American agriculture, tiny farms were holding their own. The number of farms with annual sales of more than $250,000 in inflation-adjusted dollars nearly doubled to 152,000 in 2002 from 85,000 in 1982, the survey showed. 
 While midsize and small farms, with revenue ranging from $10,000 to $250,000, declined, operations with sales of less than $10,000 jumped 14 percent over those years, to 2.5 million, from 2.2 million. The reports authors cautioned, though, that technical changes in its methodology exaggerated the increase. 
 Robert Hoppe, an Agriculture Department researcher, recommended the slow and steady approach being taken by Ms. Aubrey and Ms. Holmes. This could be a good time for entrepreneurs to start a farm, Mr. Hoppe said, ''particularly if they have other sources of income.''
 Ms. Aubrey says a convergence of several trends explains the allure of small farms. For starters, she says, the consolidation of the agricultural industry in the 1970s and '80s displaced a lot of people, now in their 30s and 40s, who are being drawn back to the land. 
 More generally, she says, Americans share a longing for their pastoral past. ''People have gotten so far from their agricultural roots, and now they are rediscovering them,'' she said. ''You can see the emotions on their faces when the talk about their herb gardens and their vegetable gardens and about putting up the hay.''
 Moreover, as organic farming, farmers' markets and cooperatives have gained in popularity, and food scares have been the stuff of headlines, many consumers are paying more attention to their food, ''what's in it, where it's produced,'' she said.
 For entrepreneurs tempted by the rural life, Ms. Aubrey and Ms. Holmes offer these bits of advice:
 Do market research. Go to farmers' markets. See what products are common and which ones are missing. Talk to people. Ask if they would buy your product.
 Check out the local labor pool to make sure enough workers are available.
 Get the advice of an accountant and a lawyer.
 Decide early on whether to go into the wholesale or retail market. 
 Ask yourself whether you will be able to adapt to the lifestyle, notably long hours of hard toil. If you doubt you will enjoy bending over crops under a hot sun, find another line of work.
 Do not make the common mistake of growing too big too fast. You will risk discovering you do not have the cash flow to buy the equipment that you need to meet the orders.
 Choose a ''value added'' niche product, like gourmet mushrooms, that is not sold widely in your area.
 ''Make sure they're unique enough for people to buy them and eat them,'' Ms. Aubrey said. ''If it's unusual and tastes good, people will buy it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The In the Hunt column on Thursday, about entrepreneurial farming, rendered incorrectly the name of the San Francisco Web portal whose chief operating officer, Lana Holmes, has started a truffle farm. It is Om Direct, not OmDirect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lana Holmes, left, and Ann Vowels have planted 200 saplings inoculated with the spores of black truffles in Northern California.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Sara Beth Aubrey started a business, Aubrey's Natural Meats, with her husband in Elwood, Ind.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AJ MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CHEESE (78%); HORTICULTURE (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MEATS (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (73%); WILDLIFE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CROATIA (74%); SPAIN (69%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



157 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Race Takes Central Role In a Memphis Primary

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

 BODY:
In the culmination of a racially fraught Congressional campaign in Memphis, a black candidate is linking her liberal-leaning white primary opponent in Thursday's contest, Representative Steve Cohen, to the Ku Klux Klan in a television advertisement.
 Mr. Cohen's campaign said it was an unusually direct effort to inject race into the contest. 
 The advertisement for the challenger, Nikki Tinker, juxtaposes Mr. Cohen's picture with that of a hooded Klansman, and criticizes Mr. Cohen for voting against renaming a park in Memphis currently named for the Confederate general Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Ku Klux Klan founder. 
 ''This makes you wonder,'' a black former county commissioner, Walter Bailey, says in the advertisement. ''Who is the real Steve Cohen?''
 The brief television spot has provoked an uproar in the already heated primary campaign, with supporters of Mr. Cohen -- known for his support of civil rights measures in a long career in the Tennessee legislature -- saying it crossed the line. 
 Though the city's newspaper, The Memphis Commercial Appeal, denounced the advertisement as a ''smear,'' the campaign of Ms. Tinker, a corporate lawyer, defended it as legitimate. On Saturday, several prominent black leaders in Memphis, including ministers, officials and activists, held a news conference to speak out against the advertisement. 
 The commercial comes against a backdrop of lingering resentment by some black ministers in Memphis at Mr. Cohen's election in 2006. Several have been outspoken in the view that a district that is 60 percent black should not be represented by a white man; Mr. Cohen, who is Jewish, was the object of boos and jeers at a meeting of the Memphis Baptist Ministerial Association last summer. 
 Anti-Semitic fliers -- ''Why do Steve Cohen and the Jews Hate Jesus?'' one asked -- written by an African-American minister from outside the district have also been circulating in Memphis. 
 Mr. Cohen, 59, won election in 2006 with just over 30 percent of the vote when the top four black candidates, including Ms. Tinker, split the black vote. Since then, he has earned a reputation as a loquacious, media-friendly liberal, outspoken in his opposition to the Iraq war, aggressive in questioning Bush administration officials on the House Judiciary Committee and assiduous in efforts to cultivate his majority-black constituency, including initiatives to rename federal buildings in Memphis after African-Americans. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has called him the ''conscience of the freshman class.'' Recently, the House of Representatives passed a resolution sponsored by Mr. Cohen apologizing for slavery. 
 In an interview, Mr. Cohen acknowledged his role in the controversy over the park in 2005 when he was on a downtown development board, which included proposals to remove a statue of Forrest and his remains, which are buried in the park. Mr. Cohen opposed the renaming, and the proposals to rename that park and others fizzled, having failed to garner support even from some high-level black officials. 
 ''I am a fan of the community not getting unraveled over the removal of a pair of bodies,'' Mr. Cohen explained this week. 
 He called the advertisement linking him to the Klan ''about as improper as one could ever fathom.'' He added. ''It's not like Nathan Bedford Forrest was inviting Jews over to celebrate Seder.'' 
 Referring to Ms. Tinker, Mr. Cohen said: ''She's trying to drive black votes to her side and to make this a rallying point for African-Americans. I think it's totally backfired.'' 
 Ms. Tinker did not respond to phone messages. A campaign aide, Glenn Rushing, said in a brief interview: ''The ad does not link him to the Ku Klux Klan. It makes it clear he voted against removal of the statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest.''
 Myron Lowery, vice chairman of the Memphis City Council and one of Mr. Cohen's black supporters, called the advertisement irresponsible. 
 ''Mr. Cohen does not have those values,'' Mr. Lowery said. ''His values have been rooted in this community, for diversity and respect for individual rights. This man's record is impeccable. He has been a strong supporter of African-Americans.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nikki Tinker is challenging Representative Steve Cohen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); COUNTIES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); IRAQ WAR (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: STEVE COHEN (93%); STEVEN A COHEN (93%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



158 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: State Board Lets Ciprianis Keep Their Liquor Licenses

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The verdict is in: Patrons of the Cipriani family's empire of opulent restaurants and catering halls across Manhattan will not have do without their favorite cocktail when they order the calamari risotto or Venetian calf's liver.
The State Liquor Authority voted 2 to 1 on Wednesday to accept the family's $500,000 settlement offer, rather than revoke its liquor licenses for more than four dozen violations of state law at nine venues, including the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center, Harry Cipriani at the Sherry-Netherland Hotel and Cipriani Wall Street. 
The future of the family's operations, which are the favored sites for many prominent society events, have been in doubt since August 2007, when Giuseppe Cipriani and his father, Arrigo, pleaded guilty to charges related to tax evasion and were fined $10 million.
The authority's chairman, Daniel B. Boyle, voted on Wednesday to revoke the Ciprianis' licenses. But he was overruled by the two other board members, Jeanique Greene and Noreen Healey, who expressed concern about the potential loss of jobs if the restaurants and catering halls were forced to close. They voted instead to accept the Ciprianis' settlement offer not to contest the charges and to pay a $500,000 civil penalty.
The Ciprianis quickly issued a statement hailing the authority's decision.
''We are grateful that this resolution ensures that service will continue uninterrupted at Cipriani's world-class locations across New York City,'' it said. ''Cipriani is a vital part of New York City's economy and is proud to currently provide work for nearly 3,000 individuals across the city. We are eager to continue serving our clientele by providing them with the same high-class dining, events and hospitality that they have come to expect from the Cipriani family over the past 80 years.''
The settlement comes at a time when the Ciprianis, whose signature Bellini cocktail ($20.95 at Harry Cipriani on Fifth Avenue) has become a staple at many New York bars, have been laboring mightily lately to clean up a number of widely publicized feuds and scandals in New York.
But Giuseppe Cipriani, whose grandfather founded Harry's Bar in Venice, appears headed for a new clash, this time with his landlord at Rockefeller Center, Tishman Speyer Properties.
The Cipriani company is filing a 75-page report on Thursday asking the city to designate the Rainbow Room, at the top of 30 Rockefeller Plaza, as a landmark. The company says that landmark status would ''protect the Rainbow Room from being converted into office space by the venue's landlord, Tishman Speyer.''
A spokesman for Tishman Speyer, however, said that the company had no plans to convert it.
Many New Yorkers consider the Art Deco Rainbow Room a storied nightclub, attracting celebrities like Edward Albee and Zero Mostel -- and lesser-known couples celebrating their wedding anniversaries -- to dance and enjoy performers like Sarah Vaughan, Noel Coward, Dave Brubeck and Flip Wilson.
But it is unclear exactly what would be preserved by granting it landmark status, since the Rainbow Room has undergone a succession of major renovations since it was built in the 1930s, including one in the early 1980s.
''The Rainbow Room will continue as a restaurant and a place for catered events, whether it is operated by Cipriani or someone else,'' said Stephen Rubenstein, a spokesman for Tishman Speyer.
A restaurant executive who has been briefed on the dispute said that Tishman Speyer had been unhappy with what the executive described as the shabby state of the space under the Ciprianis.
In any event, the Ciprianis quietly settled a long-running dispute with another landlord, at the former Toy Building on Fifth Avenue near Madison Square Park, by agreeing to move out in January. The Ciprianis operate a catering hall on the ground floor and in the basement.
At the time, the Cipriani company said it was looking for new projects in landmark properties.
The landlord, L & L Holding Company, had tried to evict the Ciprianis for what it said were violations of the lease, as well as the family's indictment for tax fraud. The Ciprianis fired back with a $20 million countersuit, claiming that the landlord was maliciously interfering with their business.
The Ciprianis' legal problems began when a convicted mob financier who worked for the family's restaurant company pleaded guilty in 2007 to defrauding insurance companies and the Social Security Administration. Prosecutors said the financier, Dennis Pappas, worked full time as a vice president for Cipriani, but off the books. But a lawyer for the Ciprianis said at the time that Mr. Pappas's title was largely ceremonial.
Arrigo Cipriani later pleaded guilty to a felony tax charge, while Giuseppe pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor. The State Liquor Authority, in turn, cited the tax-evasion crimes as potential grounds for revoking the Cipriani company's licenses and accused it of filing false information about its ownership.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Cipriani on Fifth Avenue is known for a $20.95 cocktail. The state liquor board has voted 2 to 1 not to revoke licenses at nine Cipriani venues.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE FORNABAIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); FAMILY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); TAX FRAUD (74%); TAX LAW (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%)

COMPANY: HARRY'S BAR LTD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



159 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: High-Profile Champion Keeps Low Profile

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Though these things are kept like state secrets, many expect that China's most popular Olympic champion, the hurdler Liu Xiang, will play a visible role in Friday's opening to the Beijing Games. Perhaps he will carry China's flag or light the Olympic caldron.
 Dramatic public appearances by Liu have been rare since May 23, when he won the 110-meter hurdles at a rehearsal meet here at the Olympic Stadium, known as the Bird's Nest. He has not competed since then, a fallow period during which he lost his world record and, perhaps, his invincibility. 
 Four years ago in Athens, Liu became the first Chinese man to win an Olympic gold medal in track and field. For China, the hurdles final will be the most highly anticipated event at the Beijing Games. Liu's performance could go a long way in determining China's broader success as it seeks to top the United States in the gold medal count.
 But Liu has taken what seems to be an enormous risk by skipping the European track circuit, where hurdlers compete often in an event that requires rhythm and precise technique. The pressure on him, already immense, continues to press in, like the humidity.
 ''I, myself, would be very uncomfortable coming into the Games without actual race preparation,'' said Renaldo Nehemiah, the former world-record holder, who dominated the hurdles in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
 Before the Olympics, Liu had planned only two races -- the Reebok Grand Prix in New York on May 31 and the Prefontaine Classic on June 8. He withdrew in the rain from the Reebok meet with a tight hamstring, then was disqualified from the Prefontaine with a false start that might have been deliberate.
 Since then, while Liu has returned to train in China, Dayron Robles of Cuba has broken Liu's world record of 12.88 seconds, lowering it to 12.87. David Oliver of the United States has also run under 13 seconds. Meanwhile, questions persist about Liu. Has he been hurt more seriously than he let on? Is he in form? His coach has insisted there is no injury, that Liu is 90 percent fit and planning to peak in the Olympics. Others wonder.
 ''I don't necessarily think Liu would have chosen to bypass the spring/summer races unless he wasn't physically fit to perform at the level he's come to expect of himself,'' Nehemiah said in an e-mail message. ''Why allow your competitors to gain a psychological advantage?''
 Still, Nehemiah believes that a hurdler of such masterful technique could regain his timing through the three rounds of the Olympics. Liu has been at his best at major international competitions, while Robles has been unreliable. That is what 1.3 billion Chinese are counting on, anyway. Liu is not only a sports star. He is a human billboard who earned an estimated $23 million in endorsements last year, and a symbol of national pride and assurance, having shown that China can compete with the United States in events that require ballistic speed and scrupulous technique.
 ''He has a kind of spirit to fight for your dreams,'' said Ju Guiping, 21, a student at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing.
 Liu's stature was evident last week, when Zhou Chenguang, a physical education teacher from Beijing, spoke about the Olympics to hundreds of schoolchildren in Sichuan Province, where the devastating earthquake struck China in May.
 ''I am Liu Xiang, you are Liu Xiang, we are all Liu Xiang,'' Zhou told the children, meaning they were all champions.
 At the same time, Zhou seems to be taking heed of television advertisements, by China's General Administration of Sport, admonishing people not to put too much pressure on athletes or emphasize gold medals too much -- even as officials have a program specifically designed to win the gold medal count.
 A defeat by Liu in the Olympics would leave all of China feeling ''regretful and pitiful'' for him, but appreciative of his past accomplishments, Zhou said, speaking through an interpreter.
 ''We are prepared for his failure, as we understand that the most important thing in the Olympic Games is not winning but taking part,'' Zhou said.
 James Li, a native of China who is manager of the United States Olympic track and field team, is not so sure that a defeat on Liu's part would be handled with such equanimity, especially if China is trailing in the overall gold medal count.
 ''I think the Chinese people, me included, should be really happy and proud that China is capable and doing a good job hosting Games of this magnitude,'' Li said. ''You really don't need one athlete's performance to prove whatever they want to prove. In track, though, they are probably pinning everything on him. From my perspective, it's somewhat unnecessary.''
 The one outcome that would be truly devastating for China is if Liu tested positive for banned performance-enhancing drugs, said Susan Brownell, an expert on Chinese sport who is a Fulbright scholar at Beijing Sport University. One result of his absence from the European circuit is that Liu was not drug-tested at high-profile meets; still, his coach told Sports Illustrated that Liu had been screened for banned substances at least 30 times this year.
 ''I think it would be really demoralizing to the Chinese people,'' Brownell said. ''If a drug test made it appear that he was not doing it on his biological gift, it would reaffirm feelings of racial inferiority.''
 Absent such a scandal, Liu and Robles are expected to deliver one of the most dramatic and memorable confrontations at the Beijing Games. Robles is a front-runner who gets a searing start and forces his competitors to chase him. Liu is not the best starter, but he makes fewer mistakes and is a ruthless competitor. If Liu took a risk by skipping the European circuit, others would take a bigger and more foolish risk in discounting him, Nehemiah said.
 ''There's not a hurdler in the world who thinks Liu is vulnerable,'' Nehemiah said. ''The road literally travels through Liu.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 2004 Olympic gold medalist Liu Xiang competing in Japan in early May. He later withdrew from one meet in the U.S. and was disqualified in another. His world record was also broken.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KOJI SASAHARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HUNAN, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); JAPAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



160 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: A Tempest in Florida

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

 BODY:
A cheerful sign outside the glistening offices of Bank United beckons consumers to tap into ''Mortgage-ade.'' Another promises a ''59 Minute Mortgage.'' 
 But easy money, it turns out, has created enormous problems at Bank United, Florida's biggest regional bank.
 By aggressively peddling a popular type of high-interest loan to risky borrowers, the bank tripled its profits in 2006 as real estate on Florida's Gold Coast peaked, only to lose nearly $100 million in late 2007 and early 2008 as the market cratered. Now, its chief executive, Alfred R. Camner, is scrambling to raise $400 million in capital, an amount nearly eight times the bank's shriveled value on the stock market. 
 Analysts and a corporate governance group are monitoring the bank's asset quality and asking why Mr. Camner was allowed, with board approval, to amass a pool of volatile loans that at one point represented 75 percent of the bank's mortgage portfolio, despite what has since proved to be great risk. 
 In many ways, Bank United symbolizes the excesses exhibited by the nation's banks as home prices soared in recent years -- and the pain that is afflicting them now that home prices are falling. Florida has been hit especially hard by the housing slump, and so has Bank United. 
 Since last September, the bank's share price has plunged 93 percent, twice as much as the Standard & Poor's 500 Regional Banks index. A year ago, the stock was $15.49 a share but closed on Wednesday at $1.50 a share, after gaining 19 cents.
 In an interview, Mr. Camner, who is also the bank's controlling shareholder, testily defended the bank's strategy. ''We did it for over 10 years,'' he said, referring to the bank's use of a risky but highly attractive product known as an option adjustable-rate mortgage. 
 ''For a very long time, it was an excellent performing package.'' he said. ''It gave the borrower a chance to manage his money. If they qualified, it was an excellent loan.''
 He also dismissed as ''completely absurd'' and ''idiotic'' concerns that the bank's practices have eroded the strength of the bank's assets, despite a recent revision by one brokerage firm of its shares to underperform. 
 Around 2003, as the Florida housing market took off, the bank, led by Mr. Camner and Ramiro Ortiz, its president, began promoting option adjustable-rate mortgages. Such loans enable borrowers to defer payments on interest as well as principal. Many banks found a bonanza in these loans, whose full interest expense can be counted as interest income by the bank whether or not the bank actually receives the money, making the loans all but irresistible to promote. 
 The strategy proved lucrative: Bank United's assets more than doubled to $15 billion from $7.1 billion in 2003, while its total loans rose to $12.5 billion from $3.9 billion. By last October, the end of the bank's fiscal year, Mr. Camner had allowed option adjustable-rate mortgages to dwarf overall mortgages three to one. 
 When the national housing market began to slide, Florida's imploded. And while the broader banking industry struggled with mounting bad loans, falling home values and a weak economy, Bank United found itself on a particularly slippery slope as its newfound base of risky regional borrowers eroded. From mid-2006 to early 2008, the percentage of its assets designated as nonperforming soared more than fivefold to 4.75 percent.
 ''The bank clearly did not understand the risks,'' said Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets. ''We believed that they pursued that business because it drove revenue and earnings growth.'' 
 Indeed, the bank kept expanding. By the end of March, 48 percent of its $9.8 billion residential loan portfolio was outside Florida.
 ''By opening up offices across the country,'' Mr. Ortiz said in an interview, ''we were diversifying risk.'' But, he added, ''we never anticipated a national downturn.'' 
 Now, some analysts fear that continued weakness in the housing market could cause an accumulation of nonperforming loans. Although losses as of May 31, were small, Mr. Cassidy said the ratio of nonperforming loans was high relative to other banks. For example, at the National City Corporation, an Ohio bank that expanded into Florida in recent years, the ratio is about 2 percent, less than half that of Bank United. 
 ''The bank is currently well capitalized,'' Douglas Rainwater, a banking analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott, said of Bank United. ''But given the amount of nonperforming loans and the trend in their growth, losses would most likely increase substantially at some point.'' 
 For the Corporate Library, an independent governance group based in Portland, Me., that is tracking the bank, the bank's board also appears not to have fully understood the risks the company was taking. Mr. Camner's compensation, which ballooned to $5.64 million, including a salary of $475,000, had grown ''way out of whack'' compared with other institutions its size, the group said.
 ''Outrageous compensation often signals a failure of oversight and backbone, so it often correlates to poor performance for shareholders in other categories,'' said Nell Minow, the editor of the Corporate Library. ''A board that can't say no to outrageous pay requests can't say no to poor strategy.''
 In the interview, Mr. Camner repeatedly bristled at the criticisms and grew angry when a reporter asked questions about his compensation package, saying everything was fully disclosed. 
 It was apparently not the first time the bank had reacted strongly to questions it felt were critical. 
 When John Pandtle, then an analyst for the financial services company Raymond James, rated Bank United's stock as underperform in February, the bank declined to allow Raymond James to participate in a meeting with investors and analysts. 
 In a note, Mr. Pandtle told clients the bank's executive management had repeatedly refused to take phone calls and e-mails ''seeking information about several areas where we have fundamental concerns, including rapidly deteriorating asset quality.'' Mr. Pandtle declined to comment for this article. 
 Mr. Camner's family ties have also been questioned by the Corporate Library. One daughter, Danielle, was previously at the bank but has left. Another daughter, Lauren, is a senior vice president and still serves on the board. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Camner remains senior managing partner of Camner Lipsitz and Poller, a law firm that reaped $12 million in fees from the bank over the last three years, and where a third daughter, Errin, is the managing director. 
 Both Ms. Minow and Mr. Rainwater wondered whether these relationships were in the interest of shareholders. ''If you bid the business out to other law firms,'' said Mr. Rainwater, ''perhaps you could save some money for shareholders.''
 Today, Bank United is sufficiently eager to raise money that Mr. Camner has agreed to give up the supervoting shares that have given him control of the bank he founded 24 years ago, if the bank is able to raise $400 million from investors. 
 ''There is a reality,'' he said. ''We need to conform to corporate governance, meaning that almost every company has one class of stock; there is only so long that you can have two classes.'' 
 Still, he defended his income and other benefits, saying that everything the company has done was fully disclosed. ''There is an independent committee that passes on everything,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (BANK PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bank United's headquarters in Coral Gables, Fla. The bank is seeking $400 million in capital to make up for its home loan losses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



161 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Shoestring Opera Evokes Nero's Rome, on Bleecker

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Trading caresses, the emperor Nero and his lover Poppea bade erotically charged farewells as continuo chords rippled from a piano. The opera director gave murmured guidance about when to kiss, when to push away, when to draw forward. The Manhattan skyline loomed, and the Hudson River gleamed outside the floor-to-ceiling windows in a studio at the Baryshnikov Arts Center in Clinton.
It was the second day of rehearsal last week of Monteverdi's ''Coronation of Poppea'' and the initial salvo in New York's latest stab at creating an opera company: a Baroque one at that. The group is called Opera Omnia. It has shown an unconventional bent from the start.
The first news release quoted the founder and artistic director, Wesley Chinn, as saying, ''I can't actually pretend to quote myself in a release I'm writing myself just to satisfy the conventions of press-release style.'' 
If the tongue-in-cheek communique was meant to draw attention during the summer doldrums, it worked. But further investigation reveals that Opera Omnia is a serious entry into the ranks of small-bore companies in New York. The troupe, consisting of performers mostly in their 20s and 30s and operating on a tissue-thin budget, plans to stage its first production this month at Le Poisson Rouge (the former Village Gate) on Bleecker Street, starting on Aug. 21.
It will give five performances of ''Poppea'' in a rarely done English version with period instruments. Organizers say the style will be accessible and engaging, even raunchy. For the audience, the bar will be open and socializing encouraged, in keeping with the spirit of 17th-century performances. The production will last approximately three hours, including two 15-minute intermissions
''It's this idea of making things friendlier, taking down these barriers,'' Mr. Chinn said in a non-tongue-in-cheek interview. ''In classical music so often we set the barrier so high about what you have to know before you walk in.''
Opera Omnia fits with a recent trend on the New York classical music scene: the flourishing of small ensembles trying to fill niches, appeal to unconventional crowds or give performances in unexpected places like bars and clubs. For opera alone there are Dicapo Opera Theater, Gotham Chamber Opera, Opera Company of Brooklyn and Opera on Tap, not to mention the venerable Amato Opera.
They can draw on a large pool of underemployed but accomplished singers, many of them young, who continue to pour out of conservatories and university music departments. The New York City Opera's shutdown next season while its home, the State Theater, is being renovated has only narrowed their options -- and led to new possibilities for performers and audiences. For this ''Poppea'' many of the singers have solid credits in small roles at big companies, like City Opera, or big roles at smaller companies, like Virginia Opera. Most have Baroque opera experience; some have none but want to stretch themselves. They are being paid minimal salaries, happy for the experience. ''It's shocking what people will work for in this city,'' Mr. Chinn said. The company originated in the mind of Mr. Chinn, a Baroque violinist and member of Trinity Church's professional choir. By day he is the artistic administrator of the Little Orchestra Society. The son of a math professor and a poet, Mr. Chinn founded an early-music society at Harvard, from which he graduated in 1998 and where he first put on ''Poppea.''
His co-founders are Crystal M. Manich, the show's director, and Avi Stein, its music director. Ms. Manich spent several years as an assistant director at the Pittsburgh Opera after graduating from Carnegie-Mellon with degrees in theater and arts administration. She was led to Mr. Chinn by his sister, Hai-Ting Chinn, after working with her at an American Opera Projects production in New York. (Ms. Chinn has the role of Poppea.)
Mr. Stein is music director at St. Matthew and St. Timothy Episcopal Church on West 84th Street, coaches Baroque singers and often performs the continuo part with various groups. Neither Mr. Stein nor Ms. Manich has directed an opera before.
To put on ''Poppea'' the organizers have so far raised about $15,000 from friends, contacts at groups they perform with and family. ''Undoubtedly we will lose money,'' Mr. Chinn said. The sets will be minimal.
He plans to start incorporating the company later this year, round up board members, put on a second production a year from now and slowly add concert and dance performances. Mr. Chinn is realistic about the difficulties that lie ahead in a crowded field, especially with the economic downturn. Opera Omnia's debut could also be its farewell.
Yet its founders say the moment is ripe. New York's early-music scene is notoriously weak. Few companies in the country focus solely on Baroque opera. English-language performances are in the minority.
''We have found a niche that's unclaimed,'' Ms. Manich said. ''That's what made it exciting for us.''
The company's leaders say they fall on the other side of the performance-practice spectrum from those who try to stay as close as possible to original methods. Performing the opera in English is the most obvious statement of that.
''Authenticity is all well and good,'' Mr. Chinn said. But he added, ''The only reason to do period performance practice is because it works better.''
Most important, Mr. Stein said, the audience must understand the drama. ''In the end everything's a compromise,'' he added. ''I don't believe in definitive performances of anything.''
They said they chose ''Poppea'' because of its dramatic continuity, intimacy and relative fame. First performed in Venice in 1643, it was the last of Monteverdi's operas. The title character, the mistress of Nero (the emperor is played here by a mezzo, Cherry Duke), schemes to supplant his virtuous consort, Octavia. Poppea's lust for power, and plain old lust, win out.
Ms. Manich has brought a theater-based outlook. On the first day of rehearsal last Thursday, she had the cast take part in a get-to-know-you drama exercise. They stood in a circle and threw a soft ball to one another, saying their names at the same time.
During a scene involving Octavia and Seneca, the philosopher advising her, Mr. Stein provided recitatives at an electric piano. The singers contributed ideas freely as Ms. Manich gave direction. She told Melissa Fogarty -- who plays Octavia, oppressed by her husband's faithlessness -- to imagine weights on her joints.
''When you're singing to each other, as much eye contact as possible because of the space,'' she told Ms. Fogarty and Steven Hrycelak, who plays the philosopher Seneca.
They discussed the ages of the characters and compared Octavia (born to greatness) with Poppea (social-climbing free spirit). ''Add a little bit of nonchalance,'' Ms. Manich told Ms. Fogarty. ''Find the balance.''
In an interview later Mr. Stein summed up the opera's themes. ''It's about political manipulation, what people do to gain power, to achieve love,'' he said. ''It's about the fleetingness of human happiness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hai-Ting Chinn and Cherry Duke rehearse the opera ''Poppea.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Pg. E1)
Above, Hai-Ting Chinn, at left, as Poppea and Cherry Duke as Nero rehearse ''The Coronation of Poppea'' at an arts space in Clinton
 inspired by Roman sculptures, bottom right, a costume designer, top right, outfits Melissa Fogarty, who plays Octavia. Opera Omnia will present the opera in English at a club in the Village.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); THEATER (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (65%); TRENDS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Coronation of Poppea (Opera)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



162 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Your Raise Will Be in Gallons

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
E-mail: belkin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN Washington State, Microsoft has leased three large office complexes miles from company headquarters in recent months to shorten the commutes of about 7,000 employees. 
 In San Francisco, Citigate Cunningham, a public relations company, now encourages workers to stay home whenever possible, providing laptop computers and BlackBerrys to enable telecommuting, and reimbursing them $40 a month for high-speed Internet connections in their homes.
 At Rejuvenation, a lighting manufacturer in Portland, Ore., employees skip one day of work completely. The company has gone to a four-day week, with each workday being 10 hours long. Alysa Rose, the president, also gives away a free bicycle to an employee every month. 
 Nationwide, workers are being presented with free gas cards, subsidized bus passes, more money in their paychecks, and the opportunity to turn their cars into company billboards (with the company often picking up all fuel costs, not just miles spent commuting). 
 Gasoline has become the new workplace perk, as employers scramble to help workers cut its use and cost. A dollar a gallon ago, things like telecommuting, shortened workweeks and Internet subsidies were ways of saving time and providing workers with a little more balance in their lives. Now they have become ways to save money and to keep workers from, well, walking.
 ''We had 14 calls last week and 9 of those named high gas prices as their No. 1 reason for leaving their job,'' said Lauren Milligan, who helps job-seekers polish their resumes at ResuMayDay, a career-management services company in Warrenville, Ill. ''Employers have to start paying attention.''
 Some employers have come to the same conclusion. ''We need to stay competitive and viable,'' said David Lewis, the president of OperationsInc., a human resource consultancy in Stamford, Conn., where, since June, employees receive up to $100 a month on an American Express cash card to offset rising gas prices.
 ''An extra $100 a month for gas and you have a real issue that could result in turnover,'' Mr. Lewis explained, adding that even with rising unemployment, it is more economical for him to retain workers than hire new people and train them. 
 Richard Holtz, the president of InfiniSys, which designs technology systems for buildings, and has offices in Daytona Beach, Fla., also sees cushioning the effect of rising gas prices as a cost of doing business. 
 To stay competitive, he decided he had to help his workers, who were spending about 15 percent of their salaries on commuting. He switched to a four-day workweek, gave everyone a small raise (25 cents an hour) and began paying for home Internet to foster telecommuting.
 The shortened workweek seems to be catching on, at least as an experiment. All 4,000 employees of the city of Birmingham, Ala., switched to that schedule as of July 1. Utah announced a similar switch in early July. Suffolk County in New York, and Oakland County in Michigan are also adjusting workers' schedules.
 Schedules are often staggered, so that the office itself is open Monday through Friday, but any given employee is there for only four days. Some people love the new schedule, because it feels like another day off each week. Others hate it because of the complications of coordinating child care. But almost everyone agrees that saving 20 percent of commuting costs is a plus. 
 The National School Boards Association reports that 100 schools in 16 states have moved to a four-day week (with longer school days) in order to save on transportation, heating and cooling costs.
 So could three-day weekends for parents and children be the norm in the future?
 Companies not quite ready for such a dramatic change are taking modest gas-saving steps: a new emphasis on telecommuting, for example. Sabre Holdings in Southlake, Tex., which started encouraging employees to work from home in June, has not only saved them money. There has been an unexpected benefit, the elimination of what had become a morning ritual at headquarters -- the dash to find a desk. 
 Last year, Sabre, which owns travel-theme companies, including Travelocity.com, had downsized from three office buildings to two, to save on cooling and heating costs. Cubicles were then assigned daily, first come first served, resulting in a stress-inducing game of musical chairs. 
 Telecommuting also saves employees the money they had been spending on work clothes and takeout lunch, said Janelle O'Haugherty, a company spokeswoman.
 Even employees who are already telecommuting are doing more of it, with corporate blessings. Steve Perry, who works in licensing at SelectQuote Insurance Services in San Francisco, had been working from home one day a week for the last few years. A few months ago, he added a second at-home day. 
 And just last month he began outfitting a full office in his house, where he plans to work four days a week, going to the office only once. That way, he will cut the cost of his three-hour round-trip commute from Napa to $25 from $100 a week.
 Companies that would prefer that workers come in daily are helping to pay the cost of getting them there. Bayless Engineering and Manufacturing, based in the Santa Clarita Valley of California, has about a dozen employees who live 50 miles away in the Antelope Valley. This year the company created a van pool -- a rental from Enterprise -- to transport them to work and back.
 The University of Richmond in Virginia now provides free daily bus vouchers. Of the university's 1,300 employees, 35 arrived and departed by bus before the program began this summer. Now 150 do.
 Averett Warmus Durkee, an accounting firm in Orlando, Fla., presented each employee with a $1,000 raise to offset rising fuel costs. And HotBox Pizza, a four-store chain in Indianapolis, has changed its delivery ways.
 Until last month, its drivers had to use their own vehicles. But Gabe Connell, the owner, noticed that arguments were breaking out among drivers over whose turn it was to deliver to distant addresses.
 ''Until gas went up they would jump at any call they could get, so it was a bad sign when they were trying to get out of deliveries,'' Mr. Connell said. ''Pizza and delivery are synonymous. I can't risk losing drivers.''
 So he is in the process of buying five Smart cars (''so small that one car can fit in the gas tank of a Hummer,'' he said) that get about 40 miles per gallon. The vehicles will double as rolling advertisements, because they will be painted with the chain's red and black logo. Or with something that resembles the company logo. At HotBox the napkins say Napkin, and the shirts worn by the waiters say Shirt. So the new wheels will simply say Car.
 Autos as advertising are also the approach of Jobing.com, which runs employment Web sites in 18 cities. The 297 employees at headquarters in Phoenix can apply to have their cars turned into Jobing billboards by means of an adhesive plastic skin. 
 In return for the publicity (and as compensation for the awkwardness of taking such a car on, say, a first date) the employee is paid $500 a month plus reimbursement for all fuel costs -- both for business and personal use of the car.
 The program has been in existence for more than five years, said Joe Cockrell, the director of marketing (whose Ford Escape is wrapped and who took a road trip to Sedona last weekend, with Jobing picking up the $120 he spent on gas). But this is the first year that Jobing has had a waiting list for the car makeovers.
 ''Gas prices are making a lot of people look at things like this differently,'' Mr. Cockrell said. ''It's making everyone get creative.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KOREN SHADMI) (pg. G2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); TELECOMMUTING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (57%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (66%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



163 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Little Pollution, But Plenty Of Clouds

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Qinhuangdao, China
This seacoast city of 2.8 million people is not exactly San Diego on a crystal clear day, but the temperature was a few degrees lower than in the very big town two hours southwest of here Wednesday, the breeze off the water was occasionally cooling and a cloud or two could actually be identified in an otherwise pallid sky.
It took two hours by clean, efficient and air-conditioned railway to get here from Beijing to watch the Abby Wambach-less United States women's soccer team drop its Olympic opener, 2-0, to Norway, its tormentor in the gold medal game eight years ago in Sydney. On a warm but tolerably misty night, the crowd was sparse but at least the gals from both countries ran free and unmasked, and should probably be grateful to be consigned for now to the provinces, far away from the stifling center of the 2008 Summer Games. 
Since the women's soccer players were granted Olympic status in 1996, they have been in the category of the roving, spread-the-goodwill sport. I can remember flying from Sydney to the Australian capital, Canberra, for the Americans' semifinal victory over Brazil in 2000, and writing that they should one day have the chance to live in the athletes' village in the middle of the host city, march in the opening ceremonies and not have to make a semifinal or final to get the full-blown Olympic experience.
This time, it appears they have gotten the better deal, if Beijing 2008 is to be ultimately judged by the quality of the rather pungent air that has blanketed the city, as feared for years.
The people from the International Olympic Committee have been lockstep with the Chinese, who say it's not pollution, just extreme seasonal humidity and haze. Even if that's true, it's still an explanatory indictment of the I.O.C. for at least not staging these Games during a less-oppressive month (as it did in Sydney and didn't in Atlanta). Despite the continuous guarantees of a competitive environment conducive to maximum athletic performance, that seems like wishful thinking now, no matter what accounts for the soupy air and how the hosts and their enablers pretend otherwise.
The other day, the front page of the English-language China Daily reported that ''blue skies smiled over Beijing for the fourth day in a row,'' but that dubious news bulletin apparently did not reach the four American cyclists who stepped off their plane Tuesday wearing specially designed protective masks.
None of the bureaucrats were happy, worried as they are about embarrassing their hosts even before the opening ceremony Friday. Unfortunate as that might be, it's not as if the Chinese are helping themselves in the publicity department. Not allowing Joey Cheek, the respected American speedskater and Darfur activist, into the country should embarrass the I.O.C. even more.
Then again, when you make a deal that puts the interests of corporate sponsors above those of the athletes, when you are seduced by promises of packed venues in a country with a booming economy, be prepared for some contentious fallout from those whose bodies are their career tools, their hard drives. To the consummately trained athlete, a proper work environment is a human right.
No such worries for the women's soccer crowd, which will not travel to Beijing until one semifinal is played there, the other in Shanghai. Here, at least according to the journalists' guide to the city, ''days with grade two air qualities or above reach more than 350 days,'' which I guess is someone's way of saying every day.
An official with the United States team said the air quality here had not been a problem since the team's arrival last week, an opinion echoed by midfielder Shannon Boxx. ''The air?'' she said. ''I haven't noticed it. I notice the heat, that's all, but it's not like we haven't played in China before. We came here knowing what to expect.''
It didn't look that way when they fell behind, 2-0, by the fourth minute against a team they had schooled by a collective 12-1 in their last three meetings. Sluggish as the Americans were to start the game, they couldn't blame their sudden predicament on weather, or pollution, just two deflating errors.
The first one was by goalie Hope Solo, who came off her line, knocked over her defender and failed to reach a ball in the air that was then headed into the net. The second was a pass-back at midfield by the veteran defender Kate Markgraf right to the Norwegian Melissa Wiik, who dribbled in on the right side and beat Solo at the far post.
The rest of the game was mostly an opportunity for the Americans to prove they could create scoring opportunities and finish them without Wambach, their one irreplaceable player, who broke her leg in the team's last Olympic tuneup. They succeeded on the former, failed on the latter. Now they have little margin for error against Japan and New Zealand, if they intend to make it to Beijing.
Which by that time will be into a third straight week of blue skies, or so the organizers will tell us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); WINTER OLYMPICS (75%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (75%); SOCCER (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (70%); CYCLING (70%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



164 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: New Executive Director for the Public, From Atlantic Theater Company

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
The Public Theater has chosen as its new executive director Andrew D. Hamingson, who from his perch at the Atlantic Theater Company helped usher ''Spring Awakening'' to Broadway, the Public announced on Wednesday.
 Mr. Hamingson will fill a position soon to be vacated by Mara Manus, the theater's top financial executive for the last six years. 
 Under the two-pronged leadership structure at the Public, Mr. Hamingson will be responsible for administrative and financial matters, while Oskar Eustis, the artistic director, oversees programming. ''He is a fantastic combination of an inside and outside guy,'' Mr. Eustis said. ''He really has demonstrated strong management and internal leadership skills and ability in fund-raising. Being able to do both of those was an important part of the package.'' 
 Mr. Hamingson, who starts the job in October, will oversee a $20 million annual budget that has risen from $11 million in the last five years. But he also faces the challenge of keeping the theater financially stable amid an uncertain economic picture, Mr. Eustis said. 
 ''We are, of course, buckling our seat belts because we're heading into a very difficult economy,'' he said, adding that while individual philanthropy has remained steady, corporate contributions have fallen recently. 
 Ms. Manus resigned as executive director in April and will become executive director at the Film Society of Lincoln Center in September. In her six years at the Public she was widely credited with strengthening the theater's financial state.
 On Wednesday Mr. Hamingson, 45, called his appointment ''a dream come true.'' 
 ''Since I've come to New York I've always been going to see shows at the Public, and I think it's every arts administrator's dream to run a theater like the Public,'' he said.
 One of the first unofficial appearances in his new role will be attending opening night of the Public's revival of ''Hair'' on Thursday in Central Park. 
 The Public was founded in 1954 by Joseph Papp as the Shakespeare Workshop and now produces plays, musicals and Shakespeare classics at its Lafayette Street complex in the East Village and the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. 
 In the 2008-9 season the Public will present ''Bounce,'' with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by John Weidman; ''Taking Over,'' by Danny Hoch; and ''If You See Something Say Something,'' by Mike Daisey, among other shows. 
 At the Atlantic Theater Company, where Mr. Hamingson has been the managing director since August 2004, he successfully handled a tricky real-estate predicament that resulted in the theater moving to a different location in Chelsea so that luxury condominiums could move in. But his most visible success at the Atlantic, where he worked alongside Neil Pepe, the artistic director, was the transfer of ''Spring Awakening'' to Broadway; it was the company's first musical since its founding in 1985. 
 After joining the Public, Mr. Hamingson said, he hopes Mr. Eustis will be able to spend more time ''on the art and the making of art and building the relationship with artists.''
 ''My real goal is to put the Public back to the greatest theater in America,'' Mr. Hamingson said. ''I've always felt that the job of the executive director is to work with the board and realize the vision of Oskar Eustis.'' 
 Growing up in Rochester, Mr. Hamingson became interested in theater while attending an all-boys Roman Catholic high school, where students performed what he calls ''pushing-the-envelope'' plays like ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.'' 
 ''I was never onstage, and I've never wanted to be onstage,'' Mr. Hamingson said. ''I was always the guy who was stage crew and figuring out the accounting and things like that.'' 
 He earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from the State University of New York at Geneseo, and took a job establishing a Domino's Pizza franchise in Rochester while indulging his interest in theater with occasional volunteer work. 
 By 1992 Mr. Hamingson had moved to New York City, where he enrolled in New York University and began studying for his master's degree in performing-arts administration. He landed an internship at the Manhattan Theater Club, where he worked for 12 years, eventually rising to director of development. In 2004 he joined the Atlantic Theater Company.
 And last December Mr. Hamingson got around to submitting his master's thesis at N.Y.U. 
 The topic? '' 'Spring Awakening,' '' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew D. Hamingson starts his new job in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



165 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3824 words

HEADLINE: 500: Deadly U.S. Milestone in Afghan War

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
Not long after Staff Sgt. Matthew D. Blaskowski was killed by a sniper's bullet last Sept. 23 in eastern Afghanistan, his mother received an e-mail message with a link to a video on the Internet. A television reporter happened to have been filming a story at Sergeant Blaskowski's small mountain outpost when it came under fire and the sergeant was shot.
Since then, Sergeant Blaskowski's parents, Cheryl and Terry Blaskowski of Cheboygan, Mich., have watched their 27-year-old son die over and over. Ms. Blaskowski has taken breaks from work to watch it on her computer, sometimes several times a day, studying her son's last movements.
''Anything to be closer,'' she said. ''To see what could have been different, how it -- '' the bullet -- ''happened to find him.'' 
For months, the Blaskowskis felt alone in watching their son die in an isolated and nearly forgotten war. And then, in June, the war in Afghanistan roared back into public view when American deaths from hostilities exceeded those in Iraq. In the face of an expanding threat from the Taliban, the conflict is becoming deadlier and much more violent for American troops, who three weeks ago reached their highest deployment levels ever, at 36,000.
June was the second deadliest month for the military in Afghanistan since the war began, with 23 American deaths from hostilities, compared with 22 in Iraq. July was less deadly, with 20 deaths, compared with six in Iraq. On July 22, nearly seven years after the conflict began on Oct. 7, 2001, the United States lost its 500th soldier in the Afghanistan war.
(The Pentagon says that 563 American service members have died in Operation Enduring Freedom, the umbrella term for the global American-led antiterror campaign that has the Afghanistan war at its center and includes deployments in the Philippines and Africa. Of those deaths, according to an analysis by The New York Times, 510 have occurred in Afghanistan or are directly linked to the war there.)
Now, a war that had long been overshadowed by the one in Iraq is back in public view, at the forefront of both news media attention and the presidential campaign. The use of the Afghanistan war for political purposes disheartens the Blaskowskis, they say, but has at least one positive aspect.
''The good thing about the heightened awareness now is that at least some of these soldiers' names are getting out there,'' Ms. Blaskowski said recently. ''If anything good is coming out of that media attention, it's that people see that they are truly human. It's not just numbers. It's actually brothers and sons and fathers. They're human.''
The numbers, as impersonal as they may be, are quickly mounting, and more families each week are joining the Blaskowskis in their grief.
During the first three years of the war, about two-thirds of all American casualties came under so-called nonhostile conditions -- illnesses, vehicle crashes and accidental discharges of weapons, for example.
But that pattern flipped in 2005. Since then, about 70 percent of American casualties in Afghanistan have occurred under hostile conditions, like small-arms fire, rocket attacks and, increasingly, improvised mines and bombs.
In 2007, 111 American service members were killed, the highest annual toll so far in the war. So far this year, 91 Americans have died, a rate faster than last year. At least 78 of those deaths have come in combat; by comparison, 50 were killed during the same period last year.
Though Afghan security forces have suffered the vast majority of fatalities in the war, exact numbers are hard to come by. The Defense Ministry said that nearly 600 Afghan soldiers were killed from March 2005 to March 2008, the only period for which it provided statistics. The Afghan Interior Ministry, which began recording police deaths in March 2007, said 1,119 police officers were killed from March 2007 to March 2008.
Late last month, the military released data showing that insurgent activity had soared, with attacks in eastern border regions up nearly 40 percent from last year.
''Make no mistake, NATO is not winning in Afghanistan,'' the Atlantic Council of the United States, a nongovernmental organization dedicated to fostering ties between North America and Europe, warned in a report in January. ''Unless this reality is understood and action is taken promptly, the future of Afghanistan is bleak.''
The report was actually one of the more positive assessments among a deluge of critical reports on the war's progress issued this year by international study groups.
Such dark warnings, along with years of low interest in the conflict among many Americans and even political candidates, have led the families and friends of fallen American service members to wonder whether they perished for a winning cause, a losing one or, worse, a meaningless one.
''It's like people forget about us being in Afghanistan; Larry would tell me that all the time,'' said David Rougle, whose brother, Staff Sgt. Larry I. Rougle, 25, of West Jordan, Utah, was killed in a Taliban ambush last October in Kunar Province. ''You always hear about Iraq, but you never hear about Afghanistan.''
''People have forgotten,'' Mr. Rougle said. ''There's a real war going on. People are dying all the time in Afghanistan.''
The War Begins to Change
On Oct. 10, 2001, three days after American and British warplanes began bombing Taliban and Al Qaeda targets in Afghanistan to open the war, Master Sgt. Evander E. Andrews, 36, was part of a military work crew building a runway at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, which was being used to stage American troops and warplanes.
Sergeant Andrews was a hard-working man who grew up on his family's farm in the small town of Solon in central Maine. ''He loved the farm and he loved the cows, and he'd come home from leave and go out in the barn and take a deep breath and say, 'Oh, that smells good!' '' recalled his mother, Mary Andrews. ''Now, who else would say that?''
As a boy, he had developed a fascination for trucks and other big equipment. He joined the military to further his goal of becoming a civil engineer and was assigned to the 366th Civil Engineer Squadron of the Air Force.
On that October day, a forklift was removing the tailgate of a large truck when the gate fell from the forklift's grasp and hit Sergeant Andrews, killing him. He became the first American fatality in the war.
It was a war of retaliation and pursuit. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Bush administration demanded that the Taliban government surrender Osama bin Laden, who was commanding the Qaeda network from Afghanistan. The Taliban's refusal prompted the start of the American bombing campaign on Oct. 7.
By that time, an American force numbering in the tens of thousands had been marshaled across a military theater stretching from the Indian Ocean to the Red Sea to fight the new war on terror, an amorphous campaign with Afghanistan at its heart. But during the first few months, the actual American presence within Afghanistan was sparse, with much of the fighting conducted by anti-Taliban opposition groups supported by American advisers on the ground and by coalition airpower.
Not only were most of the first 100 Americans to die in the war killed in accidents or illnesses rather than attacks, but almost half also died outside the main theater, across a regional network of supply bases and refueling outposts. It would be many months before combat deaths began to take a heavy toll.
Mary Andrews said it had been easier to deal with her son's death because it came as a result of an accident rather than from enemy fire.
''We were thankful that he died at the hands of his own men that he loved, and not at the hands of those who hated him and hated all Americans,'' she said. ''If someone out of hate killed him, it's kind of a double grief. But it wasn't someone out of hate. It was someone who loved him, someone who cared about him.''
''I'm not saying it's easy getting along without him,'' she continued, ''but it's easier to think about it that way.''
After the initial bombing campaign, Afghan militia forces backed by American and other foreign troops swept the Taliban from power and, by the end of March 2002, had driven most of the surviving Qaeda and Taliban fighters across the border into Pakistan or into hiding in southern Afghanistan.
Afghanistan then appeared to enter a period of relative stability. In April, President Bush made a speech promising a vast American-led reconstruction effort in the style of the Marshall Plan, and in the summer, a transitional administration was established under Hamid Karzai. American generals increased American troop levels in Afghanistan to about 9,700 by the end of the year, most with a mandate to hunt for the remnants of Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
In total, 11 Americans died in connection with the war in 2001, 49 in 2002, and 46 in 2003.
But meanwhile, the Taliban was quietly regrouping. Through recruitment drives in the Pashtun-dominated communities of southern Afghanistan and the madrassas of Pakistan, and low-key infiltration from Pakistan into southern Afghanistan, the Taliban began to rebuild its shrunken forces and prepare for a renewed jihad against Afghan and foreign troops.
Guerrilla attacks against American troops and their allies steadily increased throughout 2002 and 2003, and in 2004, the nature of the war, and of American casualties, began to shift. Nonhostile causes continued to inflict the majority of deaths that year, including the accident from American fire in eastern Afghanistan that killed Pat Tillman, the former safety for the Arizona Cardinals and arguably the most famous American casualty in the war. But an increasing percentage of soldiers was dying from insurgent gunfire, rockets and bombs.
One was Specialist Joseph A. Jeffries of the Army Reserve's 320th Psychological Operations Company. When Specialist Jeffries was deployed to Afghanistan in February 2004, he told his family little about the danger he was facing.
''He kind of led me to believe that it was more cushy than it was,'' said his wife, Betsy Jeffries, who lives in Beaverton, Ore. They had married shortly before his deployment, and she was pregnant when he shipped off. His obfuscation ''was his way of sheltering me,'' Ms. Jeffries said, adding that her husband had joined the military to improve people's lives.
Specialist Jeffries was sent to southeastern Afghanistan to work with Special Forces soldiers from Fort Bragg, N.C. Citing secrecy rules, military officials would not reveal the details of his assignments, though Special Forces units have often been engaged in dangerous tasks like hunting down the chief Taliban and Qaeda operatives.
As a psychological operations expert, Specialist Jeffries would have had a variety of duties with Special Forces teams, said Tina Beller, a spokeswoman for the Army's Civil Affairs and Psychological Operations Command at Fort Bragg. Such experts acted as liaisons between the Green Berets and local residents they encountered, and distributed leaflets and other information that discouraged support for the insurgency and urged support for the coalition.
On May 29, 2004, Specialist Jeffries was in a Humvee returning to his base in Kandahar Province from an undisclosed mission when a series of mines planted in a mountain pass exploded near his vehicle, Ms. Jeffries said. He and three other American servicemen, including a Navy Seal and two Green Berets, were killed. Specialist Jeffries was 21.
May 2004 was the beginning of a stretch of six months during which hostile acts were to blame for the majority of American deaths. Looking back, that period now appears to be something of a tipping point for American forces in the war. Nearly half of the 51 Americans killed that year died as a result of hostile action, up from about 37 percent in 2002 and 2003.
And the battle was about to get far deadlier for the Americans.
The Taliban Return
Back home, a sense of victory in Afghanistan, however premature or misguided, had taken hold, and the war had begun to fade from the American consciousness, eclipsed by the much larger, newer American-led effort in Iraq, which began in March 2003.
When Sgt. Michael J. Kelley, 26, of Scituate, Mass., announced in early 2005 that he was going to Afghanistan, members of his family were heartened that it was not Iraq, where the insurgency was already virulent and widespread, and the conflict seemed far more dangerous. Relief was a common response among parents and relatives of American soldiers deployed to Afghanistan.
''You don't hear as much about Afghanistan,'' said Sergeant Kelley's mother, Karen Kelley.
Sergeant Kelley was a quiet man who read a lot, liked to draw and talked about becoming a graphic artist when he had fulfilled his military obligations. Uninterested in college, he had joined the Massachusetts Army National Guard after graduating from high school and, in his civilian life, held a series of jobs including landscaper and cellphone salesman.
His mother maintained a brave face as her son left for Central Asia, accepting his assurances that he would be all right, but silently harboring a grim premonition that he would not return home.
Sergeant Kelley was deployed to a small, rugged Special Forces outpost in Shkin, in the eastern border province of Paktika, where the Green Berets had been in frequent combat with Taliban rebels. As a field artillery radar operator, his duty was to use radar to locate the source of enemy mortars and rockets to guide accurate counterfire.
On June 8, 2005, the base was hit with a barrage of mortars. But Sergeant Kelley had no chance to do his job. At the moment of attack, he was part of a team unloading a Chinook helicopter. The mortar hit the helicopter landing zone, spraying shrapnel and killing Sergeant Kelley and another soldier, Pfc. Emmanuel Hernandez, 22, of Yauco, P.R.
''We were just fortunate that we were able to have an open casket,'' Ms. Kelley said. ''It brought some kind of closure because we didn't have to wonder whether he was really in there. Other families aren't so lucky.''
The two deaths came amid a surge of fatalities. At least 27 Americans died that June, 25 from hostile causes, making it the deadliest month of the war up to that point for American service members. It remains the second deadliest month in the war for American troops, and the deadliest ranked by those who died in hostile conditions.
The month also saw the single deadliest attack of the war so far for Americans: the downing of a Chinook helicopter by an insurgent's rocket-propelled grenade, which killed all 16 service members on board. The men were on a mission to rescue a team of Navy Seals that had been reported missing in Kunar Province near the Pakistan border.
In all, 95 Americans died in Afghanistan in 2005, up from 51 in 2004, and for the first time in the war, hostile deaths in Operation Enduring Freedom outpaced nonhostile deaths. The year 2005 also saw a leap in the Taliban's use of homemade bombs -- improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.s, in military parlance -- most often buried in dirt roads. They were no less deadly than they were proving to be in Iraq.
The terrain was ideal for laying traps and hiding bombs. Many American troops were based in mountainous areas that lacked paved roads, and were vulnerable to mines buried in the dirt roadways. They were often forced to conduct their patrols on foot, walking from village to village along goat paths and dried riverbeds, and through narrow rocky passes susceptible to ambushes. (This year, for the first time, more than half of all hostile deaths have been attributed to improvised explosive devices.)
Beginning in 2006, the United States would begin to share the burden of casualties with its foreign partners in greater numbers than ever.
That year, NATO expanded its range of military operations in Afghanistan, and thousands of British, Canadian and Dutch troops under NATO command -- supplemented by Australian, Estonian, Danish and Romanian soldiers -- replaced the several hundred American troops that had been trying to fend off a return of the Taliban to its former strongholds in the Pashtun heartland of the south.
As the newly arriving troops began to enter the most insecure areas, they encountered a reconstituted Taliban.
At least 39 British troops and 36 Canadian troops died in 2006; in the four previous years, the British had suffered five fatalities and the Canadians seven.
The death toll remained high for American troops, who, by the end of 2006, numbered about 22,100, most concentrated in the east and southeast. That year, 87 Americans were killed, most in insurgent attacks, and an additional 111 in 2007.
Many of the American casualties during the last two years came where American troops, with the support of the Afghan army, were pushing into areas that were under the sway of Taliban insurgents.
''The areas we moved into had not had a large constant U.S. presence,'' said Command Sgt. Maj. Jimmy Carabello of the 10th Mountain Division. His battalion, the First Battalion, 32nd Infantry Regiment, had responsibility for the security of a large mountainous swath of eastern Afghanistan from the spring of 2006 to the summer of 2007.
Over the course of its deployment, the battalion established a constellation of bases and outposts in a series of rugged valleys that had served as corridors for insurgents moving men and supplies from western Pakistan. The 10th Mountain Division soldiers also built roads, schools and medical clinics, and brought government services to villages that had seen none, Sergeant Major Carabello said. The improvements stimulated local economies and began to reconnect the central government to the people of the region.
But the gains came at great sacrifice to the troops. Twenty of his battalion's soldiers were killed in the campaign, most in fighting against the Taliban, and more than 120 were wounded, Sergeant Major Carabello said.
''It was a tough fight,'' he said. ''It was hard, tough soldiering.''
Sgt. First Class Jeffrey D. Kettle, 30, of Texas City, Tex., was deployed with the Second Battalion, Seventh Special Forces Group into this same region in early 2006. It was his second rotation in Afghanistan. Sergeant Kettle was a construction and demolition engineer, his family said, and had hoped to join the elite Delta Force.
He joined the Army after graduating from high school, following several relatives into the armed services, including his grandfather, who had participated in the D-Day landings in World War II. When he was a boy, he was fascinated by the military. He and one of his brothers, Clayton, would don camouflage clothes and face paint and wage mock battles against imaginary guerrillas in their neighborhood.
''They would be in the bushes, in trees, on roofs,'' recalled their mother, Cynthia Kettle. ''I would get phone calls. 'Cindy, don't panic or anything, but Jeffrey is on the roof again.' He had no fear.''
Like so many other service members deployed to war zones, he tried to shield his parents from the harsher realities of his life. But during one phone conversation he revealed to his mother that the Taliban was growing stronger.
''He told me, 'Mom, they're rebounding.' That was the word he used, I believe,'' Ms. Kettle recalled. ''He said, 'It's going to get worse before it gets better.' So I knew things weren't as tame as it was put out to be.''
On Aug. 12, 2007, a bomb buried by the roadway exploded near Sergeant Kettle's vehicle in the eastern Afghanistan province of Nangarhar, killing him and two other American soldiers.
''There weren't I.E.D.s when Jeff was there the first time,'' Ms. Kettle said. ''And now they're getting all the things that Iraq has and they're bringing in those heinous ways of killing. As I gather, this I.E.D. was ridiculously large. It's the easiest and most cowardly way of doing things.''
A Search for Meaning
Louis Brewster's son, Sgt. Bryan A. Brewster, 24, of Fontana, Calif., died with nine others in May 2006 after their Chinook helicopter developed a mechanical failure and plunged into a deep ravine in Kunar Province. Ever since, Mr. Brewster has scoured the news media in a determined search for news of his son's distant war.
''Outside the Pat Tillman thing, people don't remember it,'' Mr. Brewster said. ''As a father it angers me some. It angered me when he was there, especially since Iraq gets all the attention, Iraq gets all the money.''
But for Mr. Brewster and many other parents and relatives, the sense of a forgotten loss is more than personal. Many are convinced that the public's neglect of the war in Afghanistan is actually hurting the soldiers' chances of success.
''It is my sense that it is a pivotal time in this thing,'' Mr. Brewster said. ''I think it's a valid war, but because it doesn't get the attention, it doesn't get all it needs. Consequently, I think the guerrilla war will be going for a long time.''
NATO commanders have said they need at least three more brigades -- more than 7,500 troops -- to turn the conflict decisively in the American-led coalition's favor. And numerous analysts, international study groups and nongovernmental organizations have warned that in the absence of a redoubled commitment by the United States' allies, the American-led coalition's chances of success look poor.
''Afghanistan is not lost, but the signs are not good,'' said the International Crisis Group, a nonpartisan group that tries to prevent global conflict, in a February report. ''As a reinvigorated insurgency threatens the gains that have been made, and Western capitals, pressured by publics unwilling to accept military casualties, begin to explore endgames and exit strategies, the risk of losing Afghanistan is very real.''
On the video clip from last year that the Blaskowskis have seen so many times, Sergeant Blaskowski is standing calmly with two other men at the dirt-filled bastions of their outpost, near the Pakistani border. They are wearing full body armor and their backs are to the camera as they survey the valley below, a hideout of Taliban insurgents and the scene of some of the fiercest fighting American troops had experienced in Afghanistan since the invasion in 2001.
The camera cuts away from the men, then the sound of gunfire erupts, sending soldiers scrambling for cover. In the next shot, the gunfire has stopped and a lieutenant standing near the gabions screams for a medic. A soldier has been hit: Sergeant Blaskowski. A medevac helicopter swoops in to evacuate him to a larger base, but he is declared dead en route.
The images have provided Ms. Blaskowski with ''some peace,'' she said, yet in the same breath she admitted to a hope that her son would come back someday.
''I think it isn't true, and he will call in the middle of the night like he used to,'' she said. ''We would sleep lightly to listen for that blessed phone call.''
''Now,'' she added, ''we don't sleep well at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff Sgt. Matthew D. Blaskowski in summer 2007
he was killed on Sept. 23, 2007.
THE ROSTER OF THE DEAD.: Photographs of the American service members who died in Afghanistan, Pages A17-19. (pg.A1)
EVANDER E. ANDREWS: On Oct. 10, 2001, Sergeant Andrews became the first American fatality in the war in Afghanistan. (MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE)
FAREWELL TO FATHER: Ethan Andrews, 9, was comforted at the burial of his father, Sergeant Andrews, by Maj. Tom Westall, at Arlington National Cemetery. Sergeant Andrews, raised on a farm in Solon, Me., had been assigned to the 366th Civil Engineer Squadron of the Air Force in Idaho. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MATTHEW D. BLASKOWSKI: Sergeant Blaskowski's killing, captured in a journalist's video, has been viewed by his parents over and over. (COURTESY OF CHERYL BLASKOWSKI)
BRYAN A. BREWSTER: Sergeant Brewster, 24, of Fontana, Calif., died in May 2006 after the helicopter in which he traveled crashed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A18)
MICHAEL J. KELLEY: Sergeant Kelley, 26, of Scituate, Mass., died June 8, 2005, in a mortar attack on his base in Paktika Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILITARYCITY.COM)
JEFFREY D. KETTLE: Jeffrey D. Kettle Sergeant Kettle, 30, of Texas City, Tex., a construction and demolition engineer killed by a bomb in August 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE KETTLE FAMILY)
LARRY I. ROUGLE: Sergeant Rougle, 25, who often asked if people at home had forgotten the Afghanistan war, was killed last October. (pg.A19) CHARTS: THE GROWING TOLL: U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan grew through the second half of 2007 and continued at the same pace this year. Combat deaths rose, and more involved improvised explosive devices. These charts show deaths of soldiers directly involved in the Afghanistan war for six-month periods. The 2001 deaths are for December only.
COMBAT DEATHS
DEATHS BY I.E.D.S. (Improvised explosive devices)
A WIDER WAR: The Afghanistan war is part of Operation Enduring Freedom, which also encompasses military operations in the Horn of Africa, the Philippines and elsewhere. Here are the countries where U.S. soldiers have died in the operation. (pg.A18)
DEATHS BY SERVICE: Number of dead and percentage of 510 total deaths.
 AVIATION DEATHS: One-fifth of all U.S. military deaths in Operation Enduring Freedom occurred in aviation incidents. This includes both accidental and combat deaths. ) (Source: Defense Department) (pg.A19 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



166 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; GEAR TEST HIGH-TECH BICYCLE TIRES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Jalopy Bikes With Techie Tires

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KRCMAR

 BODY:
BICYCLE lovers, thrifty as well as trend conscious, are pulling neglected 10-speeds from storage and readying them for the road again. (Let the environmentally aware bragging rights begin.) 
 These bicycles, made in the 1970s and 80s, used 27-inch wheels, which have been replaced with the smaller 700c wheels by road bike manufacturers. But a recent surge in sales of 27-inch tires suggests that the lowly steeds of yore are gaining new life as commuter bikes and weekend cruisers. 
 This time around, bike owners have more high-tech tires to choose from. The latest models feature increased thread counts in tire casings, and Kevlar and other space-age fibers to improve puncture resistance, as well as sophisticated rubber compounds that are durable, improve traction and enhance ride quality. 
 ''The manufacturers can't make the tires fast enough,'' said David Pierce, a senior buyer at Quality Bicycle Products, one of the country's biggest parts distributors, who reported a 200-percent increase in sales of the tires this year. 
 Ramona Marks and Ted Liscinski, carless volunteers at a nonprofit bike repair shop in Los Angeles, the Bicycle Kitchen, tested five pairs of tires while commuting and running errands around the Southland. 
 The tires tested, in the order they appear (left to right) in the photo at left:
 VITTORIA RUBINO TECH II $29.99 www.bikesomewhere.com. Mr. Liscinski's favorite, this tire found the sweet spot amid form, function and economy. The all-black tire's aesthetic was ''nice'' and ''clean.'' After riding over a ''bunch of potholes, it held up just fine.'' And ''the tiniest amount of tread'' ensures ''that if you are running over a piece of wet ground, you don't have to worry about slipping.''
 CONTINENTAL ULTRA GATORSKIN $34.99, www.downtownbicycles.com. Mr. Liscinski put the Gatroskin's reputation of flat protection to the test by running over glass, and days later reported ''no problems -- I haven't lost any air.'' With ''not much of a tread'' they were ideal for riders who ''want to go a little faster'' or for commuters who hate changing flats. His one complaint? ''They're expensive'' but ''they'll last quite a while if you don't skid.''
 PANARACER PASELA $17.99, www.nashbar.com. Ms. Marks prefers a slick tire, but she ''loved'' the Panaracer. It was ''easy to get on,'' and the Pasela's minimal tread provided a ''subtle'' but ''softer ride.'' ''Going over cracks in the pavement, I'm not fearful anymore.'' She also unintentionally rode over ''a lot of glass'' and ''they were fine.'' And she liked their appearance, which she described as ''pretty and classic.''
 SPECIALIZED ALL CONDITION ARMADILLO $50, www.specialized.com. Long synonymous with puncture-resistant tires, the Armadillo was ''really hard to get on,'' and Ms. Marks almost pinched the inner tube multiple times during installation. What drove her to persevere was the thought that once she got them on, she would have months of flat-free miles. On the road, she said, they were smooth and fast, and ''good for cornering.'' They ''reminded me why I don't want tread: because you're not competing'' with the bike.
 MICHELIN WORLD TOUR $15.95, www.bikemannetwork.com. Unlike some inexpensive tires that are difficult to install, the World Tour ''slid right on.'' With a deep tread, the tire is ''wider than normal'' and ''a little slower'' but appropriate for cyclists who live in places that receive regular rainfall, Mr. Liscinski said. The tan sidewall adds to the unit's retro appearance and would complement ''a bike with a basket.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The tires tested, in the order they appear (left to right) in the photo at far right: VITTORIA RUBINO TECH II: $29.99 www .bikesomewhere.com. Mr. Liscinski's favorite, this tire found the sweet spot amid form, function and economy. The allblack tire's aesthetic was ''nice'' and ''clean.'' After riding over a ''bunch of potholes, it held up just fine.'' And ''the tiniest amount of tread'' ensures ''that if you are running over a piece of wet ground, you don't have to worry about slipping.''
CONTINENTAL ULTRA GATORSKIN: $34.99, www.downtownbicycles.com. Mr. Liscinski put the Gatroskin's reputation of flat protection to the test by running over glass, and days later reported ''no problems -- I haven't lost any air.'' With ''not much of a tread'' they were ideal for riders who ''want to go a little faster'' or for commuters who hate changing flats. His one complaint? ''They're expensive'' but ''they'll last quite a while if you don't skid.''
PANARACER PASELA: $17.99, www .nashbar.com. Ms. Marks prefers a slick tire, but she ''loved'' the Panaracer. It was ''easy to get on,'' and the Pasela's minimal tread provided a ''subtle'' but ''softer ride.'' ''Going over cracks in the pavement, I'm not fearful anymore.'' She also unintentionally rode over ''a lot of glass'' and ''they were fine.'' And she liked their appearance, which she described as ''pretty and classic.''
SPECIALIZED ALL CONDITION ARMADILLO $50:, www.specialized.com. Long synonymous with puncture-resistant tires, the Armadillo was ''really hard to get on,'' and Ms. Marks almost pinched the inner tube multiple times during installation. What drove her to persevere was the thought that once she got them on, she would have months of flat-free miles. On the road, she said, they were smooth and fast, and ''good for cornering.'' They ''reminded me why I don't want tread: because you're not competing'' with the bike.
 MICHELIN WORLD TOUR: $15.95, www.bikemannetwork.com. Unlike some inexpensive tires that are difficult to install, the World Tour ''slid right on.'' With a deep tread, the tire is ''wider than normal'' and ''a little slower'' but appropriate for cyclists who live in places that receive regular rainfall, Mr. Liscinski said. The tan sidewall adds to the unit's retro appearance and would complement ''a bike with a basket.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATASHA CALZATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (79%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: QUALITY BICYCLE PRODUCTS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



167 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Sprint Sees Positive Side In Its Losses

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
Sprint Nextel, the troubled No. 3 wireless carrier, lost nearly a million customers in the second quarter. But the company says it lost some of them on purpose.
 Meanwhile its chief rivals, AT&T and Verizon Wireless, respectively gained 1.3 million and 1.5 million new wireless customers. As customers tighten their spending during rough economic times and when nearly nine out of every 10 Americans already own a cellphone, winning customers from a competitor is the only way to grow quickly. And at that task, analysts say, Sprint is struggling.
 Daniel R. Hesse, who has been chief executive of the company since January, said that Sprint had deliberately rid itself of some of those 901,000 customers. Mr. Hesse said Sprint tightened credit standards in order to focus on keeping dependable mobile phone customers who have the money to pay their monthly bills. ''We did it knowingly,'' he said. ''We are interested in quality, not quantity.'' Sprint said Wednesday that it now has 51.9 million customers. 
 Mr. Hesse, who appears in ads for Sprint, said the failure to attract new customers was because customers did not know that Sprint had improved.
 But the customer losses left some analysts pondering what Sprint's prospects are. ''It's fine to say you are getting rid of undesirable customers, but that means you have to make significant growth someplace else to make up for it,'' said Walter Piecyk, an analyst at Pali Research who covers wireless companies. ''It's a company in perpetual decline.'' 
 By some measures though, Mr. Hesse's strategy is working. Sprint lost 1.1 million customers in the first quarter. Sprint reduced churn -- the percentage of customers who drop service or go to a rival -- by 45 basis points, to 2 percent, in the second quarter, the best since Sprint merged with Nextel in 2005. But the company's churn is still a far cry from the 1 percent at AT&T and Verizon Wireless. 
 And it warned that there would be more customer defections in the coming months.
 Still, Mr. Hesse contended, ''we overdelivered,'' referring to improved profit margins resulting from cost cutting. 
 Despite that, Mr. Hesse acknowledged the fragile nature of Sprint's turnaround. ''We are not in a position to deliver sustained revenue growth, but we believe we have a good plan in place,'' he told analysts in a conference call Wednesday morning after announcing the company's second-quarter financial results.
 Sprint reported a loss of $344 million, or 12 cents a share. A year ago it earned $19 million, or one cent a share. Revenue in the quarter fell 11 percent to $9 billion, from $10.2 billion a year earlier. 
 The loss includes $149 million in pretax charges for severance, exit costs and asset impairments and other minor costs tied to its 2005 purchase of Nextel. Not counting one-time items, Sprint said it would have earned 6 cents a share.
 Mr. Hesse said the company's ''Simply Everything'' plan, a $100 flat fee plan that includes voice and data services, was popular with new and existing customers. And the Instinct handset, the company's answer to the iPhone, was offered first to existing customers and helped Sprint retain customers who otherwise might have left.
 But Mr. Piecyk, the analyst, wondered instead if Sprint was ''being managed for a potential sale, not growth.'' It is possible, Mr. Piecyk and other analysts said, that Sprint is hoping to sell or spin off assets not associated with the consumer business.
 Mr. Hesse declined to comment on whether he was readying the company for a sale. ''My view is to create a great company,'' he said. Still, he added, ''I don't have a crystal ball about what will happen down the line.'' 
 Sprint recently held talks with SK Telecom of South Korea to share information about mobile phones and other technology, according to people briefed on those talks. The two companies also discussed whether SK Telecom would consider a minority investment in Sprint -- about $5 billion -- but the discussions, which were held informally, have so far have not brought a cash infusion.
 Instead, Sprint said on Wednesday that it hoped to raise $3 billion by selling three million shares of convertible preferred stock. Sprint said it had $4.7 billion in cash and available credit and planned to reduce debt by $1 billion. At the same time Sprint continues to cut costs. 
 ''Sprint appears to be building/holding cash, arguably out of fears of a liquidity crunch in 2009,'' wrote Craig E. Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. While Mr. Moffett said that there were clear signs of improvement at Sprint, the company ''remains in need of major surgery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Inside Sprint Nextel's operation center in Overland Park, Kan. The company says it is focusing on dependable customers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON IPOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) CHART: Competition for Customers: Sprint Nextel lost 901,000 customers in its second quarter, while Verizon Wireless and AT&T's mobile business continued to grow. (Source: Pali Research) Chart details bar graphs for Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (96%); AT&T INC (86%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%)

PERSON: DANIEL R HESSE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



168 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3824 words

HEADLINE: 500: Deadly U.S. Milestone in Afghan War

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
Not long after Staff Sgt. Matthew D. Blaskowski was killed by a sniper's bullet last Sept. 23 in eastern Afghanistan, his mother received an e-mail message with a link to a video on the Internet. A television reporter happened to have been filming a story at Sergeant Blaskowski's small mountain outpost when it came under fire and the sergeant was shot.
Since then, Sergeant Blaskowski's parents, Cheryl and Terry Blaskowski of Cheboygan, Mich., have watched their 27-year-old son die over and over. Ms. Blaskowski has taken breaks from work to watch it on her computer, sometimes several times a day, studying her son's last movements.
''Anything to be closer,'' she said. ''To see what could have been different, how it -- '' the bullet -- ''happened to find him.'' 
For months, the Blaskowskis felt alone in watching their son die in an isolated and nearly forgotten war. And then, in June, the war in Afghanistan roared back into public view when American deaths from hostilities exceeded those in Iraq. In the face of an expanding threat from the Taliban, the conflict is becoming deadlier and much more violent for American troops, who three weeks ago reached their highest deployment levels ever, at 36,000.
June was the second deadliest month for the military in Afghanistan since the war began, with 23 American deaths from hostilities, compared with 22 in Iraq. July was less deadly, with 20 deaths, compared with six in Iraq. On July 22, nearly seven years after the conflict began on Oct. 7, 2001, the United States lost its 500th soldier in the Afghanistan war.
(The Pentagon says that 563 American service members have died in Operation Enduring Freedom, the umbrella term for the global American-led antiterror campaign that has the Afghanistan war at its center and includes deployments in the Philippines and Africa. Of those deaths, according to an analysis by The New York Times, 510 have occurred in Afghanistan or are directly linked to the war there.)
Now, a war that had long been overshadowed by the one in Iraq is back in public view, at the forefront of both news media attention and the presidential campaign. The use of the Afghanistan war for political purposes disheartens the Blaskowskis, they say, but has at least one positive aspect.
''The good thing about the heightened awareness now is that at least some of these soldiers' names are getting out there,'' Ms. Blaskowski said recently. ''If anything good is coming out of that media attention, it's that people see that they are truly human. It's not just numbers. It's actually brothers and sons and fathers. They're human.''
The numbers, as impersonal as they may be, are quickly mounting, and more families each week are joining the Blaskowskis in their grief.
During the first three years of the war, about two-thirds of all American casualties came under so-called nonhostile conditions -- illnesses, vehicle crashes and accidental discharges of weapons, for example.
But that pattern flipped in 2005. Since then, about 70 percent of American casualties in Afghanistan have occurred under hostile conditions, like small-arms fire, rocket attacks and, increasingly, improvised mines and bombs.
In 2007, 111 American service members were killed, the highest annual toll so far in the war. So far this year, 91 Americans have died, a rate faster than last year. At least 78 of those deaths have come in combat; by comparison, 50 were killed during the same period last year.
Though Afghan security forces have suffered the vast majority of fatalities in the war, exact numbers are hard to come by. The Defense Ministry said that nearly 600 Afghan soldiers were killed from March 2005 to March 2008, the only period for which it provided statistics. The Afghan Interior Ministry, which began recording police deaths in March 2007, said 1,119 police officers were killed from March 2007 to March 2008.
Late last month, the military released data showing that insurgent activity had soared, with attacks in eastern border regions up nearly 40 percent from last year.
''Make no mistake, NATO is not winning in Afghanistan,'' the Atlantic Council of the United States, a nongovernmental organization dedicated to fostering ties between North America and Europe, warned in a report in January. ''Unless this reality is understood and action is taken promptly, the future of Afghanistan is bleak.''
The report was actually one of the more positive assessments among a deluge of critical reports on the war's progress issued this year by international study groups.
Such dark warnings, along with years of low interest in the conflict among many Americans and even political candidates, have led the families and friends of fallen American service members to wonder whether they perished for a winning cause, a losing one or, worse, a meaningless one.
''It's like people forget about us being in Afghanistan; Larry would tell me that all the time,'' said David Rougle, whose brother, Staff Sgt. Larry I. Rougle, 25, of West Jordan, Utah, was killed in a Taliban ambush last October in Kunar Province. ''You always hear about Iraq, but you never hear about Afghanistan.''
''People have forgotten,'' Mr. Rougle said. ''There's a real war going on. People are dying all the time in Afghanistan.''
The War Begins to Change
On Oct. 10, 2001, three days after American and British warplanes began bombing Taliban and Al Qaeda targets in Afghanistan to open the war, Master Sgt. Evander E. Andrews, 36, was part of a military work crew building a runway at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, which was being used to stage American troops and warplanes.
Sergeant Andrews was a hard-working man who grew up on his family's farm in the small town of Solon in central Maine. ''He loved the farm and he loved the cows, and he'd come home from leave and go out in the barn and take a deep breath and say, 'Oh, that smells good!' '' recalled his mother, Mary Andrews. ''Now, who else would say that?''
As a boy, he had developed a fascination for trucks and other big equipment. He joined the military to further his goal of becoming a civil engineer and was assigned to the 366th Civil Engineer Squadron of the Air Force.
On that October day, a forklift was removing the tailgate of a large truck when the gate fell from the forklift's grasp and hit Sergeant Andrews, killing him. He became the first American fatality in the war.
It was a war of retaliation and pursuit. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Bush administration demanded that the Taliban government surrender Osama bin Laden, who was commanding the Qaeda network from Afghanistan. The Taliban's refusal prompted the start of the American bombing campaign on Oct. 7.
By that time, an American force numbering in the tens of thousands had been marshaled across a military theater stretching from the Indian Ocean to the Red Sea to fight the new war on terror, an amorphous campaign with Afghanistan at its heart. But during the first few months, the actual American presence within Afghanistan was sparse, with much of the fighting conducted by anti-Taliban opposition groups supported by American advisers on the ground and by coalition airpower.
Not only were most of the first 100 Americans to die in the war killed in accidents or illnesses rather than attacks, but almost half also died outside the main theater, across a regional network of supply bases and refueling outposts. It would be many months before combat deaths began to take a heavy toll.
Mary Andrews said it had been easier to deal with her son's death because it came as a result of an accident rather than from enemy fire.
''We were thankful that he died at the hands of his own men that he loved, and not at the hands of those who hated him and hated all Americans,'' she said. ''If someone out of hate killed him, it's kind of a double grief. But it wasn't someone out of hate. It was someone who loved him, someone who cared about him.''
''I'm not saying it's easy getting along without him,'' she continued, ''but it's easier to think about it that way.''
After the initial bombing campaign, Afghan militia forces backed by American and other foreign troops swept the Taliban from power and, by the end of March 2002, had driven most of the surviving Qaeda and Taliban fighters across the border into Pakistan or into hiding in southern Afghanistan.
Afghanistan then appeared to enter a period of relative stability. In April, President Bush made a speech promising a vast American-led reconstruction effort in the style of the Marshall Plan, and in the summer, a transitional administration was established under Hamid Karzai. American generals increased American troop levels in Afghanistan to about 9,700 by the end of the year, most with a mandate to hunt for the remnants of Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
In total, 11 Americans died in connection with the war in 2001, 49 in 2002, and 46 in 2003.
But meanwhile, the Taliban was quietly regrouping. Through recruitment drives in the Pashtun-dominated communities of southern Afghanistan and the madrassas of Pakistan, and low-key infiltration from Pakistan into southern Afghanistan, the Taliban began to rebuild its shrunken forces and prepare for a renewed jihad against Afghan and foreign troops.
Guerrilla attacks against American troops and their allies steadily increased throughout 2002 and 2003, and in 2004, the nature of the war, and of American casualties, began to shift. Nonhostile causes continued to inflict the majority of deaths that year, including the accident from American fire in eastern Afghanistan that killed Pat Tillman, the former safety for the Arizona Cardinals and arguably the most famous American casualty in the war. But an increasing percentage of soldiers was dying from insurgent gunfire, rockets and bombs.
One was Specialist Joseph A. Jeffries of the Army Reserve's 320th Psychological Operations Company. When Specialist Jeffries was deployed to Afghanistan in February 2004, he told his family little about the danger he was facing.
''He kind of led me to believe that it was more cushy than it was,'' said his wife, Betsy Jeffries, who lives in Beaverton, Ore. They had married shortly before his deployment, and she was pregnant when he shipped off. His obfuscation ''was his way of sheltering me,'' Ms. Jeffries said, adding that her husband had joined the military to improve people's lives.
Specialist Jeffries was sent to southeastern Afghanistan to work with Special Forces soldiers from Fort Bragg, N.C. Citing secrecy rules, military officials would not reveal the details of his assignments, though Special Forces units have often been engaged in dangerous tasks like hunting down the chief Taliban and Qaeda operatives.
As a psychological operations expert, Specialist Jeffries would have had a variety of duties with Special Forces teams, said Tina Beller, a spokeswoman for the Army's Civil Affairs and Psychological Operations Command at Fort Bragg. Such experts acted as liaisons between the Green Berets and local residents they encountered, and distributed leaflets and other information that discouraged support for the insurgency and urged support for the coalition.
On May 29, 2004, Specialist Jeffries was in a Humvee returning to his base in Kandahar Province from an undisclosed mission when a series of mines planted in a mountain pass exploded near his vehicle, Ms. Jeffries said. He and three other American servicemen, including a Navy Seal and two Green Berets, were killed. Specialist Jeffries was 21.
May 2004 was the beginning of a stretch of six months during which hostile acts were to blame for the majority of American deaths. Looking back, that period now appears to be something of a tipping point for American forces in the war. Nearly half of the 51 Americans killed that year died as a result of hostile action, up from about 37 percent in 2002 and 2003.
And the battle was about to get far deadlier for the Americans.
The Taliban Return
Back home, a sense of victory in Afghanistan, however premature or misguided, had taken hold, and the war had begun to fade from the American consciousness, eclipsed by the much larger, newer American-led effort in Iraq, which began in March 2003.
When Sgt. Michael J. Kelley, 26, of Scituate, Mass., announced in early 2005 that he was going to Afghanistan, members of his family were heartened that it was not Iraq, where the insurgency was already virulent and widespread, and the conflict seemed far more dangerous. Relief was a common response among parents and relatives of American soldiers deployed to Afghanistan.
''You don't hear as much about Afghanistan,'' said Sergeant Kelley's mother, Karen Kelley.
Sergeant Kelley was a quiet man who read a lot, liked to draw and talked about becoming a graphic artist when he had fulfilled his military obligations. Uninterested in college, he had joined the Massachusetts Army National Guard after graduating from high school and, in his civilian life, held a series of jobs including landscaper and cellphone salesman.
His mother maintained a brave face as her son left for Central Asia, accepting his assurances that he would be all right, but silently harboring a grim premonition that he would not return home.
Sergeant Kelley was deployed to a small, rugged Special Forces outpost in Shkin, in the eastern border province of Paktika, where the Green Berets had been in frequent combat with Taliban rebels. As a field artillery radar operator, his duty was to use radar to locate the source of enemy mortars and rockets to guide accurate counterfire.
On June 8, 2005, the base was hit with a barrage of mortars. But Sergeant Kelley had no chance to do his job. At the moment of attack, he was part of a team unloading a Chinook helicopter. The mortar hit the helicopter landing zone, spraying shrapnel and killing Sergeant Kelley and another soldier, Pfc. Emmanuel Hernandez, 22, of Yauco, P.R.
''We were just fortunate that we were able to have an open casket,'' Ms. Kelley said. ''It brought some kind of closure because we didn't have to wonder whether he was really in there. Other families aren't so lucky.''
The two deaths came amid a surge of fatalities. At least 27 Americans died that June, 25 from hostile causes, making it the deadliest month of the war up to that point for American service members. It remains the second deadliest month in the war for American troops, and the deadliest ranked by those who died in hostile conditions.
The month also saw the single deadliest attack of the war so far for Americans: the downing of a Chinook helicopter by an insurgent's rocket-propelled grenade, which killed all 16 service members on board. The men were on a mission to rescue a team of Navy Seals that had been reported missing in Kunar Province near the Pakistan border.
In all, 95 Americans died in Afghanistan in 2005, up from 51 in 2004, and for the first time in the war, hostile deaths in Operation Enduring Freedom outpaced nonhostile deaths. The year 2005 also saw a leap in the Taliban's use of homemade bombs -- improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.s, in military parlance -- most often buried in dirt roads. They were no less deadly than they were proving to be in Iraq.
The terrain was ideal for laying traps and hiding bombs. Many American troops were based in mountainous areas that lacked paved roads, and were vulnerable to mines buried in the dirt roadways. They were often forced to conduct their patrols on foot, walking from village to village along goat paths and dried riverbeds, and through narrow rocky passes susceptible to ambushes. (This year, for the first time, more than half of all hostile deaths have been attributed to improvised explosive devices.)
Beginning in 2006, the United States would begin to share the burden of casualties with its foreign partners in greater numbers than ever.
That year, NATO expanded its range of military operations in Afghanistan, and thousands of British, Canadian and Dutch troops under NATO command -- supplemented by Australian, Estonian, Danish and Romanian soldiers -- replaced the several hundred American troops that had been trying to fend off a return of the Taliban to its former strongholds in the Pashtun heartland of the south.
As the newly arriving troops began to enter the most insecure areas, they encountered a reconstituted Taliban.
At least 39 British troops and 36 Canadian troops died in 2006; in the four previous years, the British had suffered five fatalities and the Canadians seven.
The death toll remained high for American troops, who, by the end of 2006, numbered about 22,100, most concentrated in the east and southeast. That year, 87 Americans were killed, most in insurgent attacks, and an additional 111 in 2007.
Many of the American casualties during the last two years came where American troops, with the support of the Afghan army, were pushing into areas that were under the sway of Taliban insurgents.
''The areas we moved into had not had a large constant U.S. presence,'' said Command Sgt. Maj. Jimmy Carabello of the 10th Mountain Division. His battalion, the First Battalion, 32nd Infantry Regiment, had responsibility for the security of a large mountainous swath of eastern Afghanistan from the spring of 2006 to the summer of 2007.
Over the course of its deployment, the battalion established a constellation of bases and outposts in a series of rugged valleys that had served as corridors for insurgents moving men and supplies from western Pakistan. The 10th Mountain Division soldiers also built roads, schools and medical clinics, and brought government services to villages that had seen none, Sergeant Major Carabello said. The improvements stimulated local economies and began to reconnect the central government to the people of the region.
But the gains came at great sacrifice to the troops. Twenty of his battalion's soldiers were killed in the campaign, most in fighting against the Taliban, and more than 120 were wounded, Sergeant Major Carabello said.
''It was a tough fight,'' he said. ''It was hard, tough soldiering.''
Sgt. First Class Jeffrey D. Kettle, 30, of Texas City, Tex., was deployed with the Second Battalion, Seventh Special Forces Group into this same region in early 2006. It was his second rotation in Afghanistan. Sergeant Kettle was a construction and demolition engineer, his family said, and had hoped to join the elite Delta Force.
He joined the Army after graduating from high school, following several relatives into the armed services, including his grandfather, who had participated in the D-Day landings in World War II. When he was a boy, he was fascinated by the military. He and one of his brothers, Clayton, would don camouflage clothes and face paint and wage mock battles against imaginary guerrillas in their neighborhood.
''They would be in the bushes, in trees, on roofs,'' recalled their mother, Cynthia Kettle. ''I would get phone calls. 'Cindy, don't panic or anything, but Jeffrey is on the roof again.' He had no fear.''
Like so many other service members deployed to war zones, he tried to shield his parents from the harsher realities of his life. But during one phone conversation he revealed to his mother that the Taliban was growing stronger.
''He told me, 'Mom, they're rebounding.' That was the word he used, I believe,'' Ms. Kettle recalled. ''He said, 'It's going to get worse before it gets better.' So I knew things weren't as tame as it was put out to be.''
On Aug. 12, 2007, a bomb buried by the roadway exploded near Sergeant Kettle's vehicle in the eastern Afghanistan province of Nangarhar, killing him and two other American soldiers.
''There weren't I.E.D.s when Jeff was there the first time,'' Ms. Kettle said. ''And now they're getting all the things that Iraq has and they're bringing in those heinous ways of killing. As I gather, this I.E.D. was ridiculously large. It's the easiest and most cowardly way of doing things.''
A Search for Meaning
Louis Brewster's son, Sgt. Bryan A. Brewster, 24, of Fontana, Calif., died with nine others in May 2006 after their Chinook helicopter developed a mechanical failure and plunged into a deep ravine in Kunar Province. Ever since, Mr. Brewster has scoured the news media in a determined search for news of his son's distant war.
''Outside the Pat Tillman thing, people don't remember it,'' Mr. Brewster said. ''As a father it angers me some. It angered me when he was there, especially since Iraq gets all the attention, Iraq gets all the money.''
But for Mr. Brewster and many other parents and relatives, the sense of a forgotten loss is more than personal. Many are convinced that the public's neglect of the war in Afghanistan is actually hurting the soldiers' chances of success.
''It is my sense that it is a pivotal time in this thing,'' Mr. Brewster said. ''I think it's a valid war, but because it doesn't get the attention, it doesn't get all it needs. Consequently, I think the guerrilla war will be going for a long time.''
NATO commanders have said they need at least three more brigades -- more than 7,500 troops -- to turn the conflict decisively in the American-led coalition's favor. And numerous analysts, international study groups and nongovernmental organizations have warned that in the absence of a redoubled commitment by the United States' allies, the American-led coalition's chances of success look poor.
''Afghanistan is not lost, but the signs are not good,'' said the International Crisis Group, a nonpartisan group that tries to prevent global conflict, in a February report. ''As a reinvigorated insurgency threatens the gains that have been made, and Western capitals, pressured by publics unwilling to accept military casualties, begin to explore endgames and exit strategies, the risk of losing Afghanistan is very real.''
On the video clip from last year that the Blaskowskis have seen so many times, Sergeant Blaskowski is standing calmly with two other men at the dirt-filled bastions of their outpost, near the Pakistani border. They are wearing full body armor and their backs are to the camera as they survey the valley below, a hideout of Taliban insurgents and the scene of some of the fiercest fighting American troops had experienced in Afghanistan since the invasion in 2001.
The camera cuts away from the men, then the sound of gunfire erupts, sending soldiers scrambling for cover. In the next shot, the gunfire has stopped and a lieutenant standing near the gabions screams for a medic. A soldier has been hit: Sergeant Blaskowski. A medevac helicopter swoops in to evacuate him to a larger base, but he is declared dead en route.
The images have provided Ms. Blaskowski with ''some peace,'' she said, yet in the same breath she admitted to a hope that her son would come back someday.
''I think it isn't true, and he will call in the middle of the night like he used to,'' she said. ''We would sleep lightly to listen for that blessed phone call.''
''Now,'' she added, ''we don't sleep well at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff Sgt. Matthew D. Blaskowski in summer 2007
he was killed on Sept. 23, 2007.
THE ROSTER OF THE DEAD.: Photographs of the American service members who died in Afghanistan, Pages A17-19. (pg.A1)
EVANDER E. ANDREWS: On Oct. 10, 2001, Sergeant Andrews became the first American fatality in the war in Afghanistan. (MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE)
FAREWELL TO FATHER: Ethan Andrews, 9, was comforted at the burial of his father, Sergeant Andrews, by Maj. Tom Westall, at Arlington National Cemetery. Sergeant Andrews, raised on a farm in Solon, Me., had been assigned to the 366th Civil Engineer Squadron of the Air Force in Idaho. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MATTHEW D. BLASKOWSKI: Sergeant Blaskowski's killing, captured in a journalist's video, has been viewed by his parents over and over. (COURTESY OF CHERYL BLASKOWSKI)
BRYAN A. BREWSTER: Sergeant Brewster, 24, of Fontana, Calif., died in May 2006 after the helicopter in which he traveled crashed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A18)
MICHAEL J. KELLEY: Sergeant Kelley, 26, of Scituate, Mass., died June 8, 2005, in a mortar attack on his base in Paktika Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILITARYCITY.COM)
JEFFREY D. KETTLE: Jeffrey D. Kettle Sergeant Kettle, 30, of Texas City, Tex., a construction and demolition engineer killed by a bomb in August 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE KETTLE FAMILY)
LARRY I. ROUGLE: Sergeant Rougle, 25, who often asked if people at home had forgotten the Afghanistan war, was killed last October. (pg.A19) CHARTS: THE GROWING TOLL: U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan grew through the second half of 2007 and continued at the same pace this year. Combat deaths rose, and more involved improvised explosive devices. These charts show deaths of soldiers directly involved in the Afghanistan war for six-month periods. The 2001 deaths are for December only.
COMBAT DEATHS
DEATHS BY I.E.D.S. (Improvised explosive devices)
A WIDER WAR: The Afghanistan war is part of Operation Enduring Freedom, which also encompasses military operations in the Horn of Africa, the Philippines and elsewhere. Here are the countries where U.S. soldiers have died in the operation. (pg.A18)
DEATHS BY SERVICE: Number of dead and percentage of 510 total deaths.
 AVIATION DEATHS: One-fifth of all U.S. military deaths in Operation Enduring Freedom occurred in aviation incidents. This includes both accidental and combat deaths. ) (Source: Defense Department) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



169 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Ole! This Spanish Summer

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
 Even before the Beijing Olympics begin on Friday, it's clear which country has run away with the 2008 sports summer: Spain. With class and majesty, the Spanish have swept all before them.
 Rafael Nadal, he of the ridiculous angled forehand and bullet backhand, has taken the French Open and Wimbledon and, soon, the No. 1 world ranking in men's tennis from Roger Federer. The Wimbledon final was a demonstration of raw power overcoming silken perfection that will live in memory.
 At the European Championship, the Spanish soccer team of Luis Aragones marched to the country's first major title in 44 years with displays of breathtaking mobility and precision. 
 Marshaled by the imperious Carles Puyol at the heart of an impenetrable defense, the Spanish were irresistible. I've seldom witnessed a more complete humiliation of an opponent than the Spanish dismemberment of the lumbering Germans in the final.
 Most recently, Carlos Sastre has won the Tour de France, adding to his compatriot Alberto Contador's victory in the Giro d'Italia. Spanish domination of cycling has contained its measure of doping scandals, but remains extraordinary.
 It's interesting that this victory march from a nation of 45 million people has occurred just as the Spanish economy has gone into a free fall.
 I don't know if there's a connection between the two phenomena. Perhaps Spain's acute sense of honor -- Hemingway called honor as real a thing to a Spaniard as ''water, wine or olive oil'' -- has been piqued into victorious defiance by economic humiliation.
 Certainly, the repeated demonstrations of sports prowess have afforded Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the prime minister, some breathing space.
 Spain, which accounted for a third of job creation in the euro zone over the past five years, is now overborrowed and overbuilt. The country is reeling in a mortgage morass familiar to that of the United States.
 But national triumphalism, stronger for once than contentious regionalism, has tended to crowd out distress. After the Tour de France, El Pais trumpeted that ''It seems France only organizes sporting events so that Spain can win them.'' Take that, haughty neighbor!
 I confess, I've been moved by the Spanish victories. George W. Bush nixed the country after Zapatero withdrew Spanish troops from Iraq, but below the American radar Spain's rise -- current difficulties notwithstanding -- has been one of the most striking European success stories of recent decades.
 Seeing Puyol rise defiant like a wounded bull after being fouled in the European Championship, or watching Nadal will himself with mind and muscle beyond Federer's Wimbledon domination, I could not help sensing a unique Spanish pride and reflecting on my own feelings about the country.
 We all have our Mediterranean favorites. Mine has long been Italy. When I lived in Italy in the 1980s, a friend said something that stuck in my mind: ''You know, the Italians have the art of life, and the Spanish have the art of death.''
 There's truth in that. Italy sees Spain's dangerous honor with its irrepressible instinct for beauty. Spain fights a civil war; Italy, late-born, and awkwardly so, as a modern nation, accommodates itself to differences.
 De Chirico was an Italian painter, but his harsh delineation of light and shadow are more of Spain's brutal demarcations than Italy's subtle marriages of the elements. In Italy, life is dedicated to pleasure; in Spain, it is never quite devoid of the tragic.
 Living in Rome, it seemed to me that the city was a waif in an extravagant gown. Its thing was luxury not exertion. Its greatest gift, all ambition exhausted, was beauty. Its streets were a labyrinth of delight, in contrast to the broad, straight avenues of Madrid straining toward order.
 Loving Italy, I found it hard to make room for Spain. Oh, I went to the corridas and found this confrontation of man and beast -- perhaps the last left to us -- overwhelming in its splendor. That I could only glimpse all I did not grasp about the bullfight -- all that the Spanish aficionados knew in their blood -- made it the more haunting.
 Perhaps such knowledge resides in these remarkable Spanish victories: the visceral sense that sports may be ennobling but they are also a fight to the death. Nadal had to kill something in Federer to overcome him.
 That, and the knowledge that victory is lonely. An Italian artist, Antonio Recalcati, told me that after a boozy lunch in New York, the matador Antonio Ordonez once said to him: ''Antonio, you're an artist; you can go to your studio now. But I'm a matador, where do I go?'' 
 The road to this victorious Spanish summer has been lonely. The Spanish also had to kill a complex in themselves.
 Where Italy overcomes frivolity for force is on the soccer field. The Spanish had not beaten them in a major competition for decades when they confronted their nemesis in the European Championship quarterfinals. Watching that victory, one of darting artistry over desperate defensiveness, I felt something in me give:
 Perhaps, after all, there's room for Spain and Italy in the loves of a single life. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CYCLING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RANKINGS (76%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); SOCCER (71%); SCANDALS (68%); JOB CREATION (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (77%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (58%); ROGER FEDERER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) SPAIN (96%); ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



170 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Inflated Egos in a Deflated Market

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
THE first season of ''Million Dollar Listing,'' a reality series on Bravo that follows real estate agents in Hollywood and Malibu, Calif., was broadcast two years ago, and already feels like material from a time capsule. Spending much of its time on lingering shots of canyon villas and beachfront condos, the show captured a giddy period in which a cash-strapped seller could list a shabby 1960s contemporary in the Hollywood Hills for close to $1.3 million, get an offer above asking price, and still debate whether to make the deal.
 The current housing market, of course, is much gloomier, especially in Los Angeles, where inventory is up by roughly 60 percent compared with two years ago and the median listing price is down 20 percent from last year. Considering how emotionally fraught the subject of residential real estate has become, most fans of ''Million Dollar Listing'' probably figured the show, which was off the air last year, had gone the way of the subprime loan. 
 But this week a second season made its debut, and the channel has bravely stuck with the name and the format instead of steering the show in a more topical direction, like ''Million Dollar Foreclosure.'' Still, one wonders how a series that owed its popularity in large part to the go-go real estate market, and the national housing obsession that that market created, will be affected by the mortgage crisis.
 ''Obviously, the market is different today,'' said Andy Cohen, the senior vice president for programming and production at Bravo. ''But the cost of real estate in Malibu is still ridiculous. It's like, O.K., this house isn't selling for $17 million, it's been reduced to $14 million.'' 
 The series does show signs of retooling, however. For starters, the setting has moved away from Hollywood, where the market has cooled, to traditionally recession-proof areas farther west, like Beverly Hills and Bel Air, along with Malibu. Gone are the agents at the Hollywood offices of ReMax, a scrappy group that included Ray and Dia Schuldenfrei, an older, married team with a Burns and Allen repartee. 
 Season 2 revolves instead around three agents: Chad Rogers, Josh Flagg and the lone holdover from Season 1, Madison Hildebrand. None of them are over 30, and all are as focused on landing the next deal as they are with themselves. Mr. Rogers spends an inordinate amount of time on his hair and is given to making statements like, ''I have a gorgeous girlfriend because image is everything in real estate.''
 Mr. Flagg, meanwhile, is a man-child remarkably at ease with numbers containing lots of zeros. ''Put in two, three million, sell this for nine -- guaranteed,'' he coolly tells one client. 
 (Now 22, Mr. Flagg may be less comfortable in moneyed circles after he was arrested last Thursday and accused of grand theft, several months after the season's final episode was shot. The Los Angeles Police Department would not provide more details, but according to the celebrity gossip blog TMZ, Mr. Flagg is accused of stealing high-priced art in his capacity as an estate broker. Bravo had no comment, and David M. Baum, a lawyer for Mr. Flagg, said his client denies the accusations against him.) 
 Beverly Hills or not, market realities are evident in the first episode. One seller, an interior designer looking to unload his renovated condo, wants to party like it's 2005, and Mr. Rogers must persuade him to be realistic about the asking price. The seller pouts, then pulls the listing. According to Mr. Hildebrand, unrealistic sellers are common these days, as are price reductions and slow turnarounds on high-end homes, even in Malibu. ''Now the average time is eight months,'' he said with a sigh the other day. 
 But the most noticeable change to ''Million Dollar Listing'' seems to be a shift in focus. In Season 1, the homes were the stars, while the agents were supporting players. Now it's the reverse. Instead of tight shots of marble bathtubs, we get a tight shot of Mr. Hildebrand's abs as he works out on the beach and tells us that he has ''recently gone through a transition where I'm not close-minded to anything, be it a man or a woman.'' 
 Randy Barbato, the show's executive producer, said this change predated the sharp market downturn of the last several months and any diminishment of Americans' interest in real estate that might have resulted. He just wanted more personal drama this season, and he pointed out that every episode still includes a deal. 
 Still, he acknowledged, the move to the city's wealthiest enclaves does reflect the way property lust has evolved. Back when nearly anyone could get a loan, he said, ''it used to be that you could almost touch the shingles'' on houses shown on programs like his. Now, the attraction is more about fantasy. ''Some properties should be there to long for, and not to have,'' he added. That is why, this season, ''the property is bigger and more delicious,'' he said.
 This is true to a point. In the premiere, Mr. Flagg gets a tip that Jay Bernstein, the former manager of Farrah Fawcett and Suzanne Somers, has died, and he shrewdly scores the exclusive listing to his house, a five-bedroom, seven-bath Spanish-style mansion that makes the Hollywood bungalows from Season 1 look like shacks. But house-obsessed viewers may wish for less of the subplot involving Mr. Flagg's dentist, Dr. Sam, who tries unsuccessfully to buy the place for $3 million, and more shots of the interior, especially after learning that Clark Gable once used the place as a love nest.
 If the show's creators were concerned that viewers may have lost some of their appetite for ''real estate porn,'' as Mr. Cohen calls it, they needn't have worried. With credit markets tight as a drum and many homeowners struggling to keep their houses, fleeting images of a hilltop mansion in Beverly Hills only provoke greater longing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNDER CONTRACT
The new season of ''Million Dollar Listing'' stars Josh Flagg, left, and Madison Hildebrand, below, pictured with current listings this week.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The walls and ceiling in an office, right, are covered with chalkboard paint. The desk is made of a wing from a World War II plane
the chair once belonged to a military dentist.
The lamps were made from old medical machinery
the chrome bar stool, designed by Philippe Starck, and the vintage chest are from the Conran Shop
the vintage phone and computer console were purchased on eBay
the doll sculpture is by Max Salvo, a friend of Mr. Emmerich's.
The library coffee table, left, is made of a missile from Iraq and holds an Arabs-and-Americans chess set commissioned by Mr. Teall. (On the Arab side, pieces include an oil rig, Saddam Hussein and a suicide bomber, and on the American side, an exploding World Trade Center, President Bush and Rambo.)
The English bedroom, below, has Charles and Diana dolls in the fireplace
the master bedroom, left, is decorated with imagery of political figures.
The mural in the master bedroom, right, was inspired by Chinese propaganda posters. The Mao sculptures, clocks and dictator nesting dolls were purchased in a Shanghai market and on eBay.
In the terrace hallway, right, are a birdcage in the shape of the White House and a statue of Arnold Schwarzenegger inspired by Rodin's ''The Thinker''
the diorama, far right, depicts John F. Kennedy's assassination.
Mr. Teall had originally planned to put a lifesize waxwork statue of Mr. Emmerich under the stairs. After discussing news coverage of Pope John Paul II's death with Mr. Emmerich, though, he decided it would be much funnier to depict the pope reading his own obituaries, above.
The dining room chairs, right, were designed by Richard Rogers and Renzo Piano. The door, a replica of one from the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Moscow, was made of wood and given a metal finish.
 A chair on the terrace, above, was made of Shell oil cans by children in Ghana. Benches are laser-cut with the words ''insurgents'' and ''infidels.'' Skylights to the living room form the floor.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GAVIN JACKSON/ARCAID, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (71%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); GHANA (79%)

TITLE: Million Dollar Listing (TV Program)>; Million Dollar Listing (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



171 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Freddie Mac's Big Loss Dims Hopes of Turnaround

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
The gloom over the nation's housing market deepened on Wednesday as Freddie Mac, the big mortgage finance company, reported a gaping quarterly loss and predicted that home prices would fall further than previously projected.
 The announcement disappointed those hoping that the housing market might be bottoming out and heightened worries that the government could be forced to rescue Freddie Mac and the other mortgage finance giant, Fannie Mae. The news also signaled that mortgage rates were likely to rise. 
 In filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Freddie Mac said that ''there is a significant possibility that continued adverse developments'' could cause the company to fall below government-mandated capital levels. In an interview, the company's chief financial officer, Anthony S. Piszel, said that warning did not imply the company believed that risk was likely or imminent.
 Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which lubricate the housing market by buying mortgages from banks and other lenders and touch nearly half of all the nation's home loans, have been severely weakened by the slump in the housing market. The downturn has forced millions of Americans out of their homes, cost Wall Street hundreds of billions of dollars and helped depress the broader economy. 
 ''Basically, things are still bad,'' said Steven D. Persky, chief executive at Dalton Investments, a $1 billion fund in Los Angeles. ''Freddie Mac is telling us that nobody really knows how much worse they will get.''
 The results disappointed analysts who had hoped Freddie Mac might provide enough good news to point a way out of the economic darkness. The company's results contained few rays of light.
 Freddie Mac announced $2.8 billion in credit expenses associated with increased housing delinquencies and foreclosure rates, and said that the value of mortgage-backed securities it holds had declined by $1 billion. The company lost $821 million during April, May and June, compared with a profit of $729 million during the comparable period a year earlier. 
 ''Home prices declined faster than anticipated in the first half of 2008,'' Richard F. Syron, Freddie Mac's chairman and chief executive, said during a conference call with analysts. Executives believe the housing market is only about halfway through its downward cycle, he said.
 ''At this point neither we nor anyone else can predict when the national housing market will stop falling,'' Mr. Syron said. 
 Executives said they expect the firm's losses would increase through at least 2009, and that home prices would continue to decline by as much as an additional 9 percent.
 Freddie Mac's stock price fell by 19 percent on Wednesday, to close at $6.49.
 Executives said they would shore up Freddie Mac's capital reserves by cutting the firm's quarterly dividend by 80 percent to 5 cents per share, pending board approval. The company also reiterated its commitment to raising at least $5.5 billion from investors. 
 However, as the company's stock price has declined, raising those funds has become increasingly expensive. The company's entire worth as measured by the stock market was $4.2 billion as of Wednesday afternoon.
 ''How do you raise $5 billion when the market thinks your entire company is only worth $4 billion?'' asked Sean Egan, managing director of Egan-Jones Ratings, an independent credit ratings firm. ''Investors need to believe good news is around the corner to give a company more money, and Freddie Mac has said there is more bad news to come. We don't think they're going to be able to raise it.''
 In an interview, Mr. Piszel said he believes the company is currently undervalued and that the current market capitalization will not undermine the firm's ability to raise money. 
 If Freddie Mac is unable to raise capital, it could spark a political and financial crisis. Last month, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. proposed giving federal officials the ability to pump billions of dollars into Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae by buying shares in the companies. That plan became law in a bill signed by President Bush last week.
 Mr. Paulson has said he hopes to never use those powers. At the end of June, Freddie Mac held $2.7 billion more than what regulators require.
 But if Freddie Mac continues to suffer losses and is unable to raise funds from investors, the company could fall below capital requirements, potentially forcing the government to pour in funds or take control of the firm. 
 In the call with analysts, executives said their confidence in the ability to raise capital stemmed from a variety of factors, including improving profit margins and accounting rules that would allow them eventually to reverse some of their current losses.
 ''We believe we can manage to maintain our capital position for some time,'' said Mr. Piszel in the interview. In Wednesday's earnings release, the company offered extensive data showing how its capital levels would fare under various scenarios.
 ''We're not going to rush to raise capital because we don't have to,'' said Mr. Piszel. ''We have disclosed the range of pain we can take, and we think it demonstrates the company is positioning itself to withstand severe stress.''
 Analysts said the quarterly results indicate that mortgage rates would most likely continue to rise because Freddie Mac expects to scale back growth in how many mortgages it purchases.
 ''Freddie and Fannie have been propping up the mortgage market by continuing to buy larger numbers of loans,'' said Paul Miller of the Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group, an investment firm in Arlington, Va. ''If they start pulling back, mortgage rates are going to start climbing to north of 6.5 percent. People will start panicking at 7 percent.''
 The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage as of July was about 6.5 percent, according to Freddie Mac.
 The company's results on Wednesday also contained some small bits of good news. 
 Freddie Mac said revenue grew by more than 10 percent from last quarter, to $1.69 billion, including a 92 percent increase in net interest income to $1.5 billion. And executives indicated that profit margins on the loans they were now buying were at much higher levels than in previous years.
 ''They are the only game in town right now, and if Freddie and Fannie can make it out of this they'll be enormously profitable down the road,'' said David Dreman of DWS Dreman Concentrated Value, a $16 billion investment fund that owns about 10 million shares of Freddie Mac.
 ''Now the big question is, what will they look like when they make it through this crisis, and how bad will it get until it's over?'' Mr. Dreman added. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Syron, front, of Freddie Mac: ''At this point neither we nor anyone else can predict'' when housing will rebound.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)
 Freddie Mac's chief executive, Richard Syron, told analysts that home prices had declined faster than anticipated.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHAN SAVOIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



172 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Bush Prods China on Rights on Eve of Games but Opposes Criticism at Olympics

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul.

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
In remarks delivered on the eve of the Olympic Games in Beijing, President Bush said Thursday that he had ''deep concerns'' about basic freedoms in China and he criticized the detention of dissidents and believers, even as he praised the extraordinary gains China had made since he first visited more than three decades ago. 
 Mr. Bush's comments distilled and recast earlier statements critical of China's record on human rights. But with his speech, which also addressed other issues in Asia and was presented only hours before he was to fly to Beijing, the president sent a rebuke to China's leaders, though a measured one. 
 ''I have spoken clearly and candidly and consistently with China's leaders about our deep concerns over religious freedom and human rights,'' he said. ''And I have met repeatedly with Chinese dissidents and religious believers.''
 ''The United States believes the people of China deserve the fundamental liberty that is the natural right of all human beings,'' Mr. Bush said. ''So America stands in firm opposition to China's detention of political dissidents, human rights advocates, and religious activists.''
 The White House released a draft of the speech on Wednesday in part to draw attention to Mr. Bush's concerns for the rights of Chinese, a spokesman said. But the speech mentioned neither the Olympics nor the specific abuses that have resulted in new international criticism of the Chinese government.
 With Mr. Bush's planned attendance at the Games prompting debate and criticism, the White House has sought to strike a balance between expressing support for advocates of greater political and personal freedom in China and cultivating cooperation with China's government on a host of trade and security issues.
 Mr. Bush has faced pressure from Congress and from international advocacy groups to speak more forcefully or risk being seen as lending credibility or respectability to a government that restricts the freedoms that the president frequently extols. The White House, however, chose not to do so in Beijing, either by making a similar address or by meeting with dissidents or others facing political persecution.
 In Seoul, South Korea, on Wednesday, though, Mr. Bush said that the Olympics should not be used to criticize government constraints on worship and free speech and did not need to be because he had expressed his criticism to Chinese leaders throughout his presidency.
 ''My message has been the same,'' he said, when asked about the Olympics at an appearance with President Lee Myung-bak in a garden at the Blue House, the ancient compound in Seoul that is the office of South Korea's president. ''You should not fear religious people in your society as a matter of fact, religious people will make your society a better place that you ought to welcome people being able to express their minds.''
 He added, ''And to the extent that people aren't able to do that and people aren't able to worship freely is, you know, I think is a mistake.''
 In none of Mr. Bush's remarks has he directly addressed what advocates have called a pre-Olympic crackdown on dissent and potential protest. Nor has he mentioned Tibet, whose freedom movement and spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, have strong support in the United States and elsewhere.
 Even when critical, Mr. Bush has reflected a pragmatic view of China and has offered a far more lenient judgment of its internal affairs than those of other authoritarian governments, including Myanmar, Belarus, Iran and Zimbabwe. In his remarks on Thursday, for example, he bluntly called on Myanmar's military leaders to release the opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and all other political prisoners.
 He first visited China in 1975 when his father, the first President Bush, was the chief American representative to the country after President Nixon's opening to the Chinese.
 He recalled the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution, the swarming bicycles, the stultifying sameness of people's clothes. And yet, as he has in interviews and comments leading up to the Games, he evoked a sense of both nostalgia and awe for the gains China has made since then. And he suggested that greater freedoms economically, politically and personally would speed the country's progress.
 ''We speak out for a free press, freedom of assembly, and labor rights not to antagonize China's leaders, but because trusting its people with greater freedom is the only way for China to develop its full potential,'' he said. ''And we press for openness and justice not to impose our beliefs, but to allow the Chinese people to express theirs.''
 The United States and China have complex relations, and Mr. Bush has sought from the start of his presidency in 2001 ''to set our relationship on a sturdy, principled footing,'' he said. He credited that strategy for allowing him to speak more forcefully on rights, even if most often in private.
 He cited the mutual benefits of trade and diplomatic cooperation in security, as has been the case with talks to end North Korea's nuclear program. He also noted an easing of tensions over Taiwan.
 ''Ultimately, only China can decide what course it will follow,'' he said. ''America and our partners are realistic, and we are prepared for any possibility. I am optimistic about China's future. Young people who grow up with the freedom to trade goods will ultimately demand the freedom to trade ideas, especially on an unrestricted Internet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



173 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Board Proclaims Confidence in Chief

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Huge losses, falling market share and a plunging stock price have not cost General Motors' chairman, Rick Wagoner, the support of his board.
 In a rare public expression of confidence, G.M.'s leading outside director, George M. C. Fisher, said Wednesday that the board still believed that Mr. Wagoner and his management team were ''the right guys'' to lead the troubled automaker.
 ''We are absolutely convinced we have the right team under Rick Wagoner's leadership to get us through these difficult times and on to a bright future,'' Mr. Fisher said in an interview. 
 His comments came after a two-day meeting of G.M.'s board that followed one of the most dismal quarters in the automaker's 100-year history.
 G.M. said on Friday that it lost $15.5 billion in the second quarter because of sharply lower sales in the United States and charges for job cuts, plant closings and the declining value of its used sport utility vehicles.
 Since the earnings report, speculation has grown that Mr. Wagoner's job as G.M.'s chairman and chief executive is in jeopardy.
 But Mr. Fisher, who serves as presiding director among G.M.'s 13 outside board members, said the rumors were unfounded.
 ''In yesterday's board session, there was unanimity with respect to our unequivocal support of Rick and our team,'' he said.
 Mr. Wagoner did not ask for a vote of confidence from the board, nor did he need to, Mr. Fisher said.
 Instead, the board felt a need to ''set the record straight'' on the future of Mr. Wagoner, who has been C.E.O. since 2000.
 ''I'm reading too much stuff in the papers these days that is wrong,'' said Mr. Fisher, a G.M. director since 1996 and the retired chairman of Eastman Kodak. ''It's a distraction to the board and a distraction to management.''
 G.M. has foundered despite a broad overhaul in 2006 and last year's settlement of a historic, cost-cutting contract with the United Automobile Workers union.
 The company's United States sales have dropped 18 percent this year, as a weak economy and $4-a-gallon gasoline have driven consumers away from large vehicles into more fuel-efficient cars.
 G.M.'s stock, which traded at $40 a share last October, has dropped to about $10 as investors worry that the automaker may run short on cash during the current downturn.
 Last month, Mr. Wagoner outlined a broad series of cost cuts, asset sales and plans for debt offerings to improve G.M.'s liquidity by $15 billion by next year.
 Mr. Fisher said the plan should enable G.M. to remain solvent as it continues to revamp its product lineup.
 He added that G.M. was not in any danger of filing for bankruptcy protection. 
 ''The answer is no, absolutely not,'' he said. ''It's our job to make sure that doesn't happen.''
 While G.M. is burning through about $1 billion in cash each month, analysts say they believe the automaker can raise enough money to operate through 2009.
 ''The company has a year of cash and probably will raise another year of cash with the actions it has taken,'' said John Casesa of the consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group. ''Bankruptcy is not a near-term concern.''
 But G.M.'s continued losses have caused some industry insiders to wonder about Mr. Wagoner's future.
 This year, the promotion to president of Frederick A. Henderson, formerly chief financial officer, stirred speculation that he was in line for the chief executive's job.
 Mr. Fisher said, however, that Mr. Wagoner, along with Mr. Henderson and G.M.'s product chief, Robert A. Lutz, had staked out a strategic path for the automaker's recovery.
 ''I feel we are doing the right things,'' he said. ''Eleven of our last 13 vehicles have been cars or crossovers, and those weren't dreamed up in March of this year because of gas prices.''
 The recent G.M. board meeting focused specifically on future product plans, including the company's coming global compact car, called the Cruze.
 Mr. Fisher said the board had been ''extremely involved'' in product decisions, and were holding weekly telephone conferences to augment their regular board meetings.
 ''We have some pretty astute people on this board,'' he said. ''You have to take into account that Rick and his team are taking some really significant actions.''
 But Mr. Fisher said that G.M. was slow to respond to economic conditions that have led to what is likely to be the worst year for United States auto sales in more than a decade.
 ''Did we not adequately anticipate the rapid increase in gas prices? Probably,'' he said. ''In retrospect, we didn't act fast enough.''
 After sales began collapsing in late spring, the company announced plans to reduce its pickup and S.U.V. production by 300,000 vehicles. 
 Mr. Fisher declined to criticize G.M.'s decision to invest heavily in large trucks and S.U.V.'s in recent years. The vehicles were a major source of corporate profits at the time, and popular among American consumers.
 ''It looked to be the sweet spot in the market at the time,'' he said. ''I'm just glad we have that investment behind us because it enables us to concentrate on the cars now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Wagoner, the chairman and chief executive of G.M.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN F. MARTIN FOR GENERAL MOTORS)
 A General Motors plant in Warren, Mich. It has been a tough year for workers and shareholders.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); CLOSINGS (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



174 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Break With Bush

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
This 30-second advertisement for Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, will be broadcast in crucial states, according to the campaign. It is called ''Broken.'' 
 PRODUCER McCain campaign media team
 THE SCRIPT An announcer says: ''Washington's broken. John McCain knows it. We're worse off than we were four years ago. Only McCain has taken on big tobacco, drug companies, fought corruption in both parties. He'll reform Wall Street, battle big oil, make America prosper again. He's the original maverick. One is ready to lead: McCain.''
 ON THE SCREEN Black-and-white images of the White House, the Capitol and the interior of the floor of the House of Representatives -- with lawmakers in motion -- flash on the screen. Then a profile shot of Mr. McCain is followed by a gas pump with its numbers turning upward. The screen fades to black momentarily, and then, everything is in color. The next scenes show Mr. McCain talking to voters beside his Straight Talk Express bus, climbing into his campaign plane and at a town-hall-style meeting with the stripes of an American flag in the background. The words ''The Original Maverick'' appear on the screen at the end.
 ACCURACY Although the McCain campaign said it stood by the contention in the commercial that ''we're worse off than we were four years ago,'' Mr. McCain has not echoed that assessment publicly. At a Republican debate in January, he said, ''I think you could argue that Americans over all are better off, because we have had a pretty good prosperous time, with low unemployment and low inflation and a lot of good things have happened.'' During his four terms in the Senate, Mr. McCain has burnished his reformist credentials on some issues. He was a leader of the effort to pass a bipartisan campaign finance reform bill that imposed new limits on political contributions. But Mr. McCain, who is sometimes referred to as a maverick, has not always voted against business interests or broken with his party. Although the advertisement says he would ''battle big oil,'' his support of expanded offshore oil exploration would seem to suggest otherwise.
 SCORECARD This commercial has Mr. McCain implicitly breaking with President Bush, by saying that Americans are worse off now than four years ago. In doing so, and portraying himself as a maverick, Mr. McCain is trying to distance himself from an unpopular Republican administration, and from Washington, at a time when a souring economy and high gasoline prices could pose a threat to him. Mr. McCain has been in the Senate for two decades, a fact that could undermine that maverick message. The advertisement strikes a more positive tone than Mr. McCain's other recent commercials, and does not refer to his likely opponent, Senator Barack Obama.
 MICHAEL FALCONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); CORRUPTION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



175 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner Profit Falls 26%, Partly on Lower AOL Subscriber Fees

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Second-quarter earnings at the media conglomerate Time Warner fell 26 percent on declining subscriber fees at its AOL online unit and lower ad revenue at the Time publishing business, the company said Wednesday. 
 It affirmed its full-year financial targets after revenue rose at its film, cable and networks segments.
 The company, based in New York, said that net income was $792 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with $1.07 billion, or 28 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Excluding one-time items, profit rose to 24 cents a share, from 22 cents a share last year, when gains from the sale of assets bolstered earnings.
 The adjusted result was a penny better than analyst expectations, according to Thomson Financial.
 Revenue rose 5 percent, to $11.56 billion, surpassing Wall Street's estimate of $11.46 billion.
 The AOL online business remained a burden on the company's bottom line. Subscription revenue fell 29 percent, pushing operating income down 36 percent. AOL scrapped fees for its e-mail service in favor of an ad-supported revenue model two years ago. The service still has 8.1 million subscribers.
 But ad revenue rose only 2 percent, to $530 million, in the quarter. Display advertising fell 14 percent, as automotive, telecommunications and financial services companies curbed spending in a slowing economy, the chief executive, Jeffrey L. Bewkes, told investors in a conference call.
 Mr. Bewkes called the second quarter a low-water mark and said he expected over all and display advertising growth rates at AOL to improve in the second half.
 Time Warner has made no secret of its plans to sell AOL to focus on content production. Mr. Bewkes said the company had ''made the key decisions that will enable us to run AOL's access and audience businesses separately beginning in 2009.''
 The Internet service provider EarthLink has been named as a potential bidder for the dial-up access business. Both Yahoo and Microsoft are thought to be interested in AOL's Web sites, which could bolster either company's viewer traffic and ad revenue.
 Time Warner previously announced it would sell the 84 percent of its cable operations that it still owns to shareholders later this year, giving Time Warner $9.25 billion from a special Time Warner Cable dividend. Mr. Bewkes said the spinoff was on pace to close by year's end.
 Shares of Time Warner fell 5 cents, to $14.83, Wednesday.
 Time Warner still expects earnings from continuing operations for the year of $1.07 to $1.11 a share, excluding any proceeds from the sale of a unit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (74%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (74%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); TWC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%)

PERSON: JEFF BEWKES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008



176 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Not Settling a Lawsuit

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Note to victims of accidents, medical malpractice, broken contracts and the like: When you sue, make a deal.
 That is the clear lesson of a soon-to-be-released study of civil lawsuits that has found that most of the plaintiffs who decided to pass up a settlement offer and went to trial ended up getting less money than if they had taken that offer. 
 ''The lesson for plaintiffs is, in the vast majority of cases, they are perceiving the defendant's offer to be half a loaf when in fact it is an entire loaf or more,'' said Randall L. Kiser, a co-author of the study and principal analyst at DecisionSet, a consulting firm that advises clients on litigation decisions. 
 Defendants made the wrong decision by proceeding to trial far less often, in 24 percent of cases, according to the study; plaintiffs were wrong in 61 percent of cases. In just 15 percent of cases, both sides were right to go to trial -- meaning that the defendant paid less than the plaintiff had wanted but the plaintiff got more than the defendant had offered.
 The vast majority of cases do settle -- from 80 to 92 percent by some estimates, Mr. Kiser said -- and there is no way to know whether either side in those cases could have done better at trial. But the findings, based on a study of 2,054 cases that went to trial from 2002 to 2005, raise provocative questions about how lawyers and clients make decisions, the quality of legal advice and lawyers' motives. 
 Critics of the profession have long argued that lawyers have an incentive to try to collect fees that are contingent on winning in court or simply to bill for all the hours required to prepare and go to trial.
 ''What I would want them to look at was whether or not the lawyers had a strong financial incentive to go to trial,'' said Cristina C. Arguedas, a criminal defense lawyer in Berkeley, Calif., when told of the study. ''I'm not suggesting the answer, because I don't know, but that would be my question.''
 The study, which is to be published in the September issue of the Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, does not directly answer Ms. Arguedas, but it does find that the mistakes were made more often in cases in which lawyers are typically paid a share of whatever is won at trial.
 On average, getting it wrong cost plaintiffs at about $43,000; the total could be more because information on legal costs was not available in every case. For defendants, who were less often wrong about going to trial, the cost was much greater: $1.1 million. 
 ''Most of the time, one of the parties has made some kind of miscalculation or mistake,'' said Jeffrey J. Rachlinski, a law professor at Cornell who has studied how lawyers and clients decide to go to trial and who is co-editor of the journal. ''The interesting thing about it is the errors the defendants make are much more costly.''
 The study's authors have analyzed some data from New York and, after a review of 554 state court trials in 2005, have found parties to lawsuits making the wrong decision at comparable rates.
 The findings suggest that lawyers may not be explaining the odds to their clients -- or that clients are not listening to their lawyers. 
 ''It's entirely possible that the attorneys are not giving adequate advice,'' said Mr. Kiser, who is also a lawyer but is not practicing. ''An attorney could advise a client that they have a strong defense to enforcement of a contract, but that is not the same thing as forecasting what the likely outcome at trial would be.''
 As part of the study, which is the biggest of its kind to date, the authors surveyed trial outcomes over 40 years until 2004. They found that over time, poor decisions to go to trial have actually become more frequent.
 ''It's peculiar if any field is not improving its performance over a 40-year period,'' Mr. Kiser said. ''That's a troubling finding.''
 Law schools do not teach how to handicap trials, nor do they help develop the important skill of telling a client that a case is not a winner. Clients do not like to hear such news.
 ''Most clients think they are completely right,'' Michael Shepard, a lawyer at Heller Ehrman in San Francisco. A good lawyer has to be able to tell clients that a judge or jury might see them differently, he continued. ''Part of it is judgment and part of it is diplomacy.''
 Several lawyers were dismissive of the study, noting that the statistics mean nothing when contemplating a particular case, with its specific facts and legal issues, before a specific judge. They stressed the importance of a lawyer's experience.
 But the study tried to account for that possibility and found that factors like the years of experience, rank of a lawyer's law school and the size of a law firm were less helpful in predicting the decision to go to trial. More significant was the type of case.
 For example, poor decisions by plaintiffs to go to trial ''are associated with cases in which contingency fee arrangements are common,'' according to the report. ''On the defense side, high error rates are noted in cases where insurance coverage is generally unavailable.''
 The findings are consistent with research on human behavior and responses to risk, said Martin A. Asher, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania and a co-author. For example, psychologists have found that people are more averse to taking a risk when they are expecting to gain something, and more willing to take a risk when they have something to lose.
 ''If you approach a class of students and say, I'll either write you a check for $200, or we can flip a coin and I will pay you nothing or $500,'' most students will take the $200 rather than risk getting nothing, Mr. Asher said. 
 But reverse the situation, so that students have to write the check, and they will choose to flip the coin, risking a bigger loss because they hope to pay nothing at all, he continued. ''They'll take the gamble.''
 The third co-author of the study was Blakeley B. McShane, a graduate student at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Avoid a trial, Randall Kiser advises. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: The Cost of Going to Trial: A study of lawsuits in California found that lawyers and clients in civil cases often decide to go to trial when they would have been much better off settling. The study looks at cases in which a settlement was considered, but rejected in favor of arbitration or trial. Chart details COST OF REJECTING A SETTLEMENT. (Source: Journal of Empirical Legal Studies) (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); WRITERS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



177 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL' (R, 1:35) Stuffed with empty sound bites from the likes of Jessica Simpson and Paris Hilton, this fabulously inept documentary assembles a hodgepodge of impressions about our national quest for physical perfection. Zigzagging from eating disorders to music videos to Eve Ensler chatting about -- what else? -- designer vaginas, the writer and director, Darryl Roberts, draws neither breath nor conclusions. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'THE ANIMATION SHOW' (No rating, 1:30) More than two dozen animated shorts, made in a variety of mediums to varying degrees of success and/or silliness, make up the fourth edition of this generally worthwhile omnibus feature. (Nathan Lee) 
 'BAGHEAD' (R, 1:28) Whatever your opinion of mumblecore, the weirdly named indie subgenre that the writing and directing team Jay and Mark Duplass helped invent, there is no doubt that the Duplass Brothers have sophisticated psychological radar trained on the shallow, crabby, uncomfortably recognizable characters in their second film. 
 (Stephen Holden)
 'BOY A' (No rating, 1:40) Andrew Garfield's wrenching portrayal of an ingenuous 24-year-old man belatedly starting an adult life under a new name after serving 14 years in a juvenile prison for a heinous crime addresses complicated issues of character and social attitudes in a punitive society. (Holden)
 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott) 
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives.
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DAYS AND CLOUDS' (No rating, 1:55, in Italian) Silvio Soldini's sad, grown-up film about a long-married couple in crisis suggests that Italy's middle class is as much under siege as that of the United States. In both countries, it appears, job security isn't what it used to be, and corporate downsizing is plunging more and more affluent families into abrupt financial tailspins. (Holden)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Holden)
 'GONZO: THE LIFE AND WORK OF DR. HUNTER S. THOMPSON' (R, 1:58) Alex Gibney's documentary is a thorough and fascinating illumination of its subject, the journalistic iconoclast who died in 2005. (Scott)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Pelman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'IN SEARCH OF A MIDNIGHT KISS' (No rating, 1:38) Lightly sweetened and just a touch bitter, Alex Holdridge's romantic comedy about two Los Angeles souls (Scoot McNairy and Sara Simmonds) who hook up on Craigslist (''Misanthrope seeks misanthrope'') treads familiar if appealing ground. (Dargis)
 'JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH' (PG, 1:32) This preposterous and sloppy homage of sorts to Jules Verne should be seen, if at all, in the 3-D version, so you can duck and shriek when Brendan Fraser spits toothpaste off the screen. (Scott)
 'THE LAST MISTRESS' (No rating, 1:54, in French) An enthralling, often raw inquiry into cursed desire from the French writer and director Catherine Breillat, based on a 19th-century novel by Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly. A mesmerizing Asia Argento plays the mercurial courtesan who won't say no, and the luscious newcomer Fu'ad Ait Aattou plays the noble libertine who can't. (Dargis)'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden) 
 'THE ORDER OF MYTHS' (No rating, 1:20) A wise and soberly affecting documentary from Margaret Brown about the separate but unequal Mardi Gras festivities that take place each year in Mobile, Ala., a city in which the celebrations of the children of slave owners and the children of slaves are as divided as their views on race. (Dargis)
 'SIXTY SIX' (PG-13, 1:33) In this dolorous British comedy, a 12-year-old boy sees his dreams of an elaborate bar mitzvah jeopardized by England's triumphant march toward the 1966 World Cup Final. Leaning heavily, if inoffensively, on ethnic stereotypes, the movie charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. (Catsoulis)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis) 
 'SWING VOTE' (PG-13, 2:00) A pleasant muddle about life, liberty and the pursuit of Budweiser starring Kevin Costner as a good ole drunk whose vote will decide the next presidential election. Directed by the relative newcomer Joshua Michael Stern, the film has a Red State setup and a serious case of the blues. (Dargis) 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden) 
 'TRANSSIBERIAN' (R, 1:50) This handsomely remodeled variation on a cherished genre you might call the mystery-train movie skillfully manipulates familiar tropes: innocents abroad; ominous, glowering foreigners; conspiracy and duplicity; erotic intrigue. Until it fizzles in an anticlimactic train crash, it is extremely entertaining. (Holden)
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)
 Film Series
 SALVADOR DALI: CONSUMER/CONSUMED (Monday, Wednesday and Thursday) This Museum of Modern Art series devoted to films that touch on the career of Salvador Dali continues with some surprising choices, including John Farrow's 1940 remake of ''A Bill of Divorcement'' (Monday), the film that motivated Dali to observe that ''Adolphe Menjou's mustache is a Surrealist.'' And he would know! Offered on Wednesday: Lynn Reynolds's 1925 Tom Mix vehicle ''Riders of the Purple Sage,'' standing as an example of the Hollywood films that Dali preferred to more ''pretentious'' European movies, and ''The White Sheik,'' a 1952 film by a director Dali admired, Federico Fellini. Thursday brings Alfred Hitchcock's ''Rear Window'' (no excuse needed for that one) and Darren Aronofsky's daring (and unfairly dismissed) 2006 romantic phantasmagoria, ''The Fountain.'' Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. 
 (Dave Kehr)'8 1/2' (Wednesday) Speaking of Fellini, the Museum of the Moving Image continues its summertime series of free outdoor screenings at Socrates Sculpture Park with a projection of the maestro's autobiographical fantasy of 1963, starring Marcello Mastroianni as a filmmaker (wearing Fellini's signature Fedora) who finds himself stuck for an idea for his next project. A live music performance by Le Noze di Carlo precedes the screening at 7 p.m. Socrates Sculpture Park, 32-01 Vernon Boulevard, at Broadway, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us. (Kehr)THE FILMS OF AZAZEL JACOBS (Monday through Thursday) The son of one of the avant-garde's epic collagists, Ken Jacobs, Azazel Jacobs emerged as the critics' favorite at Sundance this year with his narrative feature ''Momma's Man,'' which will be released later this summer. In the meantime, the BAMcinematek is offering a mini-retrospective of the younger Mr. Jacobs's developing career, which includes his 2005 film ''The GoodTimesKid'' (Monday); his 2003 ''Nobody Needs to Know'' (Wednesday); and two additional films he has chosen, Aki Kaurismaki's ''Vie de Boheme'' (Tuesday) and ''Rude Boy'' (Thursday), a rockumentary about the Clash directed by Jack Hazan and David Mingay. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 HOLLYWOOD HOME MOVIES (Monday) Selections from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' collection of amateur films by Hollywood figures, as organized by Lynne Kirste. Among the personalities represented will be Humphrey Bogart, Gary Cooper, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., Steve McQueen and Lauren Bacall; some clips will be accompanied by commentary from family members. Academy Theater, 111 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (888) 778-7575, oscars.org, $5. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ANIMATION (79%); ANIMATED FILMS (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); WRITERS (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); LITERATURE GENRES (70%); POETRY (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); EATING DISORDERS (54%)

PERSON: JESSICA SIMPSON (59%); HEATH LEDGER (59%); PARIS HILTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



178 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 472 words

 BODY:
SECURITIES INQUIRY Citigroup agreed to buy back $7.3 billion of auction-rate securities and pay $100 million in fines to settle with regulators, and Merrill Lynch made a similar offer. 
 POOR CHOICES Most plaintiffs who forgo a settlement offer and proceed to trial end up getting less money than if they had taken the offer, according to a study of civil lawsuits. [C1.]
 SLUGGISH MONTH Retailers generally reported weak sales results for July, although some discounters, including Wal-Mart, did relatively well as consumers shopped for bargains. [C1.]
 MEASURE OF SUCCESS Victor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian oligarch, is taking steps to achieve recognition and present himself as an international figure. [C1.]
 SLOWDOWN IN EUROPE After 17 years of uninterrupted growth, Britain's economy is moving closer to a recession as falling house prices and rising living costs squeeze consumers. [C1.]
 Concerned about high energy prices and slower global growth, officials at the European Central Bank left the benchmark interest rate unchanged. [C7.]
 MARVEL LAWSUIT The billionaire financier Ronald Perelman, below, agreed to pay $80 million to settle a lawsuit that accused him of helping to divert $553.5 million in notes when he controlled the Marvel Entertainment Group, the comic book publisher. [C2.]
 EARNINGS FALL The Fortress Investment Group reported second-quarter profit that fell 59 percent as the strain on the credit markets hurt gains. [C2.]
 PROFIT GAIN The Lenovo Group, China's biggest personal-computer maker, said its first-quarter profit rose 65 percent on higher sales in its home market. [C2.]
 MIXED ECONOMIC NEWS A gauge of future home sales rose higher than expected in June, but the government reported that jobless claims increased last week. [C2.]
 LOSS WIDENS Blockbuster, the largest movie-rental chain, reported a second-quarter loss, but it predicted it would earn a profit for the year. [C2.]
 REVISING MILEAGE REWARDS Shares of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, fell after the airline, which created its frequent-flier program 25 years ago, said it would raise fees and mileage requirements for upgrades and free trips. [C4.]
 A TASTE FOR LUXURY Mars Snackfood, which makes M&M's, has created a premium line of the candy that comes in five flavors and is sold in a 6-ounce package for $3.99. Advertising. [C4.]
 ETHANOL REDUCTION DENIED The Environmental Protection Agency rejected a request to reduce the federally mandated quota for the use of ethanol in cars. [C4.]
 SHOWING VULNERABILITY Toyota said that its worldwide net income for the first quarter fell 28 percent, its biggest slide in profit in about five years. [C7.]
 SEEKING A BUYER The sale of Dresdner Bank by Allianz, the German insurer, is proving problematic as tight credit markets make finding a buyer at the right price difficult. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); RECESSION (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); COST OF LIVING (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (62%); AIRLINES (61%); ETHANOL (60%); CONFECTIONERY (60%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (51%); COMPUTER MAKERS (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); MARS INC (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ALLIANZ SE (56%); MARVEL ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (55%); LENOVO GROUP LTD (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); ALV (FRA) (56%); ALV (BIT) (56%); FIG (NYSE) (55%); 0992 (HKSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511199 ALL OTHER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



179 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Declines to Reduce the Quota for Ethanol in Cars

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency rejected on Thursday a request to cut the federal government's quota for the use of ethanol in cars, concluding, at least for now, that the national goal of reducing oil use trumps any effect on food prices from making fuel from corn.
 The agency's administrator, Stephen L. Johnson, said the mandate was ''strengthening our nation's energy security and supporting American farming communities,'' and that the mandate was not causing ''severe harm to the economy or the environment.'' 
 The effect of the decision on fuel and food markets is hard to predict. Farmers argued that the jump in corn prices was driven not so much by the demand for ethanol as by growing demand for grain-fed meat around the world and by their own higher costs for diesel fuel.
 Recently, high oil prices have led to even more ethanol production than the quota required. On the other hand, rising corn prices made some ethanol operations unprofitable, especially as oil prices started to fall.
 The E.P.A. said in its decision that a change in the quota would probably have no effect on production in the next 12 months. If it did reduce ethanol production, the most likely effect, it said, was that the price of corn, recently trading at a little over $5 a bushel, would drop about 30 cents a bushel, and that gasoline would cost another penny a gallon. 
 But food producers said that high prices for feed had already increased the price of meat, and that they were cutting the size of herds and flocks, meaning that supplies would soon be lower, and prices higher. 
 ''The food inflation that you've seen now, at least in the meat and poultry sector, probably is mild compared to what may be coming in the future,'' said Joel Brandenberger, president of the National Turkey Federation. Food inflation is now about 8.1 percent a year.
 He and others said they would go to Congress to try to seek a reduction in the tax break for ethanol and a cut in tariffs on ethanol imports. 
 Legislators from farm states applauded the ruling.
 The debate over the quotas is a sign of unease over government intervention in energy and food markets and technologies and the unintended consequences that might ensue. 
 The request to cut the quota had come from Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, a leading cattle state as well as a bastion of the oil business. He made the request in late April and the E.P.A. was supposed to respond in three months, but the agency said it had delayed its decision to evaluate more than 15,000 comments it received. 
 The rules that the E.P.A. reconsidered on Thursday set a floor for ethanol use, not a ceiling. The floor was not a firm one, because the E.P.A. could issue a waiver if the requirement became ''onerous.'' 
 Renewable fuel use in 2004 was 3.5 billion gallons, according to the agency -- mostly ethanol, which is a form of alcohol, but also some biodiesel, which contains oil from crops. The goal for this year had been 5.4 billion gallons but last December, with the price of oil zooming up, Congress raised the renewables quota to 9 billion gallons for this year. It also laid out a schedule of annual increases that would bring it to 11.1 billion gallons in 2009 and 36 billion gallons in 2022. 
 The agency has not completed an analysis of the future effect of the mandate, but livestock producers are concerned about what happens as the goals triple. Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, has called for even higher goals.
 The existing target requires not only more ethanol but also new cars and new filling station equipment. 
 The long-term hope, backed with generous government incentives, is to make motor fuel from cellulosic, or nonfood, sources. Private companies are feverishly pursuing technologies for using wood chips, wheat straw, waste plastic and even municipal garbage to make ethanol and other liquid vehicle fuels. But none of these is commercially practical now. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Motiva Enterprises stores ethanol in Pasadena, Tex., after mixing it with gasoline and before sending it to gas stations. The law requires that renewable fuels be added to gas to cut greenhouse gas emissions and ease the nation's dependence on foreign oil.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG HARTLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Gov. Rick Perry of Texas had requested a lower quota.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE JACKSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (94%); ALCOHOLS (93%); BIOFUELS (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEATS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); POULTRY (77%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



180 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: College and Company Link Up To Lure Lucrative Foreigners

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Like a lot of other universities, Northeastern has Barnes & Noble running its bookstore, and Pizza Hut, Wendy's, Starbucks and Taco Bell selling food in the student center.
But Northeastern has taken outsourcing one giant step further.
In an unusual partnership that began last fall, the university is using Kaplan Inc., a for-profit education company, to find students for -- and help run -- an academic program for international students to spend a year on campus, improving their English and acclimating to American higher education, before starting one of Northeastern's degree programs.
Although Northeastern is the first American university with such a partnership, the model, now common in Britain, is gaining interest in the United States. Some critics worry that if such partnerships catch on widely, the quest for lucrative international students could undermine academic standards, if the profit motive leads programs to admit unqualified students or use low-paid, poorly trained instructors.
''In a way, these programs bringing international students in for an introductory year are like what we would do with kids from the inner city, but nobody's doing that for profit,'' said Philip G. Altbach, an international education expert at Boston College. ''I do wonder what happens to academic values in all of these market-driven efforts.'' 
In recent years, international students, generally full-paying, have become big business at American universities and around the world. Kaplan, a subsidiary of The Washington Post Company, is known in the United States mostly for its test-preparation business. But the company has huge international-education operations, including teaching English as a second language, with a worldwide network of agents to tap into this market.
The president of Northeastern, Joseph E. Auon, has committed to making the university an international institution. University officials say their program with Kaplan, known as Global Pathways, lets them make sure international students are adequately prepared before they start degree programs, which can be difficult to ascertain from a foreign transcript.
Patrick Plunkett, executive director of international initiatives, said he felt strongly that to ensure academic integrity, Northeastern employees should teach the classes, rather than handing the teaching off to Kaplan, as the company proposed, and as it does at similar programs it runs at British universities.
''The value added here is being engaged with the university, even before you're in a degree program,'' he said. The university handles teaching, curriculum and admissions. But Kaplan does everything else.
''We're great at the teaching and learning part, but Kaplan has more expertise in the wraparound services,'' said Christopher E. Hopey, a vice president at Northeastern.
Kaplan markets the program overseas and recruits the students, guided by explicit admissions criteria, Northeastern officials said, based on the education system in the home countries. Kaplan staff members meet students at the airport, help them find places to live -- usually with a family at first -- connect them with volunteer conversation partners, and organize parties and outings to Boston Celtics games.
Neither Northeastern nor Kaplan would discuss their financial arrangements; students in the program pay about $18,000 for the extra year of schooling.
Most students this year are from China and Korea. Mr. Plunkett said the university had been pleased with their caliber. Students who successfully complete the program are guaranteed admission to Northeastern degree programs. Most of the students are preparing for master's degree programs in business, engineering or computer science.
Larry Green, the Kaplan executive who helped set up the program before leaving the company this spring, said he began looking into expanding into the United States after the company's program at the University of Sheffield became popular.
''The reality on any major college campus is that the lines between for-profit and not-for-profit are blurring, as these worlds come together, with companies renting mini-refrigerators or running the bookstores,'' Mr. Green said. ''What universities are really good at is the creation and delivery of undergraduate and graduate curriculum. Kaplan's skill is understanding the needs of foreign students and the complexities and differences of higher education systems.''
Last month, Oregon State University announced a joint venture with INTO University Partnerships, a privately held British firm, for a program to start in fall 2009. INTO, which also runs similar programs at several British universities, is in discussions with other American universities.
At Oregon State, INTO and the university will split the tuition from the program -- probably the university's out-of-state rate, almost $19,000.
Sabah Randhawa, executive vice president of Oregon State, said the university had, for several years, wanted to double its international student body, but has lacked ''the resources to develop the infrastructure to sustain recruiting overseas.''
Oregon officials said the program will help diversify the student body, as well as bring in $15 million to $25 million dollars a year, while allowing the university to retain academic control. They cited the experience at INTO's first partner, the University of East Anglia in Norwich, England, where they said the program grew to 540 students in two years, with two-thirds continuing into the degree programs.
But at some British universities, instructors fought INTO programs, saying they were worried that the company would be more interested in profit than in teaching. Some Oregon State faculty were also wary.
''In November, they told us they were thinking about this great program that wouldn't cost the university anything and would generate millions of dollars,'' said Deborah Healey, who until recently directed the university's English Language Institute.
But even though the institute faculty, with their long years of experience, have been promised they will remain university employees, new instructors hired for the program, she said, are likely to be INTO employees, with less college teaching experience.
Mr. Randhawa said that while the university will definitely play a role in hiring instructors for the program, it has not yet been decided whether they will be INTO or university employees.
Northeastern's students learn nuts and bolts of American college life like how to open a bank account, how to write a critical essay and what constitutes plagiarism in the United States. Students get instruction in written and oral English. They take courses like science and math, where they mix with Americans and earn credits to get a head start in their degree programs.
Kaplan also helps with unexpected problems. ''After two weeks here, I found my home stay family had bedbugs,'' said Joanne Shin, a Korean student. ''The Kaplan people helped me go to the doctor, and offered me a new home stay.''
Karl Reynolds, an English instructor, said only one student had failed a class and been required to repeat it before moving into a degree program.
Although the first group included mostly students seeking graduate degrees, this fall, Mr. Plunkett said, most of the 150 students will be undergraduates. They will still mostly come from Asia, but with more from Turkey, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Latin America. Eventually, Northeastern hopes to expand the program to 400 students.
In one English class this summer, where students were doing presentations on mass media, Weijun Zhan, a lively 21-year-old from China, talked about the ''Jerry Springer'' show, showing clips of its trademark brawls. ''Wow, it's so fresh to me,'' Mr. Zhan said. ''I never saw something like this.''
Other students applauded him, congratulating him on choice of topic and enthusiastic presentation. But when the teacher asked for criticism, they had that, too.
Rui Chen fired off a list of nine English usage errors Mr. Zhan had made. ''It's aunt, not auntie,'' she said. ''Say, 'the exact' answer, not 'the exactly' answer.''
Ms. Chen seemed at ease in English.
''At the beginning I could barely speak English.'' said Ms. Chen, 20, who lived with an American family at first but now has moved to an apartment with other students from the program. Her improved language skills are partly attributable to a fortunate pairing; the man who volunteered to be her conversation partner became her boyfriend. ''He corrects me all the time,'' she said.
Many of the students said their main goal in the program was greater fluency in spoken English. ''Many Chinese students, we can read and write English, but in daily life it's hard to communicate,'' Wen Zhou Pan said.
To smooth social contact with others who speak a different language, the students were encouraged to adopt American names. Mr. Pan chose Peter. A ''Friends'' fan dubbed himself Chandler.
Mr. Green, the Kaplan executive, said the company picked Northeastern for the program's American debut because of its growing reputation, its location in university-rich Boston and, especially, its co-op program, in which students have job placements built into their education.
For foreign students, American work experience was a big draw.
''I knew Northeastern had co-op, and that's important to me, because I don't want to waste my time,'' Mr. Zhan said. ''It sounds like I'm wasting time, to be here for a whole year before being in a degree program. But this is the biggest economy, the most important country in the world. So I want to use my time to learn American thinking.''
Global Classrooms: Articles in this series examine the globalization of higher education.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Weijun Zhan spoke about ''Jerry Springer'' in a class that is part of the Global Pathways program at Northeastern University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (85%); TACO BELL CORP (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (85%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



181 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Sales in China Raise Lenovo Profit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
The Lenovo Group, the PC maker, said Thursday that its quarterly profit rose 65 percent as strong sales in China and emerging economies offset weakness in the United States.
 Profit in the quarter that ended June 30 was $110 million, or $1.25 a share, the company said. Sales rose 10 percent, to $4.2 billion. 
 ''Despite a softening global economy, we delivered solid gains in worldwide sales, PC shipments and profits,'' the company chairman, Yang Yuanqing, said in a statement.
 Mr. Yang expressed confidence that the Beijing Olympics, opening Friday, would help the company's efforts to establish a global brand. Lenovo is the only Chinese company among 12 worldwide partners of the International Olympic Committee and is supplying computer equipment and technicians to the Games.
 ''The global spotlight is shining on Lenovo, our products and our people,'' the chief executive, William J. Amelio, said in a conference call.
 Sales in greater China rose 22 percent to $1.7 billion. China accounted for 41 percent of sales.
 The strength of its home market has helped to drive Lenovo's expansion. But it faces competition from the industry leader, Hewlett-Packard, and No. 2 Dell. Both are trying to expand in China.
 China's economy is slowing slightly but still is expected to expand this year by at least 9 percent. 
 Lenovo's sales in the United States and the rest of the Americas fell 4.8 percent, to $1.1 billion.
 Lenovo has said it expects to avoid a serious hit from the slowdown because it depends on the American market for only a small percentage of its sales.
 Still, weakening American demand and increased competition squeezed Lenovo's gross profit margins to 14.1 percent, from 14.8 percent in the year-earlier period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); SHIPMENTS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



182 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Signs Point To a Slower Sales Season For Retailers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
With belts firmly tightened, Americans sought out more bargains and cheaper goods in July, leaving the nation's retailers bracing for a painful back-to-school shopping season.
 Sales figures released Thursday revealed a country that is rapidly ratcheting back its spending habits even as it piles up credit card debt and abandons midtier shopping mall mainstays that were booming just a year ago.
 The trouble in the retail sector, including a prediction from Wal-Mart Stores that sales would worsen in August, erased much of this week's stock market gains. The Dow Jones industrials, which had its best session in four months on Tuesday, shed nearly 225 points, closing down 2 percent at 11,431,43, as investors drove down shares of companies that depend on loose pocketbooks. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.8 percent, to 1,266.07, and the Nasdaq composite closed at 2,355.73, down almost 1 percent. 
 A big loss by the giant insurer American International Group, reported after the market's close on Wednesday, rekindled concerns about the credit markets and hurt financial stocks. The price of oil settled at $120.02, up from Wednesday's close of $118.58, unnerving some investors.
 Fears about a cutback in consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic growth, have lingered for months. 
 But a series of reports this week offered a reminder that as the effects of the economic stimulus payments fade, businesses will have few buffers against consumers struggling with higher fuel prices, a deep housing slump and trouble on Wall Street.
 ''What's lying ahead is of grave concern on the part of the retailers,'' said Ken Perkins, the founder of Retail Metrics, a research firm that tracks the industry. ''We're looking to find where other sources of income will come for consumers to spend, but it's difficult to tell.''
 Sales rose slightly last month at the nation's major chain stores, but much of the increase came at down-market wholesale clubs. Even discount retailers' business waned: Wal-Mart, the behemoth of the discount industry, reported a 3 percent increase in sales but fell short of analysts' estimates of a 3.4 percent increase. The company's shares finished the day down 6.25 percent at $56.96.
 ''The rebate spigot was turned off the second week of the month, so I think all the retailers saw a drop-off in traffic,'' Mr. Perkins said. ''The low-end consumer is really feeling the pinch from paycheck to paycheck.''
 That trend is likely to continue. Consumer spending actually declined in June after adjusting for inflation, according to a Commerce Department report this week. And the weak labor market has shown little improvement. Last week, new claims for unemployment benefits reached their highest level in six years, according to the Labor Department.
 Americans are also going deeper into debt by using credit cards and loans to make many of their purchases. In June, consumer debt rose by $14.3 billion, more than double what economists had expected.
 Wal-Mart suggested on Thursday that more of its customers were living paycheck to paycheck, although the company provided no data to back up that claim. A call to Wal-Mart for comment was not returned.
 For months, the bleak economic trends have benefited discount retailers, whose sales accelerated as other companies fell back.
 But in July, signs suggested that Americans were seeking bargains elsewhere. Discounters' sales rose 2.3 percent compared with a year earlier, but that increase was less than half of June's. Wholesale clubs performed far better, with sales up 9.5 percent in July, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group.
 ''Everybody is in a dramatic quest for value,'' said Todd D. Slater, a retail analyst at Lazard Capital Markets.
 The wholesaler Costco, which sells a wide range of goods at its warehouse-style stores, handily beat estimates with a 10 percent sales increase, helping its stock end the day slightly higher. 
 More expensive retailers, including Kohl's, J. C. Penney and Saks, suffered steep declines. At Target, which has a more upscale selection than its rival Wal-Mart, sales dropped 1.2 percent. (The figures represent so-called same-store sales, a closely watched gauge of retail sales that measures business at stores open at least a year.)
 ''With the end of the stimulus checks, we know consumers are spending more cautiously,'' Eduardo Castro-Wright, Wal-Mart's domestic president, said in a statement.
 Analysts say that retailers have given up wondering if things will improve during the back-to-school season; at this point, it is a question of just how bad matters will get.
 ''They have been kind of battening down the hatches,'' Mr. Perkins, of Retail Metrics, said. ''The inventory levels that they're carrying have been lower than they have been in a long time.''
 The back-to-school shopping weeks, starting in August, are usually a major selling season for retailers, as parents and children shop for backpacks, clothes and other items. Only the year-end holidays are more important to a store's bottom line.
 But with clothing sales plummeting, ''back to school is not going to happen,'' according to Mr. Slater, of Lazard.
 ''Most kids,'' he said, ''will be returning to school in last year's duds.''
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 1 5/32, to 100 21/32, as investors sought a haven in government debt. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.92 percent, from 4.05 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 30-year notes: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nikki Miller shopping at a Wal-Mart in Indianapolis. The discount chain predicts that sales in August will not be strong.(PHOTOGRAPH BY D. KEVIN ELLIOTT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Chart details line graph for 30-year.
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Chart details line graph for revenue bonds.
Retail Sales in July: bar graphs detail the following: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX
Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
and SALES: Results are for the five weeks that ended Aug. 2, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (73%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



183 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section WT; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: After 2-Day Rally, Wall Street Takes a Tumble

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street started to fall at the opening bell Thursday and the decline accelerated as the close neared. 
 The market fell after weekly unemployment claims jumped to a six-year high and Wal-Mart Stores and other retailers reported disappointing sales, touching off renewed fears that a pullback in consumer spending will damage the economy. 
 The Dow Jones industrials were down more than 224 points. 
 The Labor Department said the number of newly laid off people seeking jobless benefits increased by a seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 455,000 last week, the highest level since late March 2002. Wall Street had expected new claims to rise to around 430,000.
 Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said same-store sales, or stores open at least one year, rose 3 percent in July as consumers began using up their government stimulus checks. Analysts had expected a 3.4 percent rise, on average.
 Financial stocks also lost ground after the insurance giant, the American International Group, reported that it lost more than $5 billion in the second quarter. The stock was by far the steepest decliner among the 30 that make up the Dow industrials.
 Also dragging on investor jitters was an announcement by the credit-ratings agency Moody's Investors Service that it had placed the long-term ratings of the credit card lender American Express Company on review for possible downgrade.
 Bill Stone, chief investment strategist for PNC Wealth Management, said the stream of economic news had been somewhat negative lately, often short-circuiting the market's attempts to build on rallies. Thursday's reports on employment and financials only added to investors list of worries, he said.
 ''The concerns about a weakening economy always run to worries about the financials and then you add some negative news to them on their own and you've got what we've got today,'' Mr. Stone said.
 At the close, the Dow had fallen 224.64 points, or 1.93 percent. The pullback came after a two-day rally of more than 370 points.
 Broader indicators also slid. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 23.12 points, or 1.79 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 22.64 points, or 0.95 percent.
 Oil prices that fell sharply earlier in the week rebounded Thursday, likely adding to Wall Street's downbeat mood. Light, sweet crude rose $1.44 to settle at $120.02 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Bonds jumped as investors sought the protection of government debt. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its prices, fell to 3.93 percent from 4.05 percent late Wednesday. The dollar mostly rose against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.
 The employment data Thursday indicated that the labor market continued to weaken. The number of people continuing to collect unemployment benefits rose for the week ending July 26 to the highest level since early December 2003. In recent weeks, General Motors, Weyerhaeuser and Starbucks have all announced job cuts, sending more people to the unemployment lines.
 Stocks briefly came off their lows after the National Association of Realtors said its seasonally adjusted index of pending sales for existing homes rose 5.3 percent to 89 from a downwardly revised figure of 84.5 for May. Despite the June increase, the index sits 12 percent below year-ago levels. Economists surveyed by Thomson Financial had predicted the index would fall to 84.3.
 Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds, said the swift pullback in stocks after the day's economic readings illustrated the fragility of investor sentiment. He said the market's volatility reflected an undercurrent of uncertainty and efforts by some traders to capitalize on shifts in the mood.
 ''We react very strongly to bits of news,'' he said. ''The whipsaw danger is pretty high here.''
 In corporate news, American International Group fell $5.25, or 18 percent, to $23.84 after the world's largest insurer reported its loss and said weakness in the credit markets has erased several billions of dollars in value from its credit default swaps portfolio and other investments.
 American Express fell $1.31, or 3.5 percent, to $36.68 after the Moody's announcement.
 Citigroup fell $1.18, or 6 percent, to $18.52 after federal and state regulators announced settlements Thursday in which the company will repurchase more than $7 billion in auction-rate securities and pay $100 million in fines. The company neither acknowledged nor denied wrongdoing in the settlements. The New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo had threatened to charge Citigroup with fraudulent sales of auction-rate securities and with the destruction of key documents.
 The latest worries about financials offered an unwelcome reminder of the trouble companies are having with bad debt on their balance sheets. Tightness in the credit markets makes it hard for companies to unload and even value mortgages and other paper. And the reports of rising unemployment Thursday only added to fears that defaults on mortgages and other borrowings aren't likely to end soon as consumers continue to struggle.
 The results from Wal-Mart and other retailers only fanned concerns about consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity.
 Wal-Mart, also a Dow stock, fell $3.41, or 5.6 percent, to $57.35 after reporting its July sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); BONDS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (65%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



184 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Tropical Warming Tied to Flooding Rains

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Scientists studying variations in tropical heat and rainfall since the mid-1980s have found a strong link between warm periods and a rise in the frequency of the most extreme downpours. 
 The observed rise in the heaviest tropical rains is about twice that produced by computer simulations used to assess how human-caused global warming could change rainfall, said the researchers. 
 Other studies have already measured a rise in recent decades in heavy rains in areas as varied as North America and India, and climatologists have long forecast more heavy rainstorms in a world warmed by accumulating greenhouse gases. 
 But this analysis, using satellite measurements, is the first to find a strong statistical link between warmth and extreme tropical downpours, the researchers said. 
 The study was published Thursday in the online journal Science Express. The authors were Richard P. Allan of the University of Reading in England and Brian J. Soden at the University of Miami. 
 While a general relationship between warming and more flooding rains is already widely accepted, the new paper is important ''because it uses observations to demonstrate the sensitivity of extreme rainfall to temperature,'' said Anthony J. Broccoli, the director of the Center for Environmental Prediction at Rutgers University. 
 ''Such changes in extreme rainfall are quite important in my view, as flash flooding is produced by the extreme rain events,'' Dr. Broccoli added. ''In the U.S., flooding is a greater cause of death than lightning or tornadoes, and presumably poses similar risks elsewhere.''
 In developing countries, cities with poor drainage routinely grind to a halt and see outbreaks of waterborne disease after extreme rainstorms. Such downpours have been estimated in some such countries to blunt economic growth by several percent, according to World Bank experts on disasters.
 The new study analyzed 20 years of data from NASA satellites measuring tropical rainfall through several cycles of El Nino events. The periodic hot spells in the tropical Pacific Ocean, and contrasting cooler La Nina episodes, can influence weather from North America to Southeast Asia.
 The rise in frequency of the heaviest rains (the top one percent of downpours) was accompanied by diminishing light rains, the scientists reported. 
 Overall, the work paints a portrait of a warming world producing more of the most destructive tropical flash floods than climatologists had realized, Dr. Soden said. 
 Many experts in disaster management have increasingly warned that global warming is likely to pose an outsized threat to poor countries around the tropics, which cannot handle weather extremes now, let alone what may be coming later in the century. 
 Dr. Soden agreed that wealthier places were likely more able to deal with such risks. ''The better your infrastructure for dealing with extremes, the less vulnerable you are,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); EL NINO & LA NINA (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (79%); CLIMATE CHANGE (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TORNADOES (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); MODELING & SIMULATION (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); WRITERS (69%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



185 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Reasons Some Firms Left the U.S.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
It has become received wisdom on Wall Street that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has damaged American competitiveness. It made listing in the American market less attractive to foreign companies and drove initial public offerings overseas. It raised costs for American companies without providing any significant benefit.
 But do the facts support that wisdom? 
 No.
 A new study of the foreign companies that fled the American market after the Securities and Exchange Commission made it easy for them to do so in 2007 suggests that the companies that left were largely ones whose slow growth, and poor market performance, had reduced their need and ability to attract American capital. There is even some indication that the market punished companies that decided to leave even though they could still use the capital.
 What the study shows, said one of the authors, G. Andrew Karolyi, a finance professor at Ohio State, is that the market did not react favorably when companies got out from under American regulation.
 Instead, the paper by Mr. Korolyi, along with Rene M. Stulz, also of Ohio State, and Craig Doidge of the University of Toronto, found that share prices suffered in the few cases where foreign companies with good growth prospects left the American market. ''When they choose to leave even though they are benefiting'' from the American listing, Mr. Karolyi said in an interview, ''shareholders may wonder if there is something sneaky going on.''
 There has long been evidence that overseas firms benefit, through a lower cost of capital, when they choose to list their shares in the United States. Their shares trade for higher prices than do those of similar companies that do not choose to list here.
 Why is that? The traditional answer is that investors have more faith in companies that comply with American disclosure rules and reconcile their books to United States accounting standards.
 The advantage of an American listing faded early in this decade, although it did not vanish. The scandals at Enron and WorldCom did not renew faith in American rules, and it turned out that the American listing premium had soared in the late 1990s in part because foreign technology companies flocked to the United States to take advantage of what turned out to be a bubble. Their collapse made the American premium seem smaller.
 The premium hit bottom in 2002, and recovered somewhat after that. Was that a reflection of investor confidence being renewed by passage of Sarbanes-Oxley? Not to hear the critics tell it. The Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, an independent panel whose creation in 2006 was heralded by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., cited that data as proof that Sarbanes-Oxley hurt the markets. Their logic: The average premium after 2002, when the law passed, was lower than it was before the bubble burst. The committee ignored the fact the premium rose after the law was passed.
 There is no question that the costs of complying with Section 404 of the law -- requiring audits of corporate internal controls -- has scared executives in the United States and abroad. The first year of audits found lots of problems, but for the vast majority of large companies those problems have since been fixed. And the costs of audits, which soared, have stabilized.
 That does not prove the audits were worth the cost, although the fact that so many problems were fixed -- in some cases requiring substantial accounting restatements -- does indicate there was considerable benefit.
 Those benefits are not yet available to owners of microcap American companies, those with less than $75 million in market capitalization. The S.E.C. has repeatedly delayed requiring them to obey the law. The heads of the Congressional small business committees, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and Representative Nydia Velazquez of New York, have pushed for the delays, arguing that Sarbanes-Oxley compliance would hurt the companies, 
 Historically, the United States made it difficult for any company, foreign or domestic, to abandon its S.E.C. registration. The logic was that investors had bought securities with the promise that they would have the protection of American securities laws, and it was unfair to remove that protection so long as a significant number of Americans still owned the shares.
 The result was that a foreign company listed on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq could drop its listing, but it still had to comply with American disclosure requirements and accounting rules. Critics called it the ''Hotel California'' rule, after the Eagles song about a place where ''you can check out anytime you like, but you can never leave.''
 That changed in 2007, when the S.E.C. made it easy for most foreign companies to leave, producing the exodus that the authors study. They focus on 59 companies that dropped their American registration. That number is too small to be definitive, but the study finds no evidence to support the thesis that companies that leave the United States are rewarded by investors, and some evidence to indicate that those who could benefit from an American listing are punished. 
 There is some reason to think the American premium is destined to disappear anyway. By letting companies walk away easily, the advantage of an American registration is reduced, Mr. Stulz has argued. The S.E.C. is moving to allow foreign companies to use international accounting rules, so any advantage from confidence in U.S. accounting rules will vanish. And the commission is making it much easier for brokers to sell unregistered foreign shares to Americans.
 ''I think there is a grave risk that the advantage may be lost because of the continued chipping away at the rock,'' Mr. Karolyi said. ''It just doesn't seem like the right time or the right place to be engaged in a serious deregulation of financial markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (68%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



186 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2329 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
JAZZ
 Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
 REZ ABBASI GROUP (Thursday) On his most recent album, ''Bazaar'' (Zoho), the guitarist Rez Abbasi infuses Southeast Asian motifs with jazz flexibility, rock bombast and the swirl of a Hammond B-3 organ. Here Mr. Abbasi reconnects with the Punjabi singer Kiran Ahluwalia, and further enlists the keyboardist Sam Barsh and the drummer Jochen Ruekert. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10. (Nate Chinen)
 CYRO BAPTISTA AND BEAT THE DONKEY (Saturday) The theatricality and kinetic energy of this troupe, led by the percussionist Cyro Baptista, can occasionally overshadow its slyly intelligent spin on Third World fusions. But those qualities will surely be welcome at this outdoor performance, as will the airborne improvisations of the clarinetist and saxophonist Anat Cohen. At 7 p.m., Damrosch Park, 62nd Street near Amsterdam Avenue, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5766, lincolncenter.org; free. (Chinen) 
 DAVID BINNEY (Tuesday) Mr. Binney, an alto saxophonist and composer, pursues a vision of avant-gardism that embraces harmony, melody and rhythm, along with amplification. Here he works with regular collaborators: the keyboardist Craig Taborn, the bassist Thomas Morgan and the drummer Dan Weiss. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 VALERIE CAPERS (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Capers, a veteran pianist and a groundbreaking jazz educator, performs here in the most companionable of formats, backed by the bassist John Robinson. At 9:45 p.m., Knickerbocker Bar and Grill, 33 University Place, at East Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 228-8490, knickerbockerbarandgrill.com; cover, $3. (Chinen)
 THE COALITION OF THE WILLING (Monday) The guitarist Mike Gamble stocks this provocatively named ensemble with a pair of musicians equally capable of hardy groove or willful abstraction: Patrice Blanchard, a bassist, and Bobby Previte, a drummer. At 8:30 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, near Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. (Chinen)
 BILL CUNLIFFE TRIO (Thursday) Bill Cunliffe, an accomplished pianist and composer in the modern jazz mainstream, doesn't surface often on the New York scene, having fruitfully established a home base in Los Angeles. For this briefest of engagements, he calls upon a reliable rhythm team, the bassist Martin Wind and the drummer Tim Horner. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
 CHRIS DAVE TRIO (Monday) Chris Dave, an often ferocious drummer with heavy hip-hop credentials and extensive jazz training, pursues a kind of hybrid in a groove-driven band with the assertive multireedist Gary Thomas and the bassist known as Foley. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $20 at tables, $10 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 WAYNE ESCOFFERY AND VENERATION (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Escoffery, a tenor saxophonist, leads a capable post-bop crew that includes the bassist Hans Glawischnig and the drummer Johnathan Blake. And as on his most recent album, ''Hopes and Dreams'' (Savant), he features the dynamic vibraphonist Joe Locke. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)
 ORRIN EVANS QUARTET (Thursday) Orrin Evans is a percussive pianist equally attuned to hard bop and hip-hop, and he often surrounds himself with rhythmically assertive compatriots. Here that means the trumpeter Terell Stafford and the singer Denise King, along with Luques Curtis on bass and Donald Edwards on drums. (Through Aug. 16.) At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)
 GARAGE A TROIS (Thursday) This raucous jam band, composed of the percussionists Mike Dillon and Stanton Moore, the saxophonist Skerik and the keyboardist Marco Benevento, grooves unabashedly but also applies a subversively thoughtful touch. At 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 468-7619, highlineballroom.com; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Chinen)
 PEDRO GIRAUDO JAZZ ORCHESTRA (Monday) The bassist Pedro Giraudo features his own compositions in this large group, which matches jazz protocols to the lessons of his native Argentina. Among the strong improvisers in the ranks are the saxophonist Will Vinson and the trombonist Ryan Keberle. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $15. (Chinen)
 KEVIN HAYS TRIO (Wednesday and Thursday) Kevin Hays, a thoughtful and versatile pianist, has an engaging new album, ''The Dreamer'' (ArtistShare), made with the same excellent rhythm section heard here: Doug Weiss on bass and Bill Stewart on drums. Wednesday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., Thursday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. 
 (Chinen)
 THE LATIN SIDE OF HERBIE HANCOCK (Tuesday through Thursday) Continuing a project that has already tapped the songbooks of John Coltrane and Wayne Shorter, the trombonist Conrad Herwig tilts his ear to another prolific paragon of jazz modernism. Among his conspirators are the indomitable salsa pianist Eddie Palmieri and the versatile trumpeter Randy Brecker. (Through Aug. 17.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 REBECCA MARTIN QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) An artful and subtle singer-songwriter, Rebecca Martin has a new album, ''The Growing Season'' (Sunnyside), produced by the guitarist Kurt Rosenwinkel and featuring the bassist Larry Grenadier and the drummer Brian Blade. All of the above resurface for this prominent album-release engagement. (Through Aug. 17.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 KATE MCGARRY QUARTET (Sunday) Previewing material from her forthcoming album, ''If Less Is More ...Nothing Is Everything'' (Palmetto), due out in a couple of weeks, the astute and sensitive singer Kate McGarry leads a supple working band in a free outdoor concert. At 7 p.m., Pier 1, Riverside Park South at West 70th Street, (212) 408-0219, nyc.gov/parks/soh; free. (Chinen)
 RON MILES QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) The trumpeter Ron Miles has a warm and rounded tone, and his compositions can tend toward summery bliss. He has a beautifully productive relationship with the guitarist Bill Frisell, who serves as a front-line partner here, in contact with the authoritative bassist Reginald Veal and the effervescent drummer Matt Wilson. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)
 MIKE MORENO TRIO (Sunday) On his modest but rewarding new album, ''Third Wish'' (Cris Cross), the guitarist Mike Moreno breezes through jazz standards common and obscure, along with some originals. He's likely to do the same here, with the help of the bassist Matt Brewer and the drummer Nasheet Waits. At 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) 
 LEE MORGAN 70TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Thursday) The ferociously gifted trumpeter Lee Morgan, who died in 1972, would have turned 70 this year. Paying proper homage here are some worthy inheritors of his hard-bop legacy: the trumpeters Eddie Henderson and David Weiss, the tenor saxophonists Billy Harper and Bennie Maupin, the pianist Geri Allen, the bassist Dwayne Burno and the drummer Billy Hart. (Through Aug. 17.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. 
 (Chinen)
 MUSETTE EXPLOSION/ANDY STATMAN (Thursday) At 8 p.m. Musette Explosion -- Will Holshouser on accordion, Marcus Rojas on tuba and Matt Munisteri on guitar and banjo -- recreates a popular species of French cafe music. At 10 Andy Statman, a virtuoso mandolinist and clarinetist, explores a range of personal interests, running from klezmer to bluegrass to free jazz. At Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; suggested donation, $10. (Chinen)
 THE MUSIC OF ANTONIO CARLOS JOBIM AND STAN GETZ (Tuesday through Thursday) An over-the-shoulder glance at the heyday of bossa nova, featuring the sparkling group Trio Da Paz, along with the singer Maucha Adnet, the tenor saxophonist Harry Allen and the vibraphonist Joe Locke. (Through Aug. 17.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, ($10 for students for the 9:30 set), with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
 NEGRONI'S TRIO (Tuesday) The Puerto Rican pianist Jose Negroni and his son Nomar, a drummer, recently released a spirited album called ''Father & Son,'' on the Venezuelan label Cacao. As on the album, they welcome the bassist Marco Panascia, and play a mix of Latin standards and originals. At 9 and 11 p.m., Cachaca, 35 West Eighth Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $15, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 MISHA PIATIGORSKY TRIO (Sunday) On his recent album, ''Uncommon Circumstance'' (Mishamusic), the pianist Misha Piatigorsky plays music informed both by classical and groove music, with impressive if sometimes airless results. At 8 p.m., Drom, 85 Avenue A, near Sixth Street, East Village, (212) 777-1157, dromnyc.com; $10. (Chinen)
 KURT ROSENWINKEL (Sunday) Mr. Rosenwinkel, the most influential jazz guitarist of his generation, advances an ultramodern strain of post-bop that holds both intellect and emotion in a state of suspension. His groups usually feature the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, a longtime collaborator, but here he works with a trumpeter, Jason Palmer, in a quintet that also includes the pianist Aaron Parks. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 468-7619, highlineballroom.com; $25. (Chinen)
 RANDY SANDKE TRIO (Thursday) With a string of solid releases, most recently ''The Subway Ballet'' (Evening Star), the trumpeter Randy Sandke has proved himself an artist of imagination and intent. He takes a clear lead in this intimate trio with the pianist Ted Rosenthal and the bassist Nicki Parrott. At 8 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing, near the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students. (Chinen)
 JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is the rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre. Her regular gig here involves a rotating cast of players, including, in this installment, the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Rudy Royston. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. 
 (Chinen)
 DAVID SMITH QUINTET (Sunday) David Smith, a capable trumpeter whose tastes align with post-Wayne Shorter hard bop, leads the same group heard on his strong debut, ''Circumstance'' (Fresh Sound New Talent): Seamus Blake on tenor saxophone, Nate Radley on guitar, David Ephross on bass and Mark Ferber on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Brooklyn Lyceum, 227 Fourth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, (866) 469-2687, brooklynlyceum.com; $10.
 (Chinen)
 STEVE SWELL'S NATION OF WE (Tuesday through Thursday) As the name implies, this is an ensemble of many voices, wedded to an ideal of collectivity. In addition to the trombonist and composer Steve Swell, its ranks include the violinists Jason Kao Hwang and Charlie Burnham; the trumpeters Roy Campbell and Lewis Barnes; and the multireedists Ras Moshe and Sabir Mateen. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15; $10 for students . (Chinen)
 ELIO VILLAFRANCA QUARTET (Monday) On his new album, ''The Source In Between'' (Ceiba Tree), the Cuban pianist Elio Villafranca leads a hard-charging group that features the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander. For this one-nighter he swaps in Grant Stewart and enlists the bassist Matt Brewer and the drummer Dafnis Prieto. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $20; $10 for students; with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
 KENNY WERNER TRIO (Friday and Saturday) Kenny Werner, a pianist who tempers fearsome technique with a questing spiritualism, leads a trio with the bassist Jorge Roeder and the drummer Richie Barshay. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
 STEVE WILSON QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) The alto and soprano saxophonist Steve Wilson combines economy and modernity in his playing, and engages deeply with his supporting cast, which consists here of the pianist Helen Sung, the bassist Ben Williams and the drummer Joey Saylor. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)
 MICHAEL WOLFF TRIO (Friday) Though best known these days as the father of Nat and Alex Wolff -- a k a the Naked Brothers, who can be seen on Nickelodeon and heard on Sony -- Michael Wolff is a highly proficient pianist with jazz roots. His trio includes the bassist Chip Jackson and the drummer Mike Clark. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (79%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



187 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Designed to Rent

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA STOREY

 BODY:
''Adding to the home's beauty are period furnishings and art, such as Noguchi tables, a Heywood-Wakefield dining set and chairs by Prouve, Eames and Mies van der Rohe.''
 A SNIPPET of overheard conversation delivered by a docent on a house tour? 
 A passage from a tony architectural magazine, perhaps? 
 In fact, it's a classified ad -- a vacation-home listing aimed at renters, especially those with an eye for design.
 Owners and investors across the country, eager to stand out in an increasingly crowded market, are hoping that they can trump the usual real estate maxim -- location, location, location -- with their own combination of decor, style and historical accuracy. 
 ''We have a lot of guests who want furnishings that look like old Savannah,'' said Tammy Elkins, the executive assistant for Stay Savannah Vacation Rentals. Her agency won't manage a property if it ''still has a lower grade level of furnishings,'' she said, adding that homeowners will often consult with Stay Savannah on how they should decorate their houses before putting them on the market for rent.
 It's not just historical towns like Savannah where the idea is taking hold. Owners in Southern California, New Mexico and elsewhere are turning to interior design as well. 
 The trend could have been predicted a few years ago, when vacation-home owners began offering luxury amenities like 600-thread-count sheets, Bosch appliances and radiant-heated tiles. Those are now standard in most high-end rentals. But with so many vacation getaways entering the rental market, owners and property management companies are now looking to design to draw vacationers. 
 Robbie Bell, a real estate land developer in Statesboro, Ga., knew he needed something special to persuade renters to choose his 1871 home. He bought the 10-bedroom property on Liberty Street in the heart of Savannah's historic district in 2004, even though it was boarded up and dilapidated. 
 The $1 million gut renovation took more than two years, and when it came time to do up the interior, he spent close to another $250,000 on furnishings and decorations. The property rents for $8,925 a week. 
 ''We tried to set up the house in the way it would have been in the 19th century,'' Mr. Bell said. ''Most people doing this have an old house and put old furniture in there and find what they can on sale. We really wanted to make it stand out.'' 
 THERE was plenty of competition. The number of vacation homes in Savannah listed on HomeAway.com, a vacation rentals Web site, increased 120 percent in the first two quarters of 2008 from the similar period last year, said Eileen Buesing, the site's director of public relations.
 Inventory has gone up around the country, Ms. Buesing said, partly because the economic downturn has caused many vacation-home owners to postpone selling their properties and to rent them out, instead -- often to supplement income. In addition, some travelers are forgoing hotels and choosing vacation-home rentals as a more economical alternative.
 Since October 2006, when guests first began to stay at Mr. Bell's house, the listing on VRBO.com, the Web site where he advertises, has received 29 positive-rated online guest book comments and no negative comments. Several guests cited ''the exquisite interiors'' and ''elegant decor'' as part of the reason for their positive stay. (Most listings on VRBO, owned by HomeAway, average only five online guest book comments, Ms. Buesing said.)
 Christine Karpinski, the author of ''How to Rent Vacation Properties by Owner'' (Kinney Pollack Press, 2004), said design has become more important since more rentals have become available. Ten years ago, a mountain cabin could be decorated with utilitarian log furniture, and ''it would rent anyways because there was less to choose from,'' she said. ''But now there are so many more choices, and travelers will gravitate to what appeals to them.''
 People in the design industry say that the presence of designers like Martha Stewart and Michael Graves in stores like Kmart and Target has helped lead the consumer to be much more conscious of furniture and aesthetics. ''In the context of the way people look at their homes,'' said Warren Shoulberg, editor of Home Furnishings News, ''consumers are more design savvy than they ever were because they have been exposed to all these products.''
 Real estate agents agree and say vacation renters are seeking such flourishes in the properties they rent. 
 Doug McKenzie, a business partner in an architectural firm in Seattle, said he and his partner, Todd Johnson, have been going to Palm Springs, Calif., every April the last few years, in particular, for the design aspect of the area. They rent a midcentury-modern home. 
 ''We were pretty specific in wanting a place with a pool and a great outdoor area,'' Mr. McKenzie said. The owners of the house, a three-bedroom two-bathroom home from the era of the Case Study Houses, ''did an amazing job with lighting and furniture. And from that standpoint, you have a nice clean, simple interior with clean furnishings.'' 
 The floors and walls are predominantly white. Color is found in accents, like the orange and green loungers in the living room or on the beds made up in patterned linens. 
 The home's owners, Lindy and Robert Clark, who live in Seattle, bought it in 2004 as a vacation house, and decided to rent it out. In recent years, 30 percent of their business has come from repeat renters. 
 ''Most of the people renting from us are architects or in the fashion business,'' said Ms. Clark, a sales manager for a furniture company in Seattle. ''We realized that people are going for the furniture and the way the house looks.''
 Since so many of their renters are repeat customers, the Clarks try to keep the property, which rents for $1,150 to $1,400 a week depending on the season, looking fresh by adding or replacing pieces each year. Recently they replaced their Eero Saarinen dining chairs, which were imitations manufactured in the '60s, with Verner Panton chairs, which are ''much easier to clean and maintain,'' Ms. Clark said. 
 The Clarks say they don't worry about the furniture being damaged. Because most of their renters appreciate the design so much, ''most people take care of it,'' said Mr. Clark, a principal with an interior design firm. ''It's not that they tippy-toe around either.''
 While designer furniture is often a defining feature for properties in Palm Springs, eco-friendly design is a draw in Vail, Colo., said Joseph Sobin, marketing and media relations manager at Peak Properties, a high-end vacation rental company in Vail. ''Most other companies talk about fine linens and Viking stoves, and the reality is these are standard in luxe homes,'' he said. ''We are trying to also push the green aspect of the home and the decor.''
 Peak Properties is changing the way it markets its homes by rewriting the house descriptions on its Web site. While it will continue to note the high-end amenities, it will also include green details, including that the timbers in the great room of one house came from ''wood harvested from trees lost to beetle infestation'' in Montana. A description of a fireplace will highlight that it was built with local stone. 
 In Taos, N.M., locally inspired design is important in attracting renters. Richard Spera, the owner of Casa Gallina, a complex of three adobe casitas, emphasizes this on the homepage of his Web site: ''Each guest house is decorated and appointed with furniture, art, antiques and textiles from New Mexico, Old Mexico and the world over.''
 There are traditional adobe-style details like kiva fireplaces, mud plaster and Ponderosa beams as well as a Southwestern palette of burnt yellows and rich reds and blues. Weekly rents are $700 to $1,230. 
 Mr. Spera moved to Taos 12 years ago from New York, where he had worked for several years in the restaurant business. He said many of his guests were seeking a quintessential Taos experience. ''I design my places the way I would want to live in them,'' Mr. Spera said. ''It's just colorful and full of life, and basically everything is handmade -- artisan. I just put that on my Web site this year, and I realize the word artisan is what I do.'' 
 That artisan feel is one of the main factors that led 75 people on Tripadvisor.com to leave five-star ratings after their stays. ''The adobe is magical with lots of truly welcoming touches,'' said one writer from Perth, Australia, using the name Findrainbow.
 Jennifer Peters Johnson, a health and nutrition writer from Boulder, Colo., has stayed at Casa Gallina twice. She, her sister and their mother had come to Taos for relaxation but also for the local galleries. ''I would never even consider staying in a regular hotel in Taos,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''I love the cow painting over my bed. Richard will tell me about the artist. It's as if each element has a story to tell.''
 All the emphasis on design and attention to detail has proved to be a boon, though some homeowners acknowledge that that success does have drawbacks.
 ''I wish I could go down there more,'' said Ms. Clark, the Palm Springs homeowner. ''That's the problem when you rent a lot. You can't go yourself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN STYLE: Above, a Palm Springs, Calif., home for short-timers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LOCAL FLAVOR: Suzanne Peters Payne and her sister rent one of the adobe casitas in Taos, N.M., owned by Richard Spera, who tends his gardens.
STYLE POINTS: The Clarks' pool in Palm Springs is a midcentury classic down to its kidney shape.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RESTORATION: Robbie Bell, left, spent $250,000 to decorate and furnish the 19th-century vacation home he rents out in Savannah, Ga. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT))
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (71%); LAND SUBDIVISION (70%)

COMPANY: HOMEAWAY INC (50%)

TICKER: AWAY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



188 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims and Gauge for Home Sales Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Claims for jobless aid rose last week, the government reported on Thursday, but a gauge of future home sales rose in a hopeful sign for the battered housing sector.
 The higher-than-expected June signings of home sale contracts offered some hope that the housing market might be stabilizing. But the jobless claims increased concerns about consumer spending and the corporate profit outlook. 
 Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 7,000 last week to 455,000, the highest in six years, the Labor Department said. But it said a new federal program to extend benefits was partly the reason for the elevated level.
 Still, the four-week moving average of claims, which irons out weekly fluctuations and provides a better view of the underlying trend, also showed that jobs were tough to find as the economy copes with the worst housing downturn since the Great Depression.
 ''Look past the choppiness and bias in the data and what you'll see is a fundamental weakness in the labor market,'' said Michelle Meyer, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York.
 ''We'll see the unemployment rate peaking at 6.3 percent next year,'' she said. It hit 5.7 percent in July.
 The four-week average of new claims jumped to 419,500, from 392,750 the previous week. This was the highest since July 2003 and the first time since that year that the four-week moving average breached 400,000 -- a threshold linked with recession.
 A separate report released later on Thursday signaled that Americans were increasingly turning to credit cards and consumer loans to maintain spending in the face of rising living costs.
 June consumer credit rose $14.33 billion, at a 6.7 percent annual rate, to $2.586 trillion, the Federal Reserve said. Analysts polled by Reuters expected a $6 billion rise.
 Housing lies at the heart of the economic problems, and the rise in the index of pending home sales, which is based on contracts signed in June, was a welcome bit of good news.
 ''This is telling us that sales have stabilized. This raises some hopes that we've flattened out, which doesn't mean the problem is solved,'' said Pierre Ellis, senior global economist at Decision Economics in New York.
 The 5.3 percent rise in the index brought it to 89.0, its highest level since October.
 Not everyone, however, was convinced it was a sign of strength.
 ''We have to see how much of that is attributable to bank-owned properties or foreclosures, which seem to be driving the markets right now,'' said Andrew Richman, managing director at SunTrust's personal asset management division in West Palm Beach, Fla.
 ''There are some bottom feeders coming in to buy some of these homes in distressed situations,'' he said. ''How long that will last I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve Board) Chart details bar graph for annual pace of change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



189 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Seizes Britain

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LEEDS, England 

 BODY:
Down the road from the train station here sits a gaping hole. It was supposed to be one of the tallest and most stylish apartment buildings in Western Europe, complete with interiors designed by Philippe Starck.
 Instead, construction stopped abruptly last month when financing dried up, a casualty of the tight credit markets. 
 Now the abandoned site is a stark symbol of the collapse of Britain's building boom and how credit market turmoil spread across the Atlantic Ocean from the United States. 
 Britons have come to an uncomfortable realization in the last few weeks: after 17 years of uninterrupted growth, the British economy is moving closer to recession, and may already be in one. 
 Figures released on Thursday by HBOS, Britain's largest mortgage lender, showed the housing market slump, which has been dragging down consumer confidence, is gathering pace. The average price of a property fell 8.8 percent in the 12 months ended July 31, the biggest drop since the company started tracking prices in 1983. Repossessions, bankruptcies and unemployment, though at relative lows, have started to creep up in the last three months. 
 The Bank of England, the nation' s central bank, is unable to lower interest rates to keep the economy growing because inflation looms. It left lending rates unchanged at its meeting on Thursday. 
 Now many economists are predicting the situation will drastically deteriorate over the next six months, leaving Britain to face a longer, more painful downturn than the United States.
 ''The U.S. has seen problems come through earlier and there was more action to lower interest rates than in the U.K., meaning the U.K. will be somewhat slower to recover,'' said Ian Harnett, managing director at Absolute Strategy Research in London.
 Also on Thursday, both the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of England pronounced Britain's economic prognosis as gloomy.
 Voters are blaming Prime Minister Gordon Brown, giving his Labor Party its worst popularity rating in nearly 30 years.
 Britain's economy is in poorer shape than most in Europe, with the exception of Spain and Ireland, because of its heavy reliance on two struggling industries: housing and financial services. At the height of the housing boom, British banks were trying to outdo one another in their willingness to lend while rivals on the Continent were generally more constrained by regulation.
 Leeds is among the cities hardest hit. Situated in the northern middle of the country close to Manchester and Liverpool, with a population of almost 450,000, Leeds boomed in the late 1990s when technology and service companies set up shop here to take advantage of cheap rents and proximity to a major university. 
 Demand for offices and apartments gave rise to a construction boom that made Leeds the fastest growing city in Britain in 2003 and led to the region being christened the Golden Triangle.
 Now, many of the city's office buildings are empty and their once fashionable glass facades are cluttered with for-sale signs. New developments, like the Lumiere project that was to rise near to the train station, are being canceled as banks withdraw their financing. Another development, Criterion Place, informally known as Kissing Towers, which would have provided 300 new apartments, was shelved last month.
 North of the city center the picture is even bleaker. Overflowing garbage containers stand in front of boarded up houses, and the city's charities are bracing for a busy fall and winter.
 Gordon Bell, chief executive of Consumer Credit Counseling Service in Leeds, said calls to his team were up 20 percent in the last three months and would probably rise as personal bankruptcies increased. 
 That increase will coincide with rising credit costs and rising prices. 
 Shahz Khuram, a 33-year-old taxi driver, is nervous about the $160,000 mortgage on his two-bedroom apartment. The fixed-rate period ends next year and he will have to refinance. ''It's not only the mortgage rates that have gone up. Everything is more expensive. I have friends who are selling their cars to pay their mortgage,'' he said. 
 The average interest rate for a mortgage in Britain rose to 5.8 percent from 5.6 percent in the 12 months that ended in May. 
 Home repossessions are creeping up and even property prices in London have started to fall, with values of homes in the most expensive neighborhoods, including exclusive Knightsbridge, down by 1.6 percent in July.
 Property prices remain about 10 percent higher than three years ago, but Standard & Poor's warned last month that prices could fall an additional 17 percent before the end of next year. That would leave about 1.7 million homeowners holding mortgages exceeding the value of their properties.
 The housing woes have started to threaten Vivienne Cockcroft's small business. Ms. Cockcroft sells second-hand clothing and furniture out of a warehouse she rents here, but rising rent and utility costs are forcing her to either move or close down. ''Our cash reserves are being eaten away, and even moving would mean job cuts,'' she said, referring to her eight-person staff.
 Economists say the global credit market turmoil has yet to fully work its way through Britain's economy. Only recently has unemployment, now at 5.2 percent, started to rise. And Britons are still managing to keep up with payments on their record personal debt of $:1.4 trillion ($2.7 trillion). Indeed, personal bankruptcies were down in the second quarter, though at a slower pace than the trend had been.
 Companies appear to be less resilient: liquidations rose 15 percent in the last year.
 There are a few glimmers of hope. Shore Capital, a London-based investment firm, set up a venture capital trust this year containing $:75 million ($146.5 million) to help fill the lending gap. It has already helped Bloomsbury Auctions, a rare book retailer and auction house based in London, to buy stock.
 And in London, expensive properties, particularly those aimed at wealthy foreigners, still sell. The real estate agency Winkworth recently sold a 2,551-square-foot, four-bedroom apartment in Covent Garden, close to the National Opera, for $:3.4 million ($6.6 million) to an unidentified European buyer.
 ''There's no doubt it's a tough environment and it will really depend on the banks and the economy how much more the market will fall,'' said Charles Peerless, director of Winkworth's West End office. ''The encouraging thing is, there are still buyers out there.''
 But outside that rarefied world, even successful businesses are having difficulty finding capital. Tommy Barnshaw, who runs a business with his wife, Vanessa, outside London selling wheelchairs and stair lifts, is among the small- and medium-size businesses that are struggling to obtain loans from banks burdened by millions in loan losses.
 The Barnshaws need $600,000 to move to a bigger shop, but their mortgage broker said finding a loan would be difficult.
 ''Businesses still need money,'' said Adam Tyler, chief executive of National Association of Commercial Finance Brokers. ''There's just nothing out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Listings in a real estate agent's window in Leeds, England. Property values are down about 9 percent in Britain.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gordon Bell, chief executive of a credit counseling service in Leeds, said calls seeking help rose 20 percent in the last three months. Below, the Lumiere project that was halted in Leeds.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) CHART: BRITISH GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
 CHANGE IN BRITISH HOME PRICES. Chart details two bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); RECESSION (79%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); REPOSSESSION (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); SPAIN (79%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



190 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Booming With Oil and a New Exuberance

BYLINE: By FINN-OLAF JONES

 BODY:
IT took approximately a day for the song -- and who doesn't know that song? -- to clear my head once I'd arrived in Oklahoma City. This revitalized metropolis does seem to have a constant wind that comes sweepin' down the plain, but the windfalls from its booming economy have brought enough new grand urban projects, gleaming museums and sophistication so that one suspects the only folks tempted to yell ''Ayipioeeay'' are visitors.
 Rising just outside the Will Rogers World Airport terminal is the first evidence of the reason for Oklahoma City's recent resurgence: an oil rig. The rigs are all over town -- even on the State Capitol grounds. A lot of pricey crude and gas bubble beneath Oklahoma.
 ''When I moved here, there wasn't much here for someone who was more used to London's pace of life,'' said Dina Hammam, known as Dinky, a social worker and socialite-about-town who arrived from England six years ago. ''The transformation has been incredible. Just look around.'' 
 A glance around her breakfast spot, the noirish-cool Lobby Bar in the newly renovated Will Rogers Theater, revealed a restored Art Deco mural of Will himself (local cowpoke made good) and a cafe brimming with Wall Street types and their stylish spouses. The theater looms over an affluent corridor of North Western Avenue that continues along the Tara-sized mansions dotting Nichols Hills. Although the Mockingbird Manor antiques co-op up the street carries handmade blankets, and the French Cowgirl sells tooled cellphone holders to match your saddle, a cosmopolitan elegance presides over this part of town, with foreign restaurants and accents throughout.
 Newcomers to Oklahoma City might at first have a hard time guessing what part of the United States they're in. A generally flat cityscape and the Chicago-style Art Deco architecture downtown, coupled with the friendly-but-not-too-friendly nods and hellos, hint at the Midwest. Jazz, blues bars and ubiquitous barbecue joints suggest the South. But the wide vistas, blast-furnace winds from the surrounding red-dirt prairie and preponderance of American Indian shops (Oklahoma has 38 sovereign tribes), pickups and cowboy hats indicate that you are indeed in the West.
 And a Western kind of audacity pervades, from the 55-foot-tall glass Dale Chihuly sculpture in the Oklahoma City Museum of Art -- which boasts the world's most comprehensive collection of Chihuly's works -- to the exuberant parades and festivals that seem to be a constant. While I was in town, a nationally known local psychedelic band, the Flaming Lips, screened a homemade movie and music extravaganza, ''Christmas on Mars,'' to a raucous crowd at the deadCENTER Film Festival. At the same time, the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum was hosting a gathering of contemporary Western artists -- imagine a group of people resembling the cast of a Sam Peckinpah movie with paintbrushes. There is also a frisson in the air over the news that the city has managed to snag a National Basketball Association franchise, with the SuperSonics moving here from Seattle next season. 
 On the banks of the Oklahoma River, a football field-sized monument is under construction to commemorate the great Land Run of 1889, when 10,000 pioneers rushed into town on a single day. 
 The riverfront has come alive since 1999, when a canal was completed to attract visitors. A derelict warehouse area has been transformed into Bricktown, a lively focal point for night life, teeming with homegrown jazz and blues joints served by taxi boats. One of the more colorful stops is a bowling alley called RedPin -- a 10-laner masquerading as a nightclub where even the rented bowling shoes are hip-looking high-tops. 
 TO regain ''True West'' bearings, head south of the river, where a bronze sculpture of a galloping cowboy herding a steer to market presides next to the entrance to the Oklahoma National Stockyards. The century-old yards are still used for enormous cattle auctions several times a week, but you can also buy yourself a spot on the food chain one block farther up at Cattlemen's Steakhouse. Long lines form for lunch and dinner (no reservations taken), so try breakfast. Curiosity got the best of me when I saw calf brains on the menu. ''Usually it's just the old-timers that want this,'' the waitress said, handing me a plate of what looked like oatmeal. For the record, it has a slight livery aftertaste and isn't half bad, though I still felt obliged to wash it down with a couple of mugs of hot coffee and a plate of eggs with a magnificently aged and tenderized steak. 
 There's much more to feed your inner cowboy. Across the street, at the National Saddlery Company, hand-tooled saddles run from $1,500 to $30,000 for a masterpiece with silver trimmings. Down the street, Shorty's Caboy Hattery will supply you with a custom-made cattleman's hat described to me by Mike Nunn, behind the counter, as ''the only hat that will stay on your head in Oklahoma wind.'' 
 On the next block, Oklahoma Native Art and Jewelry carries a broad variety of items from Oklahoma's tribes. I was particularly smitten by the white pottery pieces with horse hairs burned onto their surfaces in Jackson Pollock-like swirling patterns -- a technique pioneered by the store's owner, Yolanda White Antelope. Her son, Mario Badillo, was seated at the store's jewelry bench concentrating on a line of silver animal jewelry whose overlay had distinct sculptural qualities. ''I was a rock sculptor when we still had our downtown studio,'' he told me. ''But then the bomb exploded and my leg got crushed when the wall caved in. It was too hard to move around after that so I became a jeweler instead.''
 The bomb. All the locals seem to know exactly where they were at 9:02 a.m. on April 19, 1995, when Timothy McVeigh detonated an explosive-filled truck beneath the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people and damaging 312 surrounding buildings. Mr. Badillo was one of several people who told me that they still couldn't force themselves back to that spot. 
 At the Oklahoma City National Memorial that now covers the site, a gently flowing reflecting pool and two massive gates preside over 168 empty bronze chairs -- one for each victim, the 19 smaller ones denoting children. After dusk, altar-like lights beneath the chairs suggested gently hovering souls.
 ANOTHER stirring monument, James Earle Fraser's famous 18-foot statue of an American Indian slumped on his horse, ''The End of the Trail,'' greets visitors in the lobby of the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum. I planned to spend a couple of hours there, but after a whole day I still hadn't reached the end of the trail myself. Exhibits in tentlike pavilions around a central courtyard cover everything about cowboys from their roots in Africa and England to how they operate on contemporary corporate ranches. 
 I had an air duel with a couple of passing kids outside the saloon in Prosperity Junction, a replica of a turn-of-the-century cattle town; examined guns used in famous movie shootouts in the Western Performers Gallery -- John Wayne's personal arsenal was particularly impressive; and learned that denims got their name when a French cloth called serge de Nimes became popular for ranchers' pants. The American West Gallery, a 2,000-piece cowboy Louvre of Western art, includes works by Frederic Remington, Albert Bierstadt and Charles M. Russell.
 ''Make sure to check out the auditorium before we close,'' a guide suggested when I was still far from finished browsing, and in I went to be bowled over by five 46-foot-high Wilson Hurley triptychs of sunsets at Monument Valley, the Grand Canyon and other iconic Western spots. 
 Modern cowgirls and cowboys of every age group and shape were hootin' and hollerin' at Club Rodeo, an acre-sized honky-tonk south of downtown near the airport. This is a friendly spot where fellow carousers will help you figure out some pretty elaborate two-stepping or waltzing to local ''red dirt bands'' whose country sounds are imbued with a blues-inspired twang. 
 The mood turned real cowpokey when the dance-floor lights went dark to be replaced by spotlights on a tennis-court-sized rodeo ring. The revelers shifted to the ring with their dollar beers, and some took turns trying to hang onto bucking broncos for longer than eight seconds. Loud cheers greeted Skunk, a black bull with a white stripe and a reputation for orneriness. The guy set to ride him decided to trade his cowboy hat for a helmet -- a smart idea. Three seconds later he was catapulted into the dust. The next ride started, and the crowd whooped it up. 
 Come to think of it, given that it seems to be having the ride of its life, one could say that about the whole city. 
 VISITOR INFORMATION
 WHERE TO STAY
 TheColcord (15 North Robinson Avenue, 405-601-4300; www.colcordhotel.com), in a converted 1910 office building; doubles start at $129.
 The Skirvin Hilton (1 Park Avenue; 405-272-3040; www.skirvinhilton.com), the city's grand hotel; doubles from $149.
 WHERE TO EAT 
 Cattlemen's Steakhouse (1309 South Agnew Avenue, 405-236-0416). Steak and eggs, $8.
 The Lobby Bar of the Will Rogers Theatre (4322 North Western Avenue, 405-604-4650). 
 WHAT TO SEE
 The Oklahoma City National Memorial and Museum (620 North Harvey Avenue, 405-235-3313).
 The National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum (1700 Northeast 63rd Street, 405-478-2250) is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; $10. 
 The Oklahoma City Museum of Art (415 Couch Drive, 405-236-3100); $12.
 Club Rodeo (2301 South Meridian Avenue, 405-686-1191).
 WHERE TO SHOP
 Mockingbird Manor Antiques (4417 North Western Avenue, 405-521-1212), a co-op with 30 vendors. 
 French Cowgirl (4514 North Western Avenue, 405-604-4696); the saddle-tooled cellphone holder is $42.95.
 Oklahoma Native Arts and Jewelry (1316 South Agnew Avenue, 405-604-9800).
 National Saddlery Company (1400 South Agnew Avenue, 405-239-2104).
 Shorty's CaboyHattery (1206 South Agnew Avenue, 405-232-4287).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CATTLEMEN'S CHIC: A selection at Shorty's Caboy Hattery.
MONUMENTS: ''The End of the Trail,'' left, a sculpture at the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum, and the Oklahoma City National Memorial, above.
 ON THE WATER: Taxi boats transport tourists on the Bricktown Canal in the city's revitalized riverfront district.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL HELLSTERN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Oklahoma City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC (78%); SCULPTURE (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (65%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (64%); FESTIVALS (62%); CHRISTMAS (60%); AIRPORTS (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



191 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Time for Iraq to Pay the Bill

 BODY:
It has been five years since Paul Wolfowitz, the former deputy defense secretary, offered his infamous assurance that Iraq would be able to finance its own reconstruction ''relatively soon.'' Now, finally, part of that prediction has come true. Iraq is awash in oil money. But it is still not spending it on reconstruction. 
 Federal analysts reported Tuesday that the oil market has produced a bonanza for Iraq, which has the third-largest reserves in the world. The report, by the Government Accountability Office, said that from 2005 to the end of this year, Iraq is expected to have earned at least $156 billion in oil revenues and amassed a budget surplus that could go as high as $79 billion. Roughly $29 billion of that surplus is piling up in Iraqi banks as well as in a fund at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that was supposed to be used for Iraqi development.
 In truth, Iraqis have had little incentive to spend their own money given the willingness of the United States Congress to keep writing blank checks for President Bush's disastrous adventure there. Congress has appropriated $48 billion for rebuilding in Iraq since 2003 and committed all but $6 billion of that amount, mostly for oil, electricity, water and security projects.
 By contrast, between 2005 and 2007, when all that oil revenue was piling up, only $3.9 billion of Iraq's budget went to reconstruction. An even tinier amount went to maintaining United States and Iraqi-financed projects like roads, bridges, buildings, water and electrical installations. That raises serious questions about the wisdom of making those capital investments in the first place if they are not going to be properly tended.
 One of the Bush administration's most damaging postinvasion decisions is at the heart of this problem. In its ill-considered dismissal of everybody who had any connection to Saddam Hussein's Baath Party, American overseers depleted the ranks of Iraqi bureaucrats who had the skills and experience to run an oil-producing country of about 27 million people.
 As the Congressional investigators found, Iraq now lacks the trained professionals to prepare and execute budgets and to solicit, award and oversee capital projects. The United States must redouble its efforts to help Iraq build this capacity, including bringing back skilled Iraqis who have fled the country. 
 Congress is finally losing patience with the indefensible image of Americans paying historic high gasoline prices while Iraq pockets huge profits and Americans underwrite Iraq's rebuilding. Like Democrat Carl Levin and Republican John Warner, members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, we question the Pentagon's decision to spend $33 million from an emergency fund on an economic zone at Baghdad International Airport. Iraq has committed $44.8 million to the project but should pay for the whole thing.
 It is good -- for Iraq and for the world economy -- that Iraq is getting back into the oil business. But it still has a long way to go before it fully assumes responsibility for itself and its future. That must include spending its own money for its own enormous and unfulfilled reconstruction needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); AIRPORTS (65%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



192 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Mars Breaks M&M's Out of Their Shell

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
M&M's may be an old brand, but it is not afraid to try new things. In recent years there have been several modern takes on the classic candy from 1941, including limited-edition flavors (cherry, mint crisp and raspberry), packages of all-green M&M's, and M&M's with customized messages and images that people can order through a Web site.
 But the latest innovation, M&M's Premiums, is a bigger departure. Mars Snackfood, which makes the candy, has changed not just one aspect of the M&M's, but everything from the formulation to the packaging, price and flavor.
 ''We've actually changed the recipe of M&M's as America and the world knows it,'' said Ryan Bowling, a spokesman for Mars Snackfood U.S. ''This is a whole new recipe, both visually and to its taste as well.'' 
 The candies themselves are fatter and less uniform than traditional M&M's. More radically, these M&M's have no candy shell -- just a shiny topcoat with a marbleized, almost metallic-looking finish in bright colors.
 There are five flavors -- mint chocolate, mocha, triple chocolate, raspberry almond and chocolate almond -- sold in a 6-ounce package for $3.99. Instead of lying in a rectangular brown bag, M&M's Premiums sit in an upright cardboard box with a clear window that shows off the candy.
 M&M's Premiums are already on store shelves, distributed to outlets where M&M's are sold, including convenience stores, supermarkets and mass chains like Target and Wal-Mart.
 Television spots will begin next week on major networks and channels like the Food Channel, AMC and the Hallmark Channel.
 ''Even just seeing one color of an M&M helps say, ooh that's something different,'' said Susan Credle, executive creative director at BBDO New York, which handles M&M's advertising.
 At first, the television ads that BBDO, part of the Omnicom Group, devised took the premium element very seriously.
 ''Some of the first creative I saw was very serious and indulgent, and treated the product like this very rich new M&M thing,'' Ms. Credle said.
 But she believed that M&M's candy was supposed to be fun. She revised the ads so that they parodied typical premium chocolate ads, and brought in a character -- a sexy green M&M -- that had been used in much of the traditional M&M's advertising. 
 ''My fear was, I didn't want to do just the product shot, and be devoid of the humor and fun of the brand,'' she said.
 In the first commercial, which features the triple chocolate flavor, a woman's voice talks about the candy in sensuous tones. Meanwhile, the green spokes-candy struts around the set, placing the candies on her lips, lounging on purple sheets, and tossing handfuls of candy at the camera.
 At the end of the spot, the green candy breaks character. ''Are we good?'' she asks a camera crew, played by red, yellow and blue M&M's. Transfixed by her sultry moves, the male candies can barely speak.
 The hope in making the commercial, Ms. Credle said, was that viewers would start to wonder, just before the green candy's outburst, '' 'Is this a serious commercial or is it supposed to be funny?' We assure you it's funny. No, we are not taking ourselves this seriously.'' 
 The print ads, meanwhile, show the various flavors of candies assembled into shapes like mint leaves or coffee beans. They will appear in publications aimed at women, like Better Homes and Gardens, InStyle and Martha Stewart Living.
 M&M's is also tying in samplings and a public relations campaign, including an event at New York Fashion Week in September. It hopes to attract a young, fashion-conscious consumer to the product, which is slightly more expensive than normal M&M's and does not have the same mouth feel. 
 Both distinctions are quite deliberate.
 ''We found that premium chocolate lovers want the smooth, creamy taste to be the first thing they taste in a chocolate product, so the smooth shell of M&M's Premiums enables them to taste the chocolate first,'' said Michele Kessler, vice president for marketing at Mars Snackfood. 
 The Mars research and development team came up with a new manufacturing technique to make the shell, she said. And some ingredients are different, so the candy can accept the shimmering finishes and exotic flavors.
 Mars hopes to capitalize on the demand for higher priced chocolate. Premium chocolate sales grew 17.8 percent for the year ended June 14, compared with 1.4 percent for nonpremium chocolate, according to the Nielsen Company. (The figures are for United States food, drug, and mass-merchandise stores, excluding Wal-Mart).
 But some people who have tasted the product and blogged about it were unnerved by the new formulation.
 ''So what is this new covering?'' wrote the reviewer Cybele on Candyblog. ''It's not exactly flavored, but dissolves quickly, but into rather unappealing waxy flakes.'' 
 Reviewers for The Onion's A.V. Club supplement wrote, ''It's richer and more crumbly (almost chalky in texture -- though not taste), not the firm stuff in its cheaper siblings.'' But ''once you get over the texture shock, M&M's Premiums are generally pretty tasty.''
 Ms. Kessler said she was not concerned about moving too far from the main M&M's product.
 ''They're still lentils, they still have the 'M' on them,'' she said. ''They're certainly colorful in a different way, but in a more premium way that reinforces what the product brings.''
 The brand has been successful in adding new products, said Bob Goldin, executive vice president of Technomic, a consultancy to the food industry. ''M&M's has incredible equity, and they seem to be able to extend it in lots of different ways, shapes, sizes, colors, even a little bit in the flavor arena,'' he said. 
 ''This is not a great environment to launch premium anything,'' he said, but ''I'd give it a fighting chance.''
 The full-blown introduction of M&M's Premium is also a departure for the brand. 
 Recently, M&M's introduced products tentatively, either by offering limited-edition candies or by using a movie tie-in as a popularity test. A larger-than-normal M&M was introduced in tandem with ''Shrek 2,'' and dark chocolate M&M's along with ''Star Wars Episode III, Revenge of the Sith.''
 ''Then, when those products do well, we decide if they should be mass-marketed,'' Ms. Credle of BBDO said. (Dark chocolate M&M's are now available nationally; the large M&M's got national distribution but have been discontinued.) But with the premium line, Mars is going all in from the start.
 ''We're going in as a permanent product, and we're putting a lot of marketing muscle behind it,'' Mr. Bowling said.
 Even in a sour economy, some premium products can sell well, said Mary Egan, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group. ''There's certainly going to be an initial trial, because people love the M&M's brand and there's such a strong market for premium chocolate,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The TV commercial features a character placing a candy on her lips, while a print ad for mint chocolate emulates the shape of a mint leaf. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (85%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); RETAILERS (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%)

COMPANY: MARS INC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (81%); BBDO NEW YORK (52%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



193 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section WT; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: In Retail Sales, More Signs of a Slowdown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Americans sought out more bargains and cheaper goods in July, leaving the nation's retailers bracing for a painful back-to-school shopping season and investors on Wall Street once again worried about the outlook for the economy.
 Retail sales reports released Thursday revealed a country that is rapidly ratcheting back its spending habits, and abandoning mid-tier and discount shopping mall mainstays that were booming a year ago. 
 The gloomy forecast helped depress stocks, particularly those in the retail sector, and the Dow Jones industrials were down about 220 points in late afternoon trading. Wal-Mart shares tumbled more than 6 percent, and American International Group, the big insurer, plunged nearly 20 percent for its worst one-day performance in nearly four decades. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was down about 1.8 percent and the Nasdaq about 0.5 percent.
 Also depressing the markets was a government report that said the number of newly laid off people seeking jobless benefits increased by a seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 455,000 last week, the highest level since late March 2002. 
 Among the retailers reporting sales on Thursday, the biggest surprise was a middling month for Wal-Mart Stores, the behemoth of the discount retail industry, which reported an increase in sales but missed Wall Street's estimates. Wal-Mart also warned that its sales would slow in August, as the stimulus from the government's tax rebates fades away.
 For months, sales at the big retail stores have been closely tracked as a gauge of trends in consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic growth. Retailers showed some resilience, with many stores beating sales estimates, in part, because of the government's tax rebates.
 But as the stimulus program winds down, few buffers will separate retailers from consumers struggling with higher fuel and food prices, a housing price collapse and a tight credit market.
 ''August is going to be continue to be tough; I don't think anybody made any bones about that,'' Todd D. Slater, a retail analyst at Lazard Capital Markets, said. 
 The back-to-school months are traditionally a major selling season for retailers, as parents and children scramble to pick up backpacks, new clothes and school supplies. But Mr. Slater predicted that this year, ''back to school is not going to happen.''
 ''Most kids will be returning to school in last year's duds,'' he said. 
 Consumer spending, which has slowed considerably, actually declined in June after adjusting for inflation, according to a report earlier this week from the Commerce Department. 
 The trends have been painful for many large retail chains; in July, Saks, Kohl's, J.C. Penney and Target all reported declines in sales at stores open at least a year, a closely watched indicator that is also known as ''same-store sales.''
 At Wal-Mart, sales were up 3 percent compared with a year ago. Analysts had expected a 3.4 percent increase. Including fuel sales, Wal-Mart reported a 1.3 percent rise in sales for the month. 
 A Wal-Mart executive blamed the end of the tax rebate program for the slowing sales trend. ''With the end of the stimulus checks, we know consumers are spending more cautiously,'' Eduardo Castro-Wright, the company's domestic president, said in a printed statement. He also said the company had seen trends suggesting that some customers were living paycheck-to-paycheck. 
 Gap, the mid-tier clothing outlet, said sales dipped 11 percent in July alone, worse than estimates had feared. Sales at its higher-end Banana Republic chain dropped 8 percent -- but Old Navy, which is aimed at a lower-tier crowd, saw sales fall 16 percent.
 Costco, which sells a wide range of goods at its warehouse-style stores, performed well, beating estimates with a 10 percent increase in July sales. Shares of Costco were trading higher.
 Limited Inc. sales fell 5 percent; Target said sales fell 1.2 percent. Saks was off 5.3 percent; Kohl's fell 10 percent; and J.C. Penney declined 6.5 percent.
 The weak labor market, which has played a big role in the cutback in consumer spending, has shown few signs of improvement. The Labor Department said on Thursday that new claims for unemployment benefits rose last week to its highest level in six years. New applications rose by a seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 455,000 for the week ending Aug. 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); HOME PRICES (62%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



194 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GOING DOWN THE ROAD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Eccentricity Fuels a Revival of Vermont's River Towns

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
BELLOWS FALLS, Vt. -- Few people would describe Stephen McAllister as conventional.
After all, he once jumped out the window of his 11th-grade English class during a discussion of ''Don Quixote'' that he considered ''particularly boring,'' getting himself expelled from school in the process.
Now, Mr. McAllister has a plan that may seem as quixotic. At age 59, he has returned to this gritty river village, buying an abandoned paper mill on the Internet that he is turning into an eco-resort, a go-to place for ''green marriages, green bar mitzvahs and carbon-neutral vacations.''
It is the kind of entrepreneurially eccentric idea that writers of a Depression era federal guide to Vermont found flourishing back then, especially in this southeastern sliver of the state along the Connecticut River, which has long bubbled with a kind of creative chutzpah. 
Vermont, the authors suggested, was not just a state, but a state of mind.
''Vermont apologists have defended this attitude as the very essence of liberty,'' they wrote. ''Outside observers have considered it as a consistent manifestation of unenlightened perversity.''
Revisiting some of the river towns nowadays finds them trying to rebound from factory closings, farm consolidations and fading Main Streets by again embracing idiosyncratic ideas, and drawing on the bedrock that once made these towns vibrant: the river, the railroad and a hardy independent streak.
Consider the colorful characters in the 1937 guide, a nationwide writers' project sponsored by the Works Progress Administration that has been republished online and is attracting new public attention.
In Brattleboro, there was Dr. Robert Wesselhoeft, a German political refugee, who established the ''water cure,'' a mineral spring attracting far-flung folks with frayed nerves, reportedly including opposites like Stonewall Jackson and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
In Bellows Falls, Henrietta Howland Robinson Green, an investor then considered the richest woman in America, reportedly did not change her undergarments until they had worn out, rebuffed heat and hot water, and refused to pay for a doctor to treat her son's broken leg, which was eventually amputated. (The site of this miser's home is now a bank.)
And in Putney, John Humphrey Noyes, a ''magnetic, elusive, and provocative'' religious fanatic, wrote in 1847 that '' 'there is no more reason why sexual intercourse should be restrained by law, than why eating and drinking should be' '' and ''led his followers from communism of property, through communism of households, to communism of love, or, as he called it, complex marriage,'' the guide said.
''There has always been real creativity and real eccentricity and independent thought,'' said Dona Brown, an associate professor of history at the University of Vermont. ''People who had a big idea and went with it,'' often exhibiting ''a tinkering or artisanal quality.''
''They had this idea that they could fix things, even fix humanity,'' Professor Brown said.
That spirit seemed to come in bursts, usually after economic hard times. The early 1900s spawned manufacturing masterminds; the 1960s, following a postwar slump, drew back-to-the-land hippies.
Now, that cycle is recurring. In Brattleboro, when people ''saw the regular businesses not being viable, they really wanted to make sure Brattleboro didn't suffer,'' said Elsie Smith, 37, who, with her twin sister and trapeze partner, Serenity Smith Forchion, started the New England Center for Circus Arts in a defunct cotton mill, where arts-related businesses were offered low rents.
The mill's strong beams allow circus folks to ''hang off them without worrying too much about bringing the ceiling down,'' Ms. Smith said. More importantly, here, ''you're not odd or weird or strange for being a circus performer.''
In Bellows Falls, ''by the mid-1990s, 75 percent of the stores were vacant,'' said Robert McBride, a painter who has helped convert derelict buildings into housing and studios for artists, igniting an economic resurgence. ''People were saying we needed to get a mill back, bring back in a big company. Wasn't going to happen. So we brought artists to the table.''
Among them is Denny Partridge, who returned here after decades in New York to perform plays in bakeries and other offbeat venues during the ''mud season'' of late winter and early spring. ''I've always had a theory that art exists best in places where life is hard,'' she said.
A group from Brooklyn, ''So Percussion,'' has been commissioned to write and perform music on a Bellows Falls boxcar and in Brattleboro's train station. Their ''instruments'' -- oil drums, paper spools, pipes, bicycle wheels -- echo the town's industrial past.
Professor Brown said the 1937 guide, influenced and partly written by Dorothy Canfield Fisher, ''spends a lot of time highlighting odd historical aspects'' of Vermont, as if to say ''even if the milk check is cut in half and factories are shut, these are your roots, this is your heritage, these are your resources you can draw on.''
Some landmarks noted in the guide are making a comeback.
Take Naulakha, the house in Dummerston, where Rudyard Kipling wrote ''Captains Courageous'' and ''The Jungle Book,'' and where he apparently introduced skiing to Vermont using skis from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Kipling left in 1896 after a public spat with his ne'er-do-well brother-in-law, and for decades the house went unused. Now, vacationers can sleep in Kipling's bed, flush his toilet tank, scribble at his writing desk.
A factory started in 1846 by Jacob Estey, who ran away from an orphanage and became the world's largest maker of reed organs, closed in 1960, but it, too, is being revived.
In its heyday, ''thousands of American women sewed till the small hours, picked berries under a blazing sun or rented the spare room, and saved their egg money in a cracked teapot on the top shelf with just one goal in mind: a black walnut Estey organ in the parlor,'' the guide rhapsodized.
Now, Estey reed and pipe organs from around the world have been reclaimed by the fledgling Estey Organ Museum in Brattleboro. Ned Phoenix, an organ restorer, refurbishes them, sometimes holding ''organ bees,'' like quilting bees, inviting the community to help fix up the instruments. The museum is also restoring a pipe organ that visitors will be able to walk through.
Easy to reach from urban centers like New York but unspoiled enough to feel remote, these towns beckoned unconventional types. Unlike other parts of New England, where ''people from away'' never really become equals, newcomers here are woven into the fabric -- like the '60s back-to-the-landers who set up communes, learned farming from books and weathered winters so harsh no mail was delivered.
''You had your problem-solving skills, your cussedness, and your neighbors, and a kind of wonderful, chastening place to be,'' said Verandah Porche, 62, a poet (nee Linda Jacobs, originally from New Jersey), who still lives at Total Loss Farm in Guilford, now a multigenerational homestead.
These days, a back-to-the-river movement hopes to reinvigorate the region with boating, fishing and other activities, said David L. Deen, a Democratic state representative who was out rowing recently. For decades, the river was ''a sewer, and the smoke from the mills filled it up,'' said Artie Aiken, 95, of Westminster, who worked the railroad, drove ''four horses on a tater digger'' and risked his life saving a farmer's cows in a 1936 flood.
Still, the ambition of Mr. McAllister's eco-resort, Liberty Mill, has surprised locals in this struggling town, whose lodging choices now include the Hetty Green motel -- not exactly the green Mr. McAllister has in mind. ''Avoid at all costs,'' said one traveler in a review of the motel on Trip Advisor. Liberty Mills plans to offer an Olympic-quality kayak race course, a skate park and a pool where a coal furnace once fumed; photovoltaic, wood pellet and geothermal power; and compost toilets for guests that will fertilize a farm growing food for the resort.
''When I first heard about it, I was flabbergasted that anyone could think they could pull that off,'' said Jim Mullen, the town manager of Rockingham, which includes Bellows Falls. But, he added, ''the community here always says 'just go for it.' ''
Going Down the Road: This is the third in a series of articles that revisits states and landmarks in the American Guide travel book series.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALONG THE RIVER: Enjoying a river near Bellows Falls, Vt. The town and other river towns in the state, featured in a Depression era travel guide, are being reborn.
RELOCATING, TO HOME: Verandah Porche, a 62-year-old poet originally from New Jersey, lives at Total Loss Farm in Guilford, Vt.
IMPROVISING: At the train station in Bellows Falls, Vt., a band makes music with unconventional instruments.
HOME TO MANY: Total Loss Farm, a multigenerational homestead in Guilford, along the Connecticut River.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 POLISHING HISTORY: The Estey Organ Company in 1927 in Brattleboro, Vt. Today, the Estey Organ Museum is home to old reed and pipe organs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFTON ADAMS/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC) MAP: Map details area of Bellows Falls. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); RESORTS (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING (70%); PAPER MILLS (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); HISTORY (69%); RELIGION (60%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (57%); REFUGEES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



195 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Coalition Moves to Impeach Musharraf, Raising Fears of Crisis

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan --A move by the civilian leadership on Thursday to impeach President Pervez Musharraf left Pakistan on the brink of a political crisis that threatened to paralyze the government at a critical moment when the United States is demanding greater action against militants based in this country.
The governing coalition set no formal deadline for the start of impeachment proceedings against Mr. Musharraf, a favored American ally, leaving open the possibility of a protracted and debilitating political fight that could take months of haggling to secure the parliamentary votes needed for impeachment.
It also raised the threat that Mr. Musharraf would try to dissolve Parliament or that he would look to the army for protection, though many analysts said the military was unlikely to intervene. ''The army preference is not to get involved and for the constitutional process to be followed so there is the least amount of disruption to the system,'' said Shuja Nawaz, the author of ''Crossed Swords'' (Oxford University Press), a book on the Pakistani military. ''They would not want to be drawn into it.'' 
The announcement that the civilian leaders would seek impeachment, made at a news conference here, was the culmination of months of wrenching political changes after the assassination of the opposition leader Benazir Bhutto in December and the decisive victory of her party in elections in February. Since then, the leaders of the country's two major parties, Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif, have forged a tense governing coalition that has teetered on collapse.
Mr. Zardari, the head of the Pakistan Peoples Party, and Mr. Sharif, the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, have barely been on speaking terms. For the last several days, they had been closeted in meetings on how to keep their coalition together.
Mr. Sharif, who was ousted as prime minister by Mr. Musharraf in a 1999 coup, has pushed Mr. Zardari to join impeachment proceedings against the president. Mr. Zardari had resisted. But this week he apparently decided that the one way to keep the coalition functioning was to undertake a frontal attack on Mr. Musharraf, who is immensely unpopular here after having led Pakistan as the head of the army for eight years, until the end of 2007.
On Thursday, the two coalition leaders issued a joint communique saying that their government would ''immediately initiate impeachment proceedings'' and that it would ''present a charge sheet against General Musharraf.'' Mr. Musharraf was described by his allies as determined to fight back, and met all day on Thursday with his political backers and his constitutional lawyer, Syed Sharifuddin Pirzada. In an indication of the gravity of his situation, the president called off his trip to attend the opening of the Olympic Games.
Many Pakistani officials said they believed that Mr. Musharraf would seek support from the Bush administration. It has endowed Pakistan with more than $12 billion of mostly military aid since 9/11 for its cooperation in combating the insurgency of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, which is washing over the border into Afghanistan and attacking American troops there.
The effectiveness of that cooperation has been called into question, most recently by American officials who presented Pakistan with evidence that its spy agency played a part in the bombing of the Indian Embassy in Afghanistan in July.
But Mr. Musharraf, a dominant, outspoken and sometimes cavalier figure, has enjoyed a personal rapport with Mr. Bush, who has leaned on the president as his principal support here.
Publicly, the State Department called the bid to impeach Mr. Musharraf an ''internal'' Pakistani matter. ''Our expectation is that any action will be consistent with the rule of law and the Pakistani Constitution,'' said Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department spokesman. But privately, one administration official said that Mr. Musharraf's influence within Pakistan had all but evaporated since he removed his army uniform at the end of last year and since the sweeping defeat of his party in elections this year.
While Mr. Bush has kept up his relations with Mr. Musharraf -- including regular telephone conversations -- the administration has also been trying to build its relations with the new Pakistani government.
That effort, the administration official said, has yet to bear much fruit. The official requested anonymity because he did not want to be seen commenting publicly on internal Pakistani affairs.
Looking for new political levers, a succession of the administration's most senior military and intelligence officials have visited Pakistan in recent months, but they have focused their attention on Mr. Musharraf's successor as army chief of staff, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
General Kayani has pledged to keep the army out of politics -- a rare promise in Pakistan -- and it seemed doubtful that the army would come to the rescue of a diminished Mr. Musharraf, said Mr. Nawaz, the author, who is based in Washington but is currently visiting Pakistan, where he met with senior military officers.
The army under General Kayani wanted to protect its institutional interests, not one personality, he said.
Others agreed. As president, Mr. Musharraf has the power under the Constitution to dismiss the Parliament, but in practice he would have to have the acquiescence of the military, said Senator Tariq Azim Khan, a former minister of information in the Musharraf government. That support would probably not be offered, he said.
After the news conference of the two civilian leaders, Ahsan Iqbal, the spokesman for Mr. Sharif, said the impeachment proceedings would be completed ''in the next couple of weeks.'' But there was wide skepticism that things would proceed so neatly.
A constitutional lawyer, Babar Sattar, who writes frequently about the need for democracy in Pakistan, said that Mr. Zardari had already broken a pledge to restore judges dismissed by Mr. Musharraf. There was little reason to believe he would push ahead with the impeachment. ''Why should we believe him this time?'' Mr. Sattar asked.
Impeachment proceedings were indeed uncharted waters: no Pakistani president has been impeached, politicians said. But there is a clear process laid out in the Constitution, lawyers said, and it involves two steps.
First, the coalition would need at least half the members of either the upper or lower house of Parliament to pass an impeachment resolution, they said.
Then, two-thirds of both houses of Parliament, sitting together, would have to vote actually to remove Mr. Musharraf from office on the basis of whatever charges are presented against him.
Coalition officials said they were sure they had 305 votes, 10 more than the 295 required. But others said the 10-vote margin could probably be reduced by a determined Mr. Musharraf. ''That's not a very comfortable majority,'' Mr. Sattar said.
The impeachment move comes amid growing public concern that the four-month-old government has failed to deal with the problems facing the country, including an economic crisis and the expanding Taliban insurgency.
While an apparent attempt by the coalition to reinvigorate and bolster itself, the move could just as easily embroil and distract it and bleed the government of energy, some warned.
A former member of Parliament, Ishaq Khan Khakwani, who resigned from the Musharraf cabinet last year, suggested that the coalition government was unleashing a process that could cause significant turmoil.
''An elected government was meant to bring stability; unfortunately it is destabilizing Pakistan,'' Mr. Khakwani said.
Still, a poll by the International Republican Institute in June showed that 85 percent of Pakistanis believed that the president should resign.
While they have yet to be announced, the charges against the president are likely to center on the legality of his election to his current five-year term and his emergency decree last fall.
Mr. Musharraf argues that he was elected democratically last October, according to the politicians who support him. But the ruling coalition government disputes the legality of that vote, which was held by the outgoing Parliament and provincial assemblies dominated by the president's supporters. Moreover, the coalition says that Mr. Musharraf's emergency decree last November was unconstitutional, as was his dismissal of nearly 60 judges, including the chief justice of the Supreme Court.
One of the politicians who is part of the bloc in Parliament that seemed up for grabs by both sides said in a telephone interview on Thursday that he had instructed his colleagues to be in favor of impeachment.
The politician, Munir Khan Orakzai, who represents the Kurram district in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas where the Taliban insurgency has gathered strength, said Mr. Musharraf was to blame for the problems. ''He has made things worse for us,'' Mr. Orakzai said.
Another member of the national assembly from the tribal areas, Kamran Khan Wazir from North Waziristan, said Mr. Musharraf should not wait for impeachment. He should resign first, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Wednesday, Pakistanis walked past a picture of President Pervez Musharraf on the outskirts of Islamabad. Mr. Musharraf canceled his trip to the Olympics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Nawaz Sharif, left, and Asif Ali Zardari, who head Pakistan's coalition government, held a news conference in Islamabad. (POOL PHOTO BY T. MUGHAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); WRITERS (67%); OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (93%); NAWAZ SHARIF (89%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (89%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011



196 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank Leaves Rate at 4.25%

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank on Thursday left its benchmark interest rate unchanged even as it acknowledged that the region's economy was straining under the pressure of high energy prices and slower global growth. 
 Only a month after the bank bucked the trend of major central banks by lifting rates a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent to combat inflation, the central bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said that high oil prices were sapping purchasing power from consumers in the 15-nation euro area. 
 Combined with the global slowdown that is largely an outgrowth of the slowdown in the United States, Mr. Trichet said European fears have become reality. 
 ''We knew there were risks,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''Those risks are materializing.'' 
 Also on Thursday, the Bank of England held steady on its key interest rate, in this case at 5 percent, as it sought to balance its twin goals of keeping inflation under control while bolstering a British economy that might be nearing its first recession since the early 1990s. 
 Despite the downbeat tone, the European Central Bank gave little sign that it might cut interest rates. Instead, it emphasized the risks that energy prices and wages pose to inflation, which hit 4.1 percent in the year to July, the highest rate since the euro was created a decade ago. Slower growth, Mr. Trichet cautioned, does not necessarily cool inflation. 
 The euro fell against the dollar after Mr. Trichet's remarks, sliding as low as $1.53. 
 The central bank is holding rates steady as a stream of data shows that the European economy has slowed sharply in the last few months. The development reflects a much weaker outlook in Germany, which accounts for a third of the output of the 15-nation euro area. 
 German industrial orders tumbled in June, data released this week showed, providing strong evidence that the backbone of the euro area's economy is buckling. High energy and food prices are slicing into purchasing power in Germany, preventing a rebound of household consumption that could soften the blow of slower demand for its exports. 
 Most economists expect the German economy, which grew 1.5 percent in the first quarter, to be flat or up only modestly for much of the rest of the year. 
 Along the euro area's southern tier, the chronically stagnant Italy has been joined by Spain, where the bursting of a construction and real estate bubble is likely to bring a recession. Business and consumer confidence has also tumbled in France recently. 
 On Thursday, fresh economic data underlined the grim outlook, with France running a record trade deficit in June and Italian industrial output growing a meager 0.1 percent in June. 
 Economists now see the possibility of a recession in the euro area, in which output may be flat or negative for two quarters, even as employment remains fairly steady. 
 ''I wouldn't rule out that there would be a recession that doesn't really feel like one,'' said Erik F. Nielsen, chief economist for Europe at Goldman Sachs. 
 Britain may be in even worse shape, analysts said. Its economy almost ground to a halt in the quarter through July, when it grew a mere 0.1 percent. Real estate repossessions increased 40 percent in the first three months of 2008. The Bank of England, however, has kept borrowing costs at 5 percent for four consecutive months, worried about an annual inflation rate that is nearly double its target of 2 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the central bank.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



197 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2435 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 BEIJING'S ROOTLESS WORKERS
 Get Olympic Uninvitation
 As Beijing readied itself for the pageantry and the fireworks of Friday night's opening ceremonies for the Olympic Games, its main train station was packed with truck drivers, food vendors and other workers departing because of a lack of work and an unwritten government policy encouraging migrant workers to clear out until the dignitaries and journalists have gone home. Overhead hung a banner saying, ''Participate in the Olympics, Enjoy the Fun.'' PAGE A9
 CHINA REBUFFS BUSH CRITICISM
 President Bush arrived in Beijing eager to shift his focus to Olympic sports, only hours after China pointedly rebuffed his criticism of the country's record on human rights. He had praised China's modernization but expressed ''deep concerns'' over restrictions on faith and free speech. The curt response from Chinese officials amounted to, ''Mind your own business.'' PAGE A9 
 EXPLOSION NEAR RUSSIAN RESORT
 An explosion killed at least two people on a beach close to Sochi, the resort town where Russia will host the 2014 Winter Olympics, the local police said. The police said that ''an unidentified explosive device'' detonated in Loo, a village about 15 miles from Sochi. The blast occurred about 10 a.m., when the beaches were mostly empty, a police statement said. PAGE A10 
 HOW WOULD ISAIAH SAY IT?
 The revival of spoken Hebrew after 1,700 years largely of disuse is often hailed as one of the greatest feats of the Zionist enterprise. But some people worry that the common language may already be in decline, popularized to the point where many Israelis can no longer cope with the rich complexities of traditional Hebrew prose like that used in early biblical texts. PAGE A7
 VIDEO SAID TO THREATEN GAMES
 A terrorist group seeking an independent Muslim state in western China has released a video threatening an attack on the Olympic Games, according to an American organization that tracks terrorist Internet posts. The video's opening graphics show a burning Olympic logo and an explosion superimposed over one of the athletic sites, said the monitoring organization, IntelCenter, based in Alexandria, Va. PAGE A10
 DALAI LAMA MEETING DELAYED
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who will attend the opening ceremonies of the Beijing Olympic Games despite domestic criticism, announced that he would not meet the Dalai Lama later this month in France. Instead, his wife will, taking part in a religious ceremony to open a Buddhist temple in southern France on Aug. 22. Mr. Sarkozy's political party, however, said the president would meet the Dalai Lama before the end of the year. PAGE A9
 national
 RADIO HOSTS PLAY UP DENVER
 As Democratic Epicenter
 With the city abuzz over the Democratic National Convention coming to town this month, two of Denver's most popular hosts, of the show ''Caplis & Silverman,'' have all but stopped debating the regular lineup of salacious Colorado stories and instead taken to arguing over the presidential election. ''The convention has made Denver the political epicenter of the Democratic Party, and we are Denver,'' said Craig Silverman, above, a co-host. PAGE A15
 CLINTON'S ROLE AT THE CONVENTION
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton asked the question herself, on the last night of the primaries in June: ''What does Hillary want?'' That is still a bit of a mystery, particularly as she and Senator Barack Obama negotiate the delicate question of her role, and possibly that of her husband, at the Democratic convention in Denver and in the campaign beyond. PAGE A15
 GROUP TO CONFRONT DONORS
 Nearly 10,000 of the biggest donors to Republican candidates and causes across the country will probably receive a foreboding ''warning'' letter in the mail next week. Led by Tom Matzzie, a veteran liberal political operative who has been involved with some of the left's most prominent independent efforts in recent years, the newly formed nonprofit group, Accountable America, is planning to aggressively confront donors to conservative groups and the letters are only the beginning. PAGE A15
 INQUIRY IN HELICOPTER CRASH
 Federal investigators said they would look into reports that a helicopter ferrying firefighters over a Northern California blaze struck a tree moments before crashing and exploding, killing nine people in one of the nation's deadliest wildfire-related accidents. PAGE A13
 DETROIT MAYOR GOES TO JAIL
 Detroit Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick was sent to the county jail to spend at least one night there as punishment for violating his bond, leaving Michigan without court approval. Mayor Kilpatrick is fighting perjury and other felony charges and has refused calls to resign. PAGE A11
 POPULAR HOUSTON PASTOR IS SUED
 As co-pastor of Lakewood Church, one of the nation's largest and fastest growing mega-churches, Victoria Osteen preaches about love and acceptance to more than 40,000 congregants every Sunday. But a Continental Airlines flight attendant contends that Ms. Osteen assaulted her and has filed a civil suit. Ms. Osteen's lawyer rejected her account and characterized the case as ''extortion masquerading as a lawsuit.'' PAGE A13
 Christian Church Sues Washington A17 
 Ruling in American Indian Case A16 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 REAL ESTATE EXECUTIVES LOOK
 To Block Pro-Tenant Measures
 Anticipating a Democratic takeover of the New York State Senate this fall, real estate executives have begun courting (and stepping up their campaign donations to) Senate Democratic leaders, hoping to block or water down an array of pro-tenant measures, including the repeal of vacancy decontrol, that have already passed the Democratic-controlled Assembly. PAGE C11 
 PATERSON TRYING TO CURB SPENDING
 Gov. David A. Paterson has vetoed 34 bills in an effort to curb new spending, according to documents released. He has sounded an alarm in recent weeks over the state's fiscal woes, specifically a $26.2 billion deficit over the next three years. But many Assembly Democrats and labor-backed groups have begun accusing him of turning his back on his liberal roots. PAGE C12 
 EFFORT TO HELP HOMELESS LAGS
 In 2004, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg set out to reduce the number of homeless people by two-thirds in five years partly by building more housing for the poor and putting more money into prevention services. But a report by the city's Independent Budget Office, found that almost as many families were living in city shelters last March as when the mayor unveiled his proposal. PAGE C11 
 SPORTS
 FAVRE IS JUST THE LATEST
 In Quarterback Departures
 Brett Favre joins a number of other acclaimed but aging quarterbacks shown the door by their longtime employers, Dave Anderson notes in Sports of The Times. Among them are Joe Montana, Joe Namath, Johnny Unitas and Y.A. Tittle. ''But the real question is,'' Anderson adds, ''which of those four is Favre most likely to emulate in the next season or two.'' PAGE C15 
 SWIMMING AGAINST THE TIDE
 The 200-meter freestyle would figure to be the gimme gold in Michael Phelps's program, being the No. 1 seed by nearly two seconds. But then there's history: since 1900, an athlete from the United States has held the world record in the men's 200 freestyle in every decade except the 1990s. But Americans have won only three Olympic gold medals in that span and none since Bruce Furniss led a United States sweep in 1976 (the event was not included in the Games from 1906 through 1964). PAGE C19 
 AIRING DIFFERENCES
 The president of the International Olympic Committee said Chinese authorities had ''done everything feasible and humanly possible'' to clean the air for the Olympics. But a professor of environmental medicine at the New York University School of Medicine, said that the Chinese may call the air good, ''but in the U.S., we're in the 'unhealthy for everyone' category.'' PAGE C15 
 OBITUARIES
 SIMON GRAY, 71
 He wrote bitingly comic plays like ''Butley,'' ''Otherwise Engaged'' and ''Quartermaine's Terms'' about the educated British middle class and his almost manically confessional late-in-life memoirs turned his sardonic intelligence upon himself. PAGE C14
 BUSINESS
 RETAILERS LOOK TO FUTURE,
 And Don't Like It, Either
 New sales figures revealed a country that is rapidly ratcheting back its spending habits, piling up credit card debt and abandoning midtier shopping mall mainstays that were booming just a year ago. With the government done mailing out tax rebates, retailers forecast more bad things to come. ''We're looking to find where other sources of income will come for consumers to spend, but it's difficult to tell,'' one analyst said. PAGE C1
 IF YOU GOT IT, SPEND IT
 Viktor Pinchuk, the second-richest man in Ukraine, is busily trying to spend his way from grasping, post-Soviet oligarch to international mover and shaker. Few of his fellow billionaires have been as blatantly using art, philanthropy, public policy and even rock 'n' roll ($5 million for a Paul McCartney concert in Kiev) to advance their agenda. PAGE C1
 TRUCK SALES LAG FOR TOYOTA
 Toyota Motor, Japan's largest automaker, said that its worldwide net income for the quarter fell 28 percent, its biggest slide in profit in about five years. Most of the shortfall, the company said, was the result of slumping sales of its Tundra pickup truck and S.U.V.'s made and sold in North America. The automaker did improve its market share in the United States in the quarter, though its sales volumes declined. PAGE C7
 SLOWDOWN REACHES BRITAIN
 After 17 years of uninterrupted growth, the British economy is moving closer to recession, and may already be in one. Figures released by Britain's largest mortgage lender showed the housing market slump is gathering pace. Inflation looms. Over all, the economy is in poorer shape than most in Europe, with the exception of Spain's and Ireland's, because of its heavy reliance on housing and financial services. PAGE C1
 ETHANOL LEVELS HELD STEADY
 The Environmental Protection Agency rejected a request to cut the federal government's quota for the use of ethanol in cars, concluding, at least for now, that cutting oil use is more important than any effect on food prices. Farmers say that the jump in corn prices has been driven more by growing demand for grain-fed meat and their own higher costs for diesel fuel. PAGE C4
 AMERICAN RAISES FEES
 American Airlines, the largest domestic carrier, announced new fees and higher mileage requirements for upgrades and free tickets under its frequent flier program. The fees for upgrades from discounted coach seats -- which the airline called ''co-payments'' -- will be nonrefundable in case a trip is canceled. PAGE C4 
 Europe Holds Rates Steady C7
 Why Firms Decide to Leave C1
 ESCAPES
 DESIGNING A LOOK
 With an Eye on Renters
 With the vacation home rental market heating up, the competition to attract renters has expanded to include decor, style and historical accuracy. After all, who would want a place in Savannah, Ga., that didn't look like old Savannah? PAGE F1 
 RENDEZVOUS REDUX
 Any jets in the sky might signal the 21st century, but on the ground it is 1825. The housing is tents, the food roasts on spits, the firearms use black powder, and mead is consumed. What's happening is a re-enactment of the kind of gatherings fur traders had when the country was young and sport involved throwing knives, not balls. PAGE F1 
 Weekend
 PASSION AND APOCALYPSE:
 A Printmaker's Legacy
 Forcing materials like wood and metal to yield sumptuous imagery was Albrecht Durer's gift. In ''Albrecht Durer: Art in Translation,'' at the Museum of Biblical Art in Manhattan, 106 of his prints show angels, demons, Adam and Eve, the sundering of paradise and the Four Horsemen themselves. Avail yourself of one of the magnifying glasses. The devil really is in the details. PAGE E25 
 NOTES FOR BRICK, MELODY FOR MORTAR
 If anybody could stack sound on the vertical and stand upon it, it might be Sonny Rollins. At the Central Park Summer Stage, Mr. Rollins gave a performance that was all about soloing. He improvised stretchy ballads outside of the song's melody, Ben Ratfliff writes. PAGE E3 
 FOR LOVE OF MAN'S BEST FRIEND
 It was unwise to harass the old man who was minding his own business fishing, but it was stupid to shoot his dog. In ''Red,'' Brian Cox portrays a Korean War veteran who has settled in rural Oregon, and his only companion is his dog Red. When a local tough shoots the dog out of spite, the events that follow spiral into an ever-darkening melange of revenge and violence, Stephen Holden writes. PAGE E8 
 SOMEBODY REALLY SHOULD FIX THAT
 If the BBC had its way, we could blame the space-time continuum for just about everything, including giant lobster-looking things that are taking over the world. ''Primeval'' features the aforementioned extra-large crustaceans, which apparently have arrived via holes in the fabric of space and time to terrorize England. An intrepid zoologist and his crack-team are battling the foe, bureaucrats, and trying to figure out what the zoologist's wife is doing back from the dead, Ginia Bellafante writes. PAGE E16
 Editorial
 TIME FOR IRAQ TO PAY THE BILL
 It has been five years since Paul D. Wolfowitz offered his infamous assurance that Iraq would be able to finance its own reconstruction ''relatively soon.'' Now, Iraq is awash in oil money. But it is still not spending it on reconstruction. PAGE A18
 IDENTIFYING THE ANTHRAX KILLER
 The F.B.I. seems convinced that it has solved the case of who mailed the anthrax letters that killed five people in 2001. Yet the evidence leaves us uncertain about whether investigators have pulled off a brilliant coup or are prematurely declaring victory. PAGE A18
 FOOTBALL FANTASY AT RUTGERS
 In a logical world, Rutgers University officials would swallow their egos and admit that their push to become a big-time football power was ill conceived. But logic has not been a noticeable trait there -- nor in the State Legislature. PAGE A18
 op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The debate on energy policy has helped me find the words for something I've been thinking about for a while. The Republicans, once hailed as the ''party of ideas,'' have become the party of know-nothing politics. PAGE A19
 DAVID BROOKS
 On or about June 29, 2007, human character changed. That, of course, was the release date of the first iPhone. On that date, media displaced culture. PAGE A19
 CRAZY EIGHTS
 In honor of 8/8/08, Ben Schott, a contributing columnist, offers a collection of notable octads. PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); RESORTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); TRUCK DRIVERS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); WRITERS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); BEACHES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



198 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Bush Praises China but Continues Rebuke During Embassy Dedication in Beijing

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Thomas Fuller contributed reporting from Bangkok.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
President Bush rebuked China over political and religious freedoms for a second day on Friday, though he tempered his criticism with effusive praise for the country's history and embraced its hosting of the Olympic Games.
 At a dedication ceremony of the new United States Embassy in Beijing, a sleek, sprawling compound that is bigger than all but the one in the fortified Green Zone in Baghdad, Mr. Bush said that the embassy, still unfinished, reflected the progress the two countries had made since President Nixon's historic opening in the 1970s ended decades of cold-war hostility and isolation.
 ''To me it speaks of the importance of our relations with China,'' he said. ''It reflects the solid foundation underpinning our relations. It is a commitment to strengthen that foundation for years to come.''
 Mr. Bush's remarks came a day after China pointedly rebuffed his criticism of the country's record on human rights. 
 Responding to a speech by Mr. Bush on Thursday, in which he praised China's modernization but expressed ''deep concerns'' over restrictions on faith and free speech, the Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a curt statement that bristled with anger over ''any words or acts that interfere in other countries' internal affairs.''
 ''The Chinese government puts people first, and is dedicated to maintaining and promoting its citizens' basic rights and freedom,'' said the statement by Qin Gang, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, as translated by The Associated Press. ''Chinese citizens have freedom of religion. These are indisputable facts.''
 With his appearance at the Olympic Games, Mr. Bush is seeking to balance his advocacy for democracy and political liberty with his desire to cultivate cooperation with China's leaders on a variety of economic, diplomatic and security issues.
 Mr. Bush described relations with China as ''constructive, cooperative and candid,'' and he echoed the criticisms of his speech on Thursday in Bangkok in which he urged China's leaders not to fear faith or free expression, though he did so in Beijing in a milder tone.
 ''We'll continue to be candid about our mutual global responsibilities,'' he said at the embassy dedication, which was attended by senior Chinese diplomats. ''We must work together to protect the environment and help people in the developing world, continue to be candid about our belief that all people should have the freedom to say what they think and worship as they choose. We strongly believe societies which allow the free expression of ideas tend to be the most prosperous and the most peaceful.'' 
 Even as Mr. Bush traveled through Asia on his way here, China continued what opponents have called a pre-Olympic crackdown. The United States formally protested, to little avail so far, China's revoking of a visa for Joey Cheek, who won a gold medal in speedskating at the 2006 Turin Games and who is a co-founder of Team Darfur, a group of athletes trying to call attention to China's support of Sudan in its conflict in the Darfur region. 
 ''It's slower than we would like,'' the White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said of China's response. ''And they're actually running out of time to be able to rectify it, but we continue to press them.''
 Mr. Bush, accompanied by his wife, Laura, and their daughter Barbara, arrived in Beijing at 8:30 p.m. Thursday, descending the stairs from Air Force One into a riotous crowd of officials, security officers and photographers. The president's visit was, in fact, a family affair. His father, brother Marvin and sister Doro Bush Koch also joined him in Beijing.
 The embassy reception was a reunion of sorts for the old China hands of a previous generation, those responsible for the opening and still influential among those advocating close relations despite differences over human rights and other issues. They included Henry A. Kissinger, the secretary of state under President Nixon, and the first President Bush, who was the chief American representative to the country after President Nixon's outreach. Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers, a country band with close ties to the Bush family, provided American music for the reception.
 The first President Bush, introducing his son, reflected on the changes that had occurred since he arrived in 1974. 
 ''The bicycles that used to dominate the roads have given way to more cars,'' he said. ''And then when you come to this magnificent 'Bird's Nest,' the National Stadium, and the other architectural features that now dominate the landscape here, there can be no question that China has achieved something truly special in readying itself to host these games. It is just simply remarkable.''
 Later on Friday, Mr. Bush is scheduled to attend a lunch hosted for visiting foreign leaders by the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, and then the opening ceremonies, which many advocates have urged Mr. Bush to boycott.
 Mr. Bush will hold formal meetings with Mr. Hu and other senior Chinese leaders on Sunday.
 While Mr. Bush's aides say he intends neither to politicize the Olympics nor to mute his differences with China's leaders, he has both angered the Chinese and disappointed their critics.
 The Chinese Foreign Ministry statement on Thursday couched some of its rebuttal as a call for cooperation. ''We are willing to work together with the U.S. on strengthening dialogue and cooperation, appropriately dealing with divergences and sensitive issues and helping the relations to develop constructively and stably,'' it said. ''As for the divergence on human rights and religions, we always advocate that both sides talk from a basis of mutual respect and equality, to enhance understanding and diminish divergence, and enlarge mutual consensus.''
 Sophie Richardson, Asia advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, who is closely monitoring China's handling of the Games, said that the president's speech underscored ''this administration's peculiar combination of cowardice and ineptitude in raising these issues directly and effectively with the Chinese leadership.''
 She noted that Mr. Bush opted to criticize China while in Thailand, not in China, and that while he met five well-known Chinese dissidents in exile at the White House, he had not publicly spoken out about current political prisoners.
 ''His administration will receive myriad suggestions about how to improve rights in China but not act on any of them,'' she said in an e-mail message. ''They will, on the rare occasions they feel compelled to, offer some predictable platitudes about religious freedom being good for China, and they will turn around within a day and subordinate those interests to trade or security imperatives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and his father attended the dedication of the new American Embassy in Beijing on Friday. The embassy building, however, remains unfinished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); RELIGION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICHARD NIXON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008



199 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Giants to Buy Fewer Risky Home Loans

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
Gaping losses at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are causing the two mortgage giants to slow their purchases of home loans at a time when the government is counting on them to help prop up the housing market.
 The reductions and associated measures that the companies are taking are likely to drive up home mortgage rates, which are near their highest levels in a year.
 Concern over the companies' financial health was heightened on Friday when Fannie Mae reported a second-quarter loss of $2.3 billion. The deficit was three times what analysts had forecast and was the company's fourth consecutive quarter in the red. 
 This week, Freddie Mac reported a $821 million loss for the quarter. Although Fannie Mae's revenue was up slightly -- to $4 billion, an increase of $200 million from the previous quarter -- its expenses related to foreclosures and other credit losses soared to $5.3 billion, up from $3.2 billion in the previous three months.
 In light of their losses, both companies have indicated they will slow the number and types of loans they are purchasing. Fannie Mae executives, in a conference call with analysts on Friday, said they intended to reduce the growth of the company's loan portfolio and stop buying riskier so-called Alt-A mortgages by the end of the year. Fannie Mae will also begin charging more to guarantee loan repayments, a step that is likely to push mortgage rate higher.
 ''Fannie and Freddie's decision to curtail support of the mortgage market is going to make mortgages more expensive for potential home buyers, which is going to hurt the overall economy,'' said Howard Shapiro, an analyst at Fox-Pitt, Kelton. ''They're the only real buyers in this market, and they're going to buy less. That's really bad news.''
 Fannie Mae also announced measures intended to conserve capital, including cutting its dividend to 5 cents a share from 35 cents and reducing the company's operating costs 10 percent by 2009. The company's stock price closed on Friday at $9.05, down 9 percent.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages from banks and other lenders, providing those financial institutions with capital to make new loans. The companies own or guarantee more than $5 trillion in mortgages, or nearly half of all home loans in the United States .
 Fannie Mae's poor results on Friday, in many ways, are a reflection of a declining housing market. Executives said home prices in some states -- like California and Nevada -- had declined by more than 25 percent in the last two years and would continue to fall.
 ''The housing market has returned to earth fast and hard,'' said Fannie Mae's chief executive, Daniel H. Mudd, in the call with analysts. ''The crisis that we all observe as we drive home everyday continues to strain our results and capital, and we're still in that dark tunnel.''
 But the poor results are also an indication of how much more limited the companies' options have become. As an extension, the government's leverage over the housing market has also waned, since lawmakers have long relied on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''The government has done a lot to help these companies, but mortgage rates are continuing to rise and the housing market is continuing to decline,'' said Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse. ''They've already become part of the problem because the government has to worry about them instead of relying on them to save everyone.''
 Of particular concern, said Mr. Orenbuch and others, are persistent rumors that one or both companies will require a bailout. 
 After the companies' stock prices each declined by more than 80 percent this year, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. proposed an emergency plan last month that would give the federal government power to inject billions of taxpayer dollars into the companies if either were likely to fail. Mr. Paulson has repeatedly said he hopes never to activate the plan.
 ''The government wanted its bailout plan to be strong enough to calm the markets, but not so strong that they're forced to use it,'' Mr. Orenbuch said. ''But so far, it's only been partially effective. It's stabilized the companies, but hasn't done anything to help the costs of new mortgages go down.''
 And as the companies continue revealing losses, some observers are beginning to speculate which one is at greater risk.
 Much of the concern focuses on Freddie Mac, which has posted smaller losses than Fannie Mae, but which might be more exposed to risks of becoming undercapitalized.
 By law, regulators are compelled to consider taking over either company if it falls below minimum capital requirements. Some analysts say that the types of loans Freddie Mac has bought, and the smaller amount of capital the company has on hand, puts it at greater risk.
 ''Freddie is at much greater risk than Fannie,'' said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting company.
 Freddie Mac maintains that it is adequately capitalized. But Ms. Petrou said her analysis indicated that some loans owned by Freddie Mac put the company at risk of needing to raise significant amounts of capital very quickly if those mortgages were downgraded by rating agencies. However, it is unclear whether investors are eager to hand the company more money.
 Moreover, said Ms. Petrou, that eagerness is unlikely to grow as conditions continue declining.
 ''As long as people are having conversations that focus on who is in worse shape, rather than talking about how healthy everyone is, it's going to be hard for these companies to do much that really improves the housing marketplace,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel H. Mudd, Fannie Mae's chief, sees a ''dark tunnel.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); DIVIDENDS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



200 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Stupid Budget Tricks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GRANOF. 
Michael Granof is a professor of accounting at the schools of business and public affairs at the University of Texas at Austin.

DATELINE: Austin, Tex. 

 BODY:
 STATE governments across the country are reeling from the effects of the current economic downturn. New York, facing a $26.2 billion deficit over the next three years, is particularly hard hit. Like most other states, it is looking to balance its budget mainly by cutting spending.
 But if history is a guide, governors and legislators across the country will seek to avoid the difficult choices that are required. Instead, they will likely pass the costs of the services that we enjoy today on to our children and grandchildren, through creatively deceptive budgeting. 
 This is a time-honored practice. In 1991, the State of New York sold Attica prison to none other than itself. The buyer was a state agency that financed the $200 million purchase price by issuing bonds. The agency then leased the prison back to the state, with the lease payments being equal to the debt service on the bonds. 
 In substance, of course, the transaction was nothing more than a borrowing arrangement -- the equivalent of borrowing $200 million from the buyers of the bonds. Nevertheless, the state booked the entire sale price as revenue for the year. The previous year, the state sold the Cross Westchester Expressway to the New York Thruway Authority -- in other words, to itself. 
 New York is not the only state fond of this sort of budgetary dissembling. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California wants to reduce his state's deficit by borrowing money from the future. His plan is to issue $15 billion in bonds that are backed by future lottery revenues. More than a third of that money would be used to ease California's current-year deficit.
 Borrowing from the future to pay for the present is, unfortunately, becoming routine. In 2006, Indiana leased a toll road to a foreign consortium from Australia and Spain. The state received $3.8 billion upfront by surrendering the next 75 years of toll revenues. Other states have sold tobacco bonds that provide one-time infusions of cash -- in return for forgoing 25 years of payments from cigarette companies that were supposed to pay for health care related to tobacco-caused illnesses. 
 Another trick is to move up the due dates on merchant-collected sales taxesfrom early next year to late in the current year. These taxes then are counted as revenues for the current year. 
 Other states have moved employee paydays from the last day of the month to the first day of the next month. This enables them to eliminate an entire month of employee pay from the year's budget, because for one year there are only 11 paydays instead of 12. In subsequent years, the budget includes 11 paydays from salaries earned in the current year and one payday for money earned the previous year. 
 States also transfer money from a ''rainy day'' reserve account to the general fund and then count the amount transferred as revenue. This is the equivalent of solving personal fiscal problems by moving money from a savings account to a checking account and calling it ''income.''
 Pensions are the ideal budget item for imaginative accounting. When pension expenditures are decreased, the consequences of the cuts may not show up for decades. States can simply fail to pay the amount that is actuarially sound into pension funds. The retirement checks that state employees eventually receive under a defined-benefit plan are determined by the promises incorporated into the plan, not by the timing of a state's contributions. In effect, the state pays now or it pays later. And by paying later, the eventual cost to the state will be significantly increased, because no investment income will be earned on the funds that should have been contributed now. 
 In the most advanced form of pension-budget fakery, states can adopt faith-based pension schemes. They borrow money by issuing bonds to make both the current payments owed to their pensions and to compensate for any previous shortfalls. Then they just pray that the returns on the investments that will be purchased by the pension fund will exceed the interest to be paid on the bonds.
 It is easy to understand why public officials are tempted by these strategies. Ask citizens whether they would prefer that their state's budget be balanced with ''accounting adjustments'' as opposed to a combination of tax increases and service cuts, and they might well opt for the budget tricks. 
 But put the question differently and ask voters about the morality of passing along our bills to future generations, and the answer would surely be quite different. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); LOTTERIES (69%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (66%); TOBACCO MFG (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

 
