

401 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Migrant Money Flow: A $300 Billion Current

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
THE money flows in dribs and drabs, crossing borders $200 or $300 at a time. It buys cornmeal and rice and plaid private school skirts and keeps the landlord at bay. Globally, the tally is huge: migrants from poor countries send home about $300 billion a year. That is more than three times the global total in foreign aid, making ''remittances'' the main source of outside money flowing to the developing world.
 Surveys show that 80 percent of the money or more is immediately spent, on food, clothing, housing, education or the occasional beer party or television set. Still, there are tens of billions available for savings or investment, in places where capital is scarce. While remittances have been shown to reduce household poverty, policymakers are looking to increase the effect on economic growth. 
 Some migrants, for instance, send home money to savings accounts at small bank-like microfinance institutions, which use the resulting capital pool to lend to local entrepreneurs.
 People who track remittances have been starved for basic data. It is difficult to say exactly how much money is flowing and even harder to say where to, exactly. Sums large and small travel informally, through the mail or in the care of friends. The World Bank, the main tally keeper (in the form of a careful economist named Dilip Ratha), only counts transfers recorded by central banks. Last year's sum came to $208 billion. Bank officials estimate that the global total is about 50 percent higher -- $300 billion or more.
 Last month, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, an arm of the United Nations, and the Inter-American Development Bank released a set of numbers culled from additional sources, including private survey data and records of money-transfer companies. (The research was led by Manuel Orozco of the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington research group.) 
 The new study's estimate of the global total, $301 billion, is about the same as the World Bank's. But when it comes to specific countries, the two organizations vary widely.
 The World Bank, capturing central bank data, said southern African countries received about $1.4 billion in 2006. The new study said $4.5 billion. The World Bank puts Brazil's intake at $3.5 billion; the new study reports $7.4 billion. Depending which numbers you use, Russia received either $3.3 billion (old) or $13.8 billion (new). The World Bank data has been published annually, while the new study, part of a larger project, has not been widely reviewed. 
 By any accounting, the amounts involved are big and flow worldwide: migration truly is global. The new study found that 60 countries received $1 billion a year or more last year. In 38 countries, remittances accounted for more than 10 percent of the gross domestic product. Mr. Orozco estimates that only about a third of the money, $96 billion, comes from the United States, with large sums also originating in Europe and the Middle East.
 Donald F. Terry, an official at the Inter American Development Bank, which helped sponsor the study, has campaigned for years to publicize the importance of remittances. His policy agenda includes reducing the costs of sending money and helping migrants open bank accounts, especially back home, so they can gain access to mortgages and business loans. 
 ''Putting it out there this way increases the level of policy interest,'' Mr. Terry said. ''What's stunning is how critical remittances are in almost every developing country in the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOMELAND SECURITY: Many women in Mexico, like Estela Palacio Calzada, with her granddaughter, rely on money sent back from the U.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Migrant Money Flow: A $300 Billion Current 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); AGRICULTURE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); WIRE TRANSFERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MICROFINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



402 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: A Loud Legal Voice on Warming

 BODY:
While Washington's politicians dither, the federal courts have become increasingly active in the debate over global warming, aggressively pushing the White House and Congress to regulate greenhouse gases or explain why they cannot. These rulings add the force of law to the demands for action from scientists, a growing number of business leaders, and many state governors. 
 On Thursday, a federal appeals court in California invalidated the Bush administration's year-old fuel-economy standards for light trucks and sport utility vehicles because they failed to take into account the economic risks of climate change. This is the third federal court decision in seven months asking regulators to consider climate change when they set standards for industries that emit pollutants contributing to global warming. 
 In April, the Supreme Court rejected the Bush administration's argument that it had no authority to regulate carbon dioxide from motor vehicles and, in effect, ordered the Enviromental Protection Agency to come up with a plan for doing so. In September, a federal judge in Vermont delivered another rebuff to the administration when he ruled that states had the authority to restrict carbon dioxide emissions from cars and trucks, meanwhile demolishing every argument advanced by industry as to why it could not cost-effectively improve automobile efficiency.
 Now comes the California decision, with the added imperative that the Transportation Department, which sets mileage standards, must now assess the economic impact of tailpipe emissions on climate change when calculating the costs and benefits of any new rules. The court said the department had violated federal law by assigning a zero benefit to reducing emissions even though many studies have said that the costs of unchecked global warming could be very high.
 The court further ruled that the department had failed to supply a plausible explanation for treating light trucks and S.U.V.'s more leniently than ordinary cars.
 The ruling comes at an important moment. Congress is beginning to consider global warming legislation, the E.P.A. is fashioning a response to the Supreme Court, the State Department is preparing for a new round of global climate talks in Bali, and everyone is worried about the cost of oil. The California decision should help persuade all these players that the time for delay and denial is long past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); GOVERNORS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



403 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Hockey Rivalries Take to the Rails

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Newark 

 BODY:
 The woman was in the heartland of the opponent, wearing a fancy orange and blue jacket commemorating the four Stanley Cups won by the Islanders, albeit a quarter of a century ago.
 ''New York?'' she shouted. ''Is this the train to New York?''
 It was, indeed. Parallel steel rails now connect the three hockey franchises in the area. The tripartite rivalry can never match the days when the Brooklyn Dodgers, the Manhattan Giants and the Bronx Yankees were all connected by subway lines -- ask your grandfather -- but it gets people out of the swamps, and that is something. 
 The move to civilization has been accomplished by the handsome new arena, the Prudential Center, in downtown Newark, two blocks from the train station, which allows Devils fans to mingle with interloping Rangers fans and Islanders fans in the streets but also in the spacious corridors and food courts of the arena.
 Rivalries are good. We are reminded of this on a weekend when Harvard was meeting Yale, and Michigan was meeting Ohio State in college football. They are good as long as they stay peaceful, unlike Italian soccer, in which roving bands of armed ''ultras'' prey on fans at stadiums and even rest stops on the auto route, which resulted in the shooting of a Lazio fan by a police officer last Sunday morning, touching off riots at stadiums around Italy. 
 That kind of ancillary warfare is not liable to happen in North America. A few Rangers fans and Devils fans became rambunctious with each other last Wednesday night, when hundreds of blue-shirted Rangers fans made their first foray to the new arena, but Islanders fans came in peace Friday night for the Islanders' 1-0 victory over the slumping Devils.
 ''We can coexist in the same arena,'' said John Condon, from Long Island's New Hyde Park, who was there with his son, John, and three other Islanders fans, all wearing orange-and-blue gear. 
 ''This isn't like the Islanders-Rangers,'' Condon added, referring to the obscene chants that fill Madison Square Garden and Nassau Coliseum when those teams meet. (The Islanders' arena is not within walking distance of a train, alas.) 
 Even though the Devils won the Stanley Cup in 1995, 2000 and 2003, when they were playing in the Meadowlands, the fans were never known for filling the joint with bodies or noise. On Friday night, many visitors seemed preoccupied with the amenities of the airy new arena built by the city of Newark ($210 million) and the Devils' owner, Jeff Vanderbeek ($165 million). Friday's attendance was only 15,076, below the capacity of 17,625. 
 People were exploring the handsome bars (with counters of actual ice, to keep drinks cold) and the concession stands (bolos de bacalhau, codfish cakes, at the Portuguese stand of El Pastor restaurant.) 
 What could be more New Jersey than the restaurant's wine collection, which includes a 2005 Barolo Chianti Classico from the Bracco vineyards -- owned by none other than Lorraine Bracco, the shrink with the great legs on ''The Sopranos''?
 The decor of the arena is positively New Jersey, including murals that depict hockey players riding PATH trains. The homage to the state was ordered by Vanderbeek, a Jersey boy and former Lehman Brothers executive. 
 Not to wax too green about it, but Vanderbeek said metro teams had to tone down their dependence on the automobile.
 ''Eisenhower built the roads in the '50s,'' he said, referring to America's Interstate System, ''but now it's only getting worse,'' meaning traffic and gasoline prices. He added, ''Politicians know it, and are doing something about it.''
 Newark cannot casually afford this kind of investment, but Mayor Cory Booker has backed up the arena with officers, cars, bright lights and barricades to allow fans to stream back to upgraded Penn Station, where trains whisk people back to the suburbs or into Manhattan. 
 The surging crowd contradicted the recent prediction of apocalypse from Barry Melrose, a former coach now doing commentary for ESPN: ''It looks great on the inside but don't go outside, especially if you got a wallet or anything else because the area around the building is awful,'' Melrose said, before he was swatted down and made to apologize. 
 Although many of the part-time jobs have been filled by eager Newark residents, there are surveys that suggest arenas and stadiums do not contribute much to the economy. Yet the Yankees and Mets are building new ballparks (with fewer seats; go figure), while the Jets and Giants will share a new stadium in the Meadowlands, and the Nets are still planning an arena in Brooklyn. Can the region support all these palaces?
 At least Newark got here first. I have to admit, as a lifelong New Yorker, I had never set foot in downtown Newark until Friday. Now I look forward to getting back for a Seton Hall game or taking the light-rail line to the Newark Museum. This city is more inviting this fall -- for people wearing Islanders gear or even Rangers gear.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chloe and Bill Glass joined other fans walking to the Devils' new arena Wednesday in Newark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TRAINS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS FANS (76%); ICE HOCKEY (76%); RIOTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); SPORTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); SOCCER (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



404 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; THE TALK; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 2225 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Buckhead

BYLINE: By RON STODGHILL

 BODY:
Standing in the August heat amid cranes and bulldozers in Atlanta's affluent Buckhead district, the city's mayor, Shirley Franklin, rallied a late-morning crowd by proclaiming a renaissance -- ''a resurgence of Atlanta'' is how she put it -- in this Southern metropolis. The occasion was the announcement of a $1.2 billion mega-development called the Streets of Buckhead. Scheduled to open in the fall of 2009, it will be a mini-town of fashionable hotels, boutiques, restaurants and condos. And along with it, public roads will be expanded into wide boulevards with tree-lined sidewalks. Since Atlanta's boosters have always loved slogans (''The City Too Busy to Hate''; ''Atlanta: People Seem to Like It Here''; ''Every Day Is an Opening Day''), it's likely that Franklin's prophesy will soon be fashioned into a catchy new mantra. 
 Atlanta (weren't they also calling it Hotlanta at one point?) has been playing second-string to the world's great cities for years now. But as it undergoes a remarkable growth spurt -- this one led by a cadre of local business leaders and politicians intent on reshaping Buckhead into a high-end mecca -- Atlanta is all too eager to swap its dowdy ''crown jewel of the South'' moniker for something a bit more urbane. ''We are excited to bring Milan and New York right here to Buckhead,'' gushed the mayor, flanked by the city's most powerful commercial developers at the groundbreaking. This coming together of the city's old-guard business leaders and Atlanta's black political machine signals not only a thawing of a usually chilly relationship but also a herculean effort to catapult Buckhead and all of Atlanta above the realm of meat-and-potatoes provincialism. The area, they realize, is critical to the city's economic future and to its cachet in competing for tourists against larger cities in the United States and overseas.
 As one of the nation's wealthiest communities, Buckhead has always been in a class of its own, with its own sobriquet: the Beverly Hills of the South. Crowning the northern edge of Atlanta, it is a city within a city, with a population of roughly 100,000 and its own glimmering skyline that blends gracefully into an expanse of rolling, tree-canopied streets. Buckhead is also the breadwinner of Atlanta, its 1,400 retail stores luring shoppers from throughout the Southeast and its high-end restaurants and luxury hotels attracting legions of business travelers. Some of Atlanta's highest-profile visitors and residents live, work and play in Buckhead, regularly dropping into hangouts like the Buckhead Diner and Cafe Dupri, owned by the Atlanta-based music producer Jermaine Dupri. Elton John has a house here, Sean Combs owns a restaurant, and Janet Jackson, Dupri's girlfriend, stops for breakfast at Goldberg's, a neighborhood deli.
 A few years ago, I began visiting Atlanta regularly while researching a book about the death of Lance Herndon, a wealthy socialite and entrepreneur whose murder had captivated locals in the waning days of the 1996 Olympic Games. 
 A native New Yorker, my subject had remade himself into a Gatsby-like figure in the city and ran with a crowd of fashionable strivers who frequented the High Museum of Art, patronized the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and hung out in the trendy restaurants and nightclubs. While I was tracing the arc of my subject's business and social connections, his friends and associates invariably steered me -- often apologetically -- away from such notable areas as downtown Atlanta, Little Five Points, Midtown and Virginia-Highland and directly to Buckhead. And so I browsed the tony boutiques of Phipps Plaza, ate at upscale restaurants like Aria and Ciao Bella, browsed through galleries such as Trinity and Fay Gold, and smoked cigars at Dantanna's. The lobby of the Ritz-Carlton, where the city's power brokers congregate for meals and after-work cocktails, became my de facto office.
 But during that time, Buckhead was suffering an identity crisis. Some major fumbling by city planners, intending to bolster commerce in the neighborhood, had turned its night-life district, Buckhead Village, into something resembling a ''Girls Gone Wild'' video. And the area got caught in the crossfire of Atlanta's particular brand of politics, notoriously polarized along racial lines. 
 Since 1973, when Maynard Jackson was elected the first in a succession of black mayors, each of them had been criticized for, among other things, currying favor with the city's black voters at the expense of more affluent white ones in areas such as Buckhead. To her credit, Franklin, elected in 2001, has managed to bring both sides together. While maintaining her ties with black voters, she's earned praise from Atlanta's white establishment for leveraging her clout -- and the city's resources -- to restore some of the luster Buckhead has lost in recent years. 
 What unified constituents were the problems in Buckhead Village, a seven- block night-life district. By some accounts, this relatively small pocket of Buckhead began to unravel about 20 years ago, when, in an effort to liven up this sleepy corridor and account for the area's dearth of parking garages, the Atlanta city council eliminated parking restrictions on residential streets. The plan worked too well. Buckhead Village morphed into Atlanta's version of the French Quarter, as dozens of bars and nightclubs opened and the district became a magnet for hard-partying college kids whose boisterous and often lewd activities spilled into the neighborhood's otherwise quiet streets. Homeowners complained loudly. ''It was like having Bourbon Street at the entrance of Bel-Air,'' says Ben Carter, a Buckhead resident and commercial real estate developer. 
 The area hit bottom in 2000 when two local men were knifed to death during a fight after Super Bowl Sunday, a melee that included Ray Lewis, the Baltimore Ravens linebacker, and his friends. The incident, which occurred near Alan Avery's Trinity Gallery, among the oldest in the city, made national news. ''My sign was on CNN every night,'' Avery laments. As Scotty Greene, the executive director of the Buckhead Community Improvement District, put it, ''With high-profile shootings, and then all the petty crimes, things were just out of control.''
 By the time I began my book research in 2001, I had been warned about problems in Buckhead Village. Crime was still on the rise. On weekend nights, the sense of anarchy was palpable: many of the area's main arteries were clogged with traffic as rap music thundered from cars and mobs of youngsters -- many of them under drinking age -- crowded the entrances of nightclubs and bars. ''Bill Campbell didn't give us the time of day,'' says the longtime Buckhead resident and former Atlanta mayor Sam Massell, referring to the mayor from 1994 to 2002. ''And Maynard Jackson, well, we didn't get much help from him either. I once suggested to him that the city build a precinct here and he said, 'Why don't y'all pay for it yourselves.' '' 
 Since then, Buckhead's leaders have been on a crusade to reclaim the area. Among the catalysts is Carter, who has built mall projects throughout Georgia. To make space for his Streets of Buckhead project, Carter has spent around $200 million over the past two years buying virtually all the commercial property in Buckhead Village and shutting down the bars and nightclubs. In several other Atlanta neighborhoods, substantial change has not come without a fight. Residents of gentrifying communities such as Kirkwood and the Old Fourth Ward, the historically black enclave where Martin Luther King Jr. was born, have protested being priced-out of the neighborhood by more affluent whites. 
 The transformation of Buckhead, strictly a commercial venture, has proved to be less contentious.
 In the months to come, as tractors crawl along the streets and work crews turn a large patch of Buckhead Village into something of a ghost town, it is tempting to avoid the area all together. But as I discovered on my most recent visit, that would be a mistake. The neighborhood's magic has never been its night life, at least not for anyone older than 25. The lure for me has always been late afternoon cruises along East Paces Ferry Road to the elegant heart of Buckhead, where looming oak trees shade quiet streets lined with stately Georgian, Tudor, Italianate and Greek Revival mansions. Along with the homes of Atlanta's most powerful families sits the Governor's Mansion, a 30-room house on 18 acres. One of the only grand houses that isn't a private residence, it's open to visitors.
 At the eastern end of Buckhead's blue-blood residential area, surrounded by historic houses and gardens, is the Atlanta History Center, which has one of the largest collections of Civil War artifacts in the country. Although I'm no Civil War buff, I always make a point of dropping by the museum for its trove of juicy Atlanta nostalgia. I discovered, for instance, an enlightening book entitled ''Explosion at Orly: The Disaster That Transformed Atlanta,'' a detailed account of how a Boeing 707 carrying 106 of Atlanta's wealthiest citizens, ''the backbone of Atlanta's cultural society, the city's leading patrons of the arts,'' crashed in 1962 upon takeoff at Orly Airport in Paris during a museum tour of Europe. This little-discussed tragedy helped me understand, at least partly, one of the reasons behind the city's staggered cultural momentum.
 Southerners tend to cherish their mealtimes, and Buckhead's food scene has graduated in recent years from high-priced steakhouses such as Morton's and the Palm to an eclectic variety of intimate and innovative restaurants. Posh, in the converted Colonial house once occupied by the much-loved Seeger's, serves modern American fare like foie gras with pea puree and walnut oil and has a talented mixologist, Andy Minchow, who experiments gamely with his cocktails by adding raspberry, grapefruit, mint and basil.
 As much as I like Buckhead now, I can't help but be enthusiastic about what's to come. Carter's vision for the area is a kind of improved version of Rodeo Drive or Madison Avenue. 
 The arrival of luxury is well underway: Hermes, Etro, Bottega Veneta, Loro Piana, the New York restaurants Bottega del Vino and La Goulue, and a ''green'' hotel from Starwood Capital have already signed leases in Buckhead Village. 
 St. Regis and Rosewood are also planning to open hotels in the neighborhood. But what's most significant about the revival is the addition of edestrian-friendly avenues with flowers, trees and benches, along with an outdoor gallery whose keystone work is a sculpture by Frank Stella. It's a triumph of new urbanism over the cookie-cutter sprawl Atlantans and visitors like me have long abhorred. ''That's what a great city is,'' Carter says. ''You don't have to get in your car. You can walk.''
 The denizens of old Buckhead are ecstatic about it all. ''Atlanta is undergoing a cultural explosion, and I've waited it out,'' says Alan Avery, of Trinity Gallery. ''For a while, we were nouveau riche, but now we're getting the old money again.'' 
 VISITOR INFORMATION
 Hotels: In addition to the Starwood Capital and St. Regis properties opening in Buckhead in the next two years, Rosewood's Mansion on Peachtree will make its debut in 2008 (www.rosewoodhotels.com). In the meantime, Buckhead's best option is still the power center Ritz-Carlton (404-237-2700; www.ritzcarlton.com; doubles from $219). Worthy contenders include the Grand Hyatt (404-237-1234; www.hyatt.com; doubles from $279) and the JW Marriott (404-262-3344; www.marriott.com; doubles from $199).
 Restaurants and Bars: Beluga Martini Bar A live-music spot hosting popular regional and national acts. 3115 Piedmont Road; (404) 869-1090. Buckhead Diner Neon-lit standby that attracts local power brokers and entertainers. 3073 Piedmont Road; (404) 262-3336; entrees $10 to $27. Cafe Dupri The hip-hop producer Jermaine Dupri's jumping late-night magnet for entertainers and their entourages. 3135 Piedmont Road; (404) 846-2773. Goldberg's Bagel Company and Deli Beloved and scene-y breakfast spot. 4383 Roswell Road; (404) 256-3751; entrees $8 to $18. Posh Modern American cuisine in a colonial house. 111 West Paces Ferry Road; (404) 869-0777; entrees $20 to $35. Soleil Bistro Hip and popular French-Mediterranean dining room with a superb wine list. 3081 Maple Drive; (404) 467-1790; entrees $13 to $26. 
 Galleries and Museums: Atlanta History Center Fascinating collections, including one of the world's largest groupings of Civil War memorabilia. 130 West Paces Ferry Road; (404) 814-4000; www.atlantahistorycenter.com. Fay Gold Gallery Established dealer showing the work of top photographers from around the country. 764 Miami Circle; (404) 233-3853. Trinity Gallery Among the oldest galleries in Buckhead, showing paintings, sculpture and photography. 315 East Paces Ferry Road; (404) 237-0370.
 Sights and Activities: Chastain Park Amphitheater, between Buckhead and Sandy Springs, hosts bands and classical concerts for crowds of picnickers (www.classicchastain.com). Along West Paces Ferry Road is a lineup of stunning houses in Greek, Tudor and Italianate style. The Governor's Mansion, which is open to the public, is an excellent example (391 West Paces Ferry Road; 404-261-1776). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dixieland: Clockwise from far left: the Governor's Mansion, one of Buckhead's grand old houses
Alan Avery at his Trinity Gallery
the Buckhead Diner, a hangout for movers and shakers.
Food for thought: The staff at Posh, one of Buckhead's new breed of creative restaurants.
 Old guard: A mansion on West Paces Ferry Road, a Buckhead street lined with stately houses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IMKE LASS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); POLITICS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



405 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL3-20
 Worry Over Pakistani Arms
 The United States has spent almost $100 million in an effort to beef up Pakistan's nuclear security, officials say. But there is growing concern that Pakistan's reluctance to reveal details about its arsenal has undercut the effort. 1 
 The unlikely partnership between President Bush and Gen. Pervez Musharraf has been shaken by the general's recent seizing of emergency powers. 20
 General Musharraf refused to tell an American envoy when he would lift a two-week-old state of emergency, Pakistani and Western officials said. 14
 Iraq Credits Iran on Security
 The Iraqi government praised Iran for helping to halt Shiite attacks and contributing to the improved security situation in Iraq, according to the government's spokesman. 20 
 Stark Report on Climate
 Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, left, describing climate change as ''the defining challenge of our age,'' released the final report of a United Nations panel and called on the United States and China to play ''a more constructive role.'' 3 
 Japan's Immigration Rules
 Japan is set to impose strict new immigration controls and a system for monitoring foreign visitors modeled on an American program. Many fear it could deter investors and tourists. 4 
 Cyclone Toll Exceeds 1,700
 The death toll from a cyclone that devastated southwest Bangladesh has exceeded 1,700. Military helicopters and ships joined rescue and relief operations and aid workers on the ground struggled to reach victims. 13 
 NATIONAL23-36
 Death Penalty Questions
 The question of whether the death penalty deters murders has captured the attention of scholars in law and economics, setting off an intense new debate about one of the central justifications for capital punishment. According to roughly a dozen recent studies, executions save lives. For each inmate put to death, the studies say, 3 to 18 murders are prevented. Critics disagree. 1 
 Foreclosures and Renters
 In the foreclosure crisis of 2007, thousands of American families are losing their homes without ever missing a payment. They are renters in houses whose owners default on their mortgages -- a large but unnoticed class of casualties. Many renters are blindsided by the news and say they never even knew their buildings were heading for foreclosure. 1 
 Rights for Human Eggs
 A proposed amendment to the Colorado Constitution that would give legal rights to fertilized human eggs may be headed for the ballot next year, raising the prospect of a heated local debate over abortion at the same time that Democrats will be gathering in Denver for their national convention. 23 
 Michigan Immigration Bills
 Democratic Michigan lawmakers unveiled a package of bills intended to crack down on employers, making it a felony to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant. Violation could mean fines of up to $250,000 and as much as five years in prison. 32 
 NEW YORK/REGION39-45
 Soldier Haunted by War
 Sgt. Brad Gaskins, a former quarterback at Orange High School in New Jersey, went AWOL from the Army for 14 months and sought help after a second tour of combat in Iraq left him plagued by memories of death and destruction. Though hospitalized for his psychiatric problems, he could be court-martialed.39

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); FORECLOSURE (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); MURDER (86%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CAPITAL CRIMES (69%); FELONIES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (50%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BAN KI-MOON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



406 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chief Seeks More Leadership on Climate Change

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL; Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: VALENCIA, Spain, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, describing climate change as ''the defining challenge of our age,'' released the final report of a United Nations panel on climate change here on Saturday and called on the United States and China to play ''a more constructive role.''
 His challenge to the world's two greatest greenhouse gas emitters came just two weeks before the world's energy ministers meet in Bali, Indonesia, to begin talks on creating a global climate treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. 
 The United States and China are signatories to Kyoto, but Washington has not ratified the treaty, and China, along with other developing countries, is not bound by its mandatory emissions caps. 
 ''Today the world's scientists have spoken, clearly and in one voice,'' Mr. Ban said of the report, the Synthesis Report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. ''In Bali, I expect the world's policymakers to do the same.''
 He added, ''The breakthrough needed in Bali is for a comprehensive climate change deal that all nations can embrace.''
 Although Mr. Ban has no power to enforce members of the United Nations to act, his statements on Saturday increased the pressure on the United States and China, participants here said.
 Members of the panel said their review of the data led them to conclude as a group and individually that reductions in greenhouse gases had to start immediately to avert a global climate disaster, which could leave island nations submerged and abandoned, reduce African crop yields by 50 percent, and cause a 5 percent decrease in global gross domestic product.
 The panel's fourth and final report summarized and integrated the most significant findings of three sections of a climate-science review that were released between January and April. Because the data had not previously been reviewed as a whole, scientists said the synthesized report was more explicit, creating new emphasis and alarm.
 The first section of the review had covered climate trends; the second, the world's ability to adapt to a warming planet; the third, strategies for reducing carbon emissions. With their mission concluded, the hundreds of IPCC scientists spoke more freely than they had previously.
 ''The sense of urgency when you put these pieces together is new and striking,'' said Martin Parry, a British climate expert who was co-chairman of the delegation that wrote the second report. ''I've come out of this process more pessimistic about the possibilities than I thought I would.''
 The panel, which was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last month, said the world would have to reverse the growth of greenhouse gas emissions by 2015 to prevent serious climate disruptions.
 ''If there's no action before 2012, that's too late,'' said Rajendra Pachauri, a scientist and economist who heads the IPCC. ''What we do in the next two to three years will determine our future. This is the defining moment.''
 He said that since the IPCC began its work five years ago, scientists had recorded ''much stronger trends in climate change,'' like a recent melting of Arctic ice that had not been predicted. ''That means you better start with intervention much earlier.''
 Saturday's synthesis report was reviewed and approved by delegates from 130 nations gathered here this week. But unlike the earlier reviews, in which governments had insisted on changes that diluted the reports' impact, this time scientists and environmental groups said there had been no major dilution of the data.
 For example, this report's summary was the first to acknowledge that the melting of the Greenland ice sheet from rising temperatures could result in a substantive sea-level rise over centuries rather than millennia.
 ''Many of my colleagues would consider that kind of melt a catastrophe'' so rapid that mankind would not be able to adapt, said Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton University who contributed to the IPCC.
 ''It's extremely clear and is very explicit that the cost of inaction will be huge compared to the cost of action,'' said Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of Columbia University's Earth Institute. ''We can't afford to wait for some perfect accord to replace Kyoto, for some grand agreement. We can't afford to spend years bickering about it. We need to start acting now.''
 He said that delegates in Bali should take action immediately where they agree, for example, on public financing for new technologies like capturing emissions of the main greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide, and pumping it underground. He said energy ministers should start a global fund to help poor countries avoid deforestation, which releases greenhouse gases and reduces the uptake of carbon dioxide through photosynthesis.
 United Nations officials pointed out that strong policies were needed, like increasing the energy efficiency of cars and setting up carbon markets, a system that essentially forces companies and countries to pay for the cost of the greenhouse gases they emit. 
 The European Union already has such a carbon trading system in place for many industries, and is fighting to bring airlines into the plan.
 ''Stabilization of emissions can be achieved by deployment of a portfolio of technologies that exist or are already under development,'' said Achim Steiner, head of the United Nations Environment Program. 
 But he noted that developed countries would have to help poorer ones adapt to climate shifts and adopt cleaner energy choices, which are often expensive. 
 Mr. Steiner emphasized that the report sent a message to individuals as well as world leaders: ''What we need is a new ethic in which every person changes lifestyle, attitude and behavior.'' 
 Meanwhile, the Bush administration's reaction to the report was muted. At a news conference Friday night after the report was approved, James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the president's Council on Environmental Quality, said President Bush had agreed with leaders of the other major industrialized nations that ''the issue warrants urgent action, and we need to bring forward in a more accelerated way the technologies that will make a lasting solution possible.''
 He declined to say how much warming the administration considered acceptable, saying, ''We don't have a view on that.'' 
 Mr. Connaughton acknowledged that the United States, like other nations, had tried to make some changes to the draft. Dr. Sharon L. Hays, the leader of the American delegation here, said the goal was not political but ''to make sure the final report matches the science.'' She noted that the United States had invested $12 billion in climate research since 2001.
 Stephanie Tunmore, a member of Greenpeace International who had observer status as the countries debated the text, questioned that explanation.
 She said, for example, that the United States had tried to remove a section of the report titled ''Reasons for Concern,'' which listed consequences of climate change that are either likely or possible. One was the melting of ice sheets, which the panel said could take place more rapidly than previously thought.
 The Americans argued that there was no reason to include the section, because all of it was contained somewhere in the previous IPCC technical documents, she said. But the section remained in the report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon described climate change as ''the defining challenge of our age.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FERNANDO BUSTAMENTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The panel's report is the first to acknowledge that the melting of the Greenland ice sheet, above, from higher temperatures could result in a big sea-level rise over centuries rather than millennia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MCCONNICO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREENLAND (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



407 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Outline Plans To Improve Environment

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
Three Democratic presidential hopefuls described their plans to combat global warming and promote energy independence at a forum here Saturday, with each emphasizing the need for government mandates to reduce greenhouse gases and voicing commitment to treaties on the environment. 
 The event, organized by environmental groups, brought together Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio. Each candidate took the stage at a different time, however, and there was little disagreement among them as they laid out their proposals to a friendly audience. 
 The candidates had previously released their proposals on global warming and energy, the focus of the forum. But the opportunity to reiterate them and take questions from a panel of experts in a state that is not holding an early primary highlighted the impact that environmental issues have taken in the campaign.
 After immigration, reducing oil dependence and global warming is the second most important issue among independent voters, said Daniel J. Weiss, the director of climate strategy for the Center for American Progress Action Fund, a cosponsor of the forum. Mr. Weiss cited a Democracy Corps poll released last month, which also found that among Democrats, it is the fourth most important issue.
 Mrs. Clinton's plan, released this month, includes raising fuel standards to 55 miles per gallon by 2030, creating five million jobs through renewable energy advancements and reducing carbon emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. 
 On Saturday she also called for reducing foreign oil imports by two-thirds by 2030. If she is elected, she said, she will create a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund by cutting tax benefits for oil companies, and will also create a national energy council and a new treaty to replace the one signed in Kyoto.
 ''We cannot afford to fiddle while the world warms,'' she said.
 Mrs. Clinton has called for a ''cap and trade'' auction system, in which businesses would buy allowances to pollute. 
 Mr. Edwards has also said greenhouse gas pollution needs to be capped starting in 2010 with a cap-and-auction system. But he said a difference between him and Mrs. Clinton was that he was opposed to building more nuclear power plants. 
 Mr. Edwards's plan includes placing a cap on emissions of greenhouse gases and reducing them by 20 percent by 2020 and at least 80 percent by 2050. He also wants to auction the right to emit any greenhouse gases after a short transition period. His plan also calls for a $13 billion a year New Energy Economy Fund, financed primarily through the sale of emission permits. 
 ''We can have a prosperous middle class while preserving our natural resources and the beauty of our planet,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''We can wean America off of foreign oil.''
 Mr. Kucinich said the United States must abolish nuclear weapons; that environmental principles need to be worked into trade agreements, and that he supports the United States rejoining the Kyoto Protocol, the international agreement that limits the emissions of greenhouse gases from most industrialized countries.
 Mrs. Clinton was briefly interrupted when a man in the audience stood up and shouted, asking her about her vote on Iraq before the war. 
 ''Were you invited to speak here this afternoon?'' Mrs. Clinton said. The man was removed by security.
 Gene Karpinski, president of the League of Conservation Voters, which helped organize the forum, said all of the Democratic and Republican candidates had been invited. The others either had scheduling conflicts or did not respond to the invitation, Mr. Karpinski said. The league is considering candidates questionnaires to decide whom to endorse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



408 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2189 words

HEADLINE: Dealers' Money Nudges Museums

BYLINE: By JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 TAKASHI MURAKAMI'S ''Oval Buddha,'' a shiny new 19-foot-tall platinum and aluminum sculpture that looms large over his current retrospective at the Museum of Contemporary Art here, was originally supposed to be sent from Japan by boat. But come August, after several years and millions of dollars in the making, the Buddha still needed some work. 
 So Mr. Murakami's gallery, Blum & Poe, came to the rescue. It chartered a plane from Japan Airlines to buy more time and carry the giant Buddha to California.
 That's not all Blum & Poe has done to help the museum. The gallery, which has exhibited Mr. Murakami's work in Los Angeles for about a decade, helped Paul Schimmel, the museum's chief curator, secure some loans from major collectors. It bought $50,000 worth of tickets for the opening-night gala, with proceeds benefiting the museum. 
 And, in a move that many in the field are questioning, the gallery kicked in what the dealer Tim Blum described as a ''six-figure'' contribution to finance the museum show itself. 
 ''It's a vote of confidence for MOCA, for Paul, for Takashi and for the whole project,'' Mr. Blum said. 
 Mr. Schimmel said that the sum, which he declined to specify, was matched by the Gagosian Gallery, which represents Mr. Murakami in New York, and Emmanuel Perrotin, which represents him in Paris. Mr. Schimmel thanks these ''three strong gallery partners'' in his Murakami catalog for ''lending significant administrative and financial support to the exhibition and to MOCA's extensive marketing campaign.''
 Yet for many in the art world such gifts raise an issue: Should nonprofit art museums accept money from commercial galleries with a clear financial stake in the artist's career, and in some cases in the artworks on display?
 More generally, can the willingness of galleries to pony up subtly influence what a museum sets out to exhibit?
 The Los Angeles show is not the only one raising these questions. Across from the museum the alternative arts center Redcat credits the New York gallery Deitch Projects as one of four sponsors of its graffiti-packed, street-smart installation by the San Francisco artist Barry McGee. The dealer Jeffrey Deitch and Redcat said the gallery contributed $15,000. And for the current Richard Prince retrospective at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, Larry Gagosian and Barbara Gladstone, Mr. Prince's Los Angeles and New York dealers, both wrote checks, the museum confirmed. Neither the dealers nor the museum disclosed the amounts.
 Galleries have periodically, if quietly, financed exhibitions before; Sperone Westwater, for example, pitched in with the 2005 Richard Tuttle exhibition at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. But it's hard to remember another season when so many dealers were writing checks to museums for solo shows devoted to their artists, and being credited publicly for it.
 Museum curators emphasize that this is not a case of dealers' insinuating themselves into a prestigious museum context. They say the museums approached the dealers, not the other way around.
 ''I don't want you to think the money comes rolling in because dealers are knocking on my door,'' said Mr. Schimmel of the Museum of Contemporary Art. ''I go to them and say we need their help to realize the exhibition. I even had the nerve to ask Marianne Boesky to help, and she no longer represents the artist.'' (Ms. Boesky gave an undisclosed amount for the show, as did several private collectors.)
 Lisa Dennison, who was the director of the Guggenheim when the Richard Prince show was being organized and now works at Sotheby's, said that declining corporate donations had prompted museums to be more resourceful in recent years. 
 ''They look to a variety of sources: corporations, individuals, galleries and auction houses,'' she said. ''They look to them all and leave no stone unturned.''
 But not everybody in the museum world is comfortable with the trend. Bruce Altshuler, director of the museum studies program at New York University, compared it to accepting money from a corporation to display its merchandise. 
 ''Gallery sponsorship like this raises the same kind of ethical conflict-of-interest questions as the Armani show,'' said Mr. Altshuler, citing a 2000 show at the Guggenheim on the fashion designer Giorgio Armani. (Participants in Guggenheim meetings said in 1999 that the show was organized after Armani pledged $15 million to the museum.) 
 ''There are two basic questions,'' Mr. Altshuler said. ''Was the decision to mount the exhibition made because of funding from someone with an economic interest in the show? And did that funding lead to the ceding of curatorial decision making or some influence on the choice of works in the exhibition?'' He added that even if a show's curator can confidently reply no to both questions, some damage might be done nonetheless. ''There might not be any actual impropriety, but the goal is to avoid even the appearance of it,'' he said.
 For that reason, Mr. Altshuler said, he found the Los Angeles museum's fund-raising from galleries more problematic than its controversial decision to play host to a Louis Vuitton boutique that sells Murakami-designed merchandise inside the exhibition space. ''I personally see no problem with the Louis Vuitton store,'' he said. ''That seems perfectly in the spirit of Murakami's work.''
 Several museum officials echoed Mr. Altshuler's concerns about cash contributions from galleries. ''It's a slightly alarming situation to see more and more galleries on museum credit lines,'' said Brett Littman, director of the Drawing Center in New York. ''I think we need a stronger separation of church and state.'' 
 ''At the end of the day galleries are about selling the work, not about stewardship,'' he said. ''Even if they do 'museum-quality' shows, their real job is to move that work as merchandise.'' 
 Mr. Littman added that he might consider asking a gallery to frame or ship an artwork for a Drawing Center show, but ''I wouldn't ask them to finance the exhibition directly.'' 
 Gary Garrels, chief curator at the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles, called gallery financing ''an act of last resort,'' adding that the Hammer had not accepted such contributions. ''You don't want to have even the appearance that the museum program is for sale to whoever can write the check,'' he said. ''That's the bottom line. The museum is supposedly trying to make decisions with some kind of objectivity. These are the goals or ideals, anyway.'' 
 But, Mr. Garrels quickly added, ideals are hardly a match for the reality of the frenzied art market today. ''The market seems like it's on the edge of taking over every corner of the art world,'' he said. ''This is just another example of it. That's what makes people very nervous. You feel like you're sliding down a very slippery slope.'' 
 Where to draw the line on gallery support varies widely from museum to museum. Those with contemporary art programs naturally consult galleries for research purposes, whether seeking access to their archives or client lists. When contacted for this article, many museums said they also accept nonmonetary, or in-kind, support, from the framing of artwork to the organizing of a reception. 
 Some institutions, like the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, said they regularly accept financial donations from galleries for the production of accompanying catalogs but would not permit galleries to ''directly underwrite exhibitions.'' (The Walker is one of the few museums with written guidelines on this issue.) 
 Officials at other institutions, like the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, said they consider catalogs intrinsic to an exhibition and thus have not accepted gallery funds for either -- at least as far as they can recall. 
 ''We've racked our brains and examined our records,'' said Harold Holzer, a spokesman for the Met. ''And there are no examples we can find where a gallery sponsored an exhibition.'' 
 (Some have pointed out that the Met does, however, accepting financing from fashion houses that are featured in exhibitions at its Costume Institute. And that ''Para,'' a publication accompanying its recent Neo Rauch show, was not prepared by the museum but by the artist's gallery, Eigen & Art.) 
 As for the Richard Tuttle show, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art's director of development, J. Mullineaux, described the decision to solicit money from Sperone Westwater as an exception resulting from cost overruns. ''I don't see it becoming standard practice in the future,'' he noted in an e-mail.
 The Association of American Museums and the Association of Art Museum Directors do not have specific guidelines about accepting gallery sponsorship. Rather, they have published general guidelines on corporate support, like a museum association statement issued in 2001 after controversy over shows like the Guggenheim's Armani.
 ''A museum's governing authority and staff must ensure that no individual or business benefits at the expense of the museum's mission, reputation, or the community it serves,'' one section says.
 The worst case, most interviewed agreed, would be for a museum to accept money from a gallery to stage a show of new or available work that the gallery could essentially sell straight off the museum walls. That does not appear to be the case with the Guggenheim's Richard Prince retrospective, whose single biggest source of works was the artist's own collection, followed closely by works in private hands. And only a handful of the 90-plus works in the Murakami exhibition are for sale, most prominently the ''Oval Buddha'' sculpture, offered by Blum & Poe. 
 As for the much smaller exhibition supported by Deitch Projects at Redcat, Mr. Deitch said that Mr. McGee is one of his least commercial artists and that he had not yet figured out which elements of the installation he might sell.
 Some museums will enter profit-sharing partnerships with dealers when commissioning a new work. (That was the kind of agreement that Mass MoCA in North Adams, Mass., was trying to negotiate with the New York dealer Michele Maccarone when its plans for a vast installation by Christoph Buchel fell apart.) 
 Redcat says that as a matter of policy it will not take a cut if Mr. Deitch sells any pieces from the McGee installation. Nor will the Los Angeles museum derive a profit from a future sale of Mr. Murakami's Buddha, Mr. Schimmel said. ''We have not been actively co-owning or participating in the fabrication of new pieces because of the financial relationships it creates,'' he said. He added that neither Blum & Poe, Gagosian nor Emmanuel Perrotin had exerted influence over the content of the Murakami show. 
 ''Never once did a gallery say, 'You should have this work of art in the show' or 'Take care of this collector,''' he said. At other museums, he added, ''I'll be curious if other curators can say that unequivocally.'' He approached the three galleries for support in February, after he had completed the Murakami checklist and floor plan, he added. 
 Jeremy Strick, the director of the Los Angeles museum, said that while he had accepted gallery financing for shows before, curatorial independence remained paramount. ''MOCA would never accept interference from anyone in development of its curatorial program,'' he said.
 Similarly, Eleanor Goldhar, a spokeswoman for the Guggenheim, said: ''We do not have a policy that precludes receiving support from any particular category of donors. However we do have a policy that our curatorial decisions will not be influenced by our sponsors.'' 
 Ms. Dennison said the Guggenheim solicited money for the Prince exhibition from the dealers last spring, over two years after deciding to organize the show. (The show's curator, Nancy Spector, declined to be interviewed about sponsorship, and the Guggenheim Foundation said that its director, Thomas Krens, was unavailable for comment.)
 Still, critics say that questions of perceived influence and apparent benefit persist, as does the issue of why museums as large as MOCA and the Guggenheim need to turn to galleries for money at all. 
 Mr. Deitch of Deitch Projects chalks it up partly to a crisis in arts philanthropy at a time when artists' productions are growing ever bigger. He said he receives weekly requests from nonprofit institutions of all sizes for support. ''My staff is astonished by how much comes in by mail, e-mail, phone,'' he said. 
 He agreed in June to support the Redcat show, which he sees as a way of helping his artist realize his vision, he said. ''I'm not doing this so that I can cash in on Barry McGee,'' he added. ''I'm doing this because if I don't, there is no show.''
 Ms. Gladstone, who helped finance the Richard Prince exhibition, touched on the same theme. ''I don't see any corporate support, or very little of the kind that, say, Philip Morris used to provide. And what happened to the National Endowment for the Arts, which used to do a lot of funding? 
 ''I think galleries are reluctantly stepping in to fill the gap.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, ''Oval Buddha'' and ''Super Nova,'' at the Takashi Murakami show at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. His dealers in New York, Los Angeles and Paris contributed money for the exhibition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOEL VASQUEZ/GETTY IMAGES)
 Richard Prince currently has a solo retrospective at the Guggenheim. His dealers provided financial support for the show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AR36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AIRLINES (70%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



409 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Two Sides of Mr. Sarkozy

 BODY:
The picture of a French president who jogs, vacations in New Hampshire and even seems comfortable around President Bush is so unusual that it has earned Nicolas Sarkozy the nickname of Sarko the American. That, along with France's toughened stand against Iran's nuclear appetites, won Mr. Sarkozy bipartisan applause in Washington this month. 
 It is certainly a relief to have a French leader who wants to improve relations with the United States. The two countries have plenty of common interests, including fighting terrorism, keeping Iran from developing nuclear weapons and nurturing democracy in Lebanon.
 Washington and Paris still differ on other issues, though more amicably. Mr. Sarkozy sees no military solution for Iraq, and he would like Washington to do a lot more to address the serious dangers of global warming.
 On both, Mr. Sarkozy clearly has the better arguments. When it comes to trade and the future of the European Union, he just as clearly does not. 
 Last week, days after his return from Washington, Mr. Sarkozy addressed the European Union Parliament, where he offered a worryingly old-style French program for building protectionist walls around an economically and demographically exclusive Europe. His approach would discriminate against foreign companies and third world farmers. And, as he has previously made clear, he will do all he can to keep Turkey out of the European Union. If Mr. Sarkozy's ideas prevail -- a realistic possibility -- they would inflict long-term damage on France and Europe.
 Many Europeans, like many Americans, feel threatened by globalization. But the challenge cannot be met with Mr. Sarkozy's misconceived ideas, including designating threatened European companies as nationally backed contenders, and giving them special legal and economic privileges. That approach will see sheltered European firms fall even further behind newer and more efficient competitors from India, China and elsewhere. 
 The costly European system of agricultural subsidies that Mr. Sarkozy favors rewards France's shrinking pool of farmers, at the expense of other French and European taxpayers, while punishing third world economies and adding to the streams of desperate illegal immigrants that so alarm Mr. Sarkozy and other European conservatives. On Turkey, Europe can encourage the development of a democratic and prosperous Muslim partner and neighbor -- or force a spurned Turkey to look for other friends like Iran, Russia or China. 
 It would be nice to welcome a new French-American alliance. But first, Mr. Sarkozy will have to resolve the conflict between his enlightened trans-Atlantic overtures and his narrow protectionist vision for Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); AGRICULTURE (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); CONSERVATISM (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



410 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Oceanic World Orders

BYLINE: By JOHANN HARI. 
Johann Hari, a columnist for The Independent of London, was recently named national newspaper journalist of the year by Amnesty International.

 BODY:
GOD AND GOLD 
 Britain, America, and the Making of the Modern World.
 By Walter Russell Mead. 
 449 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.95.
 It is impossible to imagine George W. Bush eating cucumber sandwiches on an English lawn while discussing the latest cricket scores. Yet this president, the one with the fewest English airs, has nonetheless inspired rampant Anglophilia among some foreign policy experts. With his unashamedly ''civilizing'' mission in the Middle East, and his deployment of gunboats as a tool of diplomacy, Bush has sent intellectuals dashing back to the British Empire for parallels and predecessors. 
 Walter Russell Mead, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the latest to trace the connecting fibers between George III and George W. He argues in ''God and Gold'' that America -- a country founded in a rebellion against the British Empire -- has, in fact, become its logical successor. He believes every age needs a ''liberal empire'' to control the world's seas and make free trade possible. This was discovered by the United Provinces of the Netherlands four centuries ago, then by the United Kingdom -- and now by the United States. Indeed, ''the last 400 years of world history can be summed up in 10 letters. ... The story of world power goes U.P. to U.K. to U.S.'' 
 Each of these ''liberal'' maritime empires defeated towering, glowering rivals. From the Spanish Armada to Soviet tanks, they prevailed for one reason: they adhered to an unwritten code that the author wryly terms ''the Protocols of the Elders of Greenwich.'' These are simple. Build an open society at home. Channel its dynamism outward, toward the global economy. Use the full force of the state to control the oceans, protect commerce and defeat illiberal adversaries abroad. Open the global system to others, even your enemies, if they agree to abide by the rules. Then the world's waters -- and markets -- will be yours.
 Mead believes that England and her runaway son, America, have been uniquely suited to following these protocols. The Glorious Revolution of 1688 gave birth to political pluralism. Then Protestantism shucked off the old fear of cultural change that characterized Catholicism and made us see embracing change as part of God's work. Anglo-American culture became thoroughly Protestantized: we are all WASPs now.
 It's an elegant thesis, drawing on a lush, literate kaleidoscope of sources, from John Milton to Lewis Carroll to Karl Popper. To find a foreign policy expert so soaked in poetry and philosophy is undoubtedly charming. But is his argument persuasive?
 Mead presents these empires as essentially benevolent confections, offering a model of rule so seductive that ''people choose freely to belong'' to them. He says that by 1851, it looked as if ''the Peaceable Kingdom had arrived; British power, progress, prosperity and liberty were ushering in the universal rule of peace.'' Really? Is that how it looked in, say, India? When Clive of India came to Bengal, he described it -- in a way all visitors of the time did -- as ''extensive, populous and as rich as the city of London.'' It was a place of such ''richness and abundance'' that ''neither war, pestilence nor oppression could destroy'' it. But within a century of British occupation, the population of its largest city, Calcutta, fell from 150,000 to 30,000 as its industries were wrecked in the interests of the mother country. By the time the British left, Calcutta was one of the poorest places in the world. Is this really the baton the United States should pick up? 
 Mead does offer up a few comments on various imperial atrocities -- but even here, his descriptions are strangely anodyne. He concedes that ''the American Indians were not treated well,'' a rather sterile way to describe a genocide. Even when he does admit in passing that there were imperial ''evils,'' he swiftly insists that anyone who calls them ''coldly calculated, deliberate crimes,'' rather than ''excesses, blunders or regrettable misjudgments by young soldiers in the heat of action,'' is a 
 ''WASPophobe'' riven with irrational prejudice. This is strange. Most of the British imperial crimes he alludes to were not ''blunders'' by ''young soldiers.'' They were deliberate crimes carefully planned and ordered from London and her proxies. 
 Then comes the most surprising omission. A book written today, calling for the United States to become a self-conscious empire, surely has to reckon with the hemorrhaging of American power in Iraq. Yet the reader waits -- and waits. Iraq is first mentioned as a target for America's critics. It takes Mead 362 pages before he notes that the war has brought ''untold grief and pain to innocent victims.'' Iraq does not, it seems, have strategic implications worth discussing at any length. The United States should continue to attempt to rule the world, regardless of its inability to rule one collapsing country.
 Perhaps sensing these awkward omissions, Mead ends with a call for a rehabilitation of the thought of the late theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. This uber-Protestant sought to place the idea of original sin at the center of politics. All men are fallen -- so politics need to be constantly doubtful and conscious of their own hideous flaws. But how does this fit with Mead's demand for an American empire? Imperialism is by its nature bombastic; it has to suppress the memory of the violence it commits to perpetuate its power, or it would lose faith in its own goodness. A humble imperialism is a contradiction in terms. Mead offers the most eloquent possible defence of the swarm of WASPs that has shaped the world for centuries. But, ultimately, his God and his gold do not glitter.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); CRICKET (72%); HISTORY (71%); OCEANS (67%); WRITERS (65%); POETRY (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); ENGLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

TITLE: God and Gold (Book)>; God and Gold (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



411 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Reagan's Southern Stumble

BYLINE: By LOU CANNON. 
Lou Cannon is the author of five books on , Ronald Reagan and a co-author of the forthcoming ''Reagan's Disciple: George W. Bush's Troubled Quest for a Presidential Legacy.''

DATELINE: Summerland, Calif. 

 BODY:
 POLITICAL mythologies endure. One myth that is enjoying a revival in a year when Republican presidential candidates are comparing themselves to Ronald Reagan, their iconic hero, is the notion that Mr. Reagan defeated President Jimmy Carter in 1980 by a coded appeal to white-supremacist voters.
 The core of this myth is the claim that Mr. Reagan scored a political masterstroke when he spoke on Aug. 3, 1980, at the Neshoba County Fair in Mississippi. At the fair, Mr. Reagan told a cheering and mostly white audience, ''I believe in states' rights'' and that as president he would do all he could to ''restore to states and local governments the power that properly belongs to them.'' 
 He had been talking this way for two decades as part of his pitch that the federal government had become too powerful. What was different this day was not Mr. Reagan's words but where he said them: Nearby Philadelphia, Miss., was notorious for the murders in 1964 of three civil-rights workers, killed in cold blood with police complicity. 
 In the wake of Neshoba, Mr. Reagan's critics pounced. President Carter's campaign operatives portrayed Mr. Reagan as a divisive racist. At a money-raising event in Chicago, Mr. Carter told his audience: ''You'll determine whether this America will be unified, or, if I lose this election, Americans might be separated black from white, Jew from Christian, North from South, rural from urban.'' 
 The mythology of Neshoba is wrong in two distinct ways. First, Ronald Reagan was not a racist. Second, his Neshoba speech was not an effective symbolic appeal to white voters. Instead, it was a political misstep that cost him support.
 Any fair-minded look at Mr. Reagan's biography and record demonstrates that he was not a bigot. In 1931, when Mr. Reagan was on the Eureka College football team, two black players were refused admission to a hotel in Elmhurst, Ill., where the team was playing. Mr. Reagan took them with him to Dixon, Ill., to spend the night at his parents' home. He and one of the players, William Franklin Burghardt, remained friends and correspondents until Mr. Burghardt died in 1981.
 As a sports announcer in Iowa in the 1930s, Mr. Reagan opposed the segregation of Major League Baseball. As an actor in Hollywood he quit a Los Angeles country club because it did not admit Jews. In 1978, when preparing to run for president, Mr. Reagan opposed a California ballot initiative that would have barred homosexuals from teaching in the state's public schools. He was widely credited for its defeat. (Mr. Reagan was understandably anathema in the black community not because of his personal views but because of his consistent opposition to federal civil rights legislation, most notably the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965.)
 Far from being a masterstroke, the Neshoba speech was a mistake made by a candidate who had not yet become the skilled operator the nation would see as president. Surveys by Richard Wirthlin, his pollster, showed that Mr. Reagan had little hope of winning black support but was competitive among moderate white voters who wanted a president who would be sensitive to minority issues. The Neshoba appearance hurt Mr. Reagan with these voters in the target states of Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania without bolstering his standing among conservative Southern whites.
 Knowing that it would be damaging, Mr. Wirthlin urged Mr. Reagan to cancel the Neshoba speech. Mr. Reagan wouldn't do it. He had a showman's superstition that it was bad luck to cancel an engagement once it was booked. 
 It was one of many blunders Mr. Reagan made in August 1980 when he was an undisciplined candidate who lacked an effective campaign manager. He sent his running mate, George H. W. Bush, on a mission of reassurance to China, then undermined Mr. Bush by praising Taiwan. He provoked an uproar at a veterans' convention by calling the Vietnam War a ''noble cause.'' He gave a rambling answer to a reporter's question that seemed to endorse creationism. 
 Mr. Reagan was rescued by his secret weapon: his wife, Nancy Reagan. She brought in his onetime California political manager, Stuart Spencer, who helped focus both the candidate and the campaign. Once Mr. Spencer arrived, Mr. Reagan talked no more of Taiwan, creationism or states' rights. Instead, he focused on the failed leadership of Mr. Carter and his unpopular economic policies, borrowing from Franklin D. Roosevelt to ask Americans if they were better off than they had been four years ago.
 In November, Mr. Reagan won the presidency in an electoral landslide. Neshoba had nothing to do with it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); BALLOTS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BASEBALL (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); JIMMY CARTER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



412 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Artificial Intelligence

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DICKEY. 
Christopher Dickey, the Paris bureau chief and Middle East editor for Newsweek, writes a weekly column on police work, espionage and counterterrorism for Newsweek.com.

 BODY:
CURVEBALL 
 Spies, Lies, and the Con Man Who Caused a War. 
 By Bob Drogin. 
 343 pp. Random House. $26.95. 
 IN the last months before the American-led invasion of Iraq, as we now know all too well, the administration of President George W. Bush showed a fine disregard for truth or consequences. This manifested itself in many ways, from insinuations about Saddam Hussein's ephemeral Qaeda connections to the Pentagon's willful refusal to address the human and economic costs of occupation. Bookstore shelves now groan with wide-ranging accounts struggling to chronicle the pathological hubris that drove the United States onward to Baghdad. 
 The Los Angeles Times national security correspondent Bob Drogin has taken a more focused approach. In ''Curveball: Spies, Lies, and the Con Man Who Caused a War,'' he concentrates on a central question: How was it, precisely, that the administration convinced itself and the American public that there was proof Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction? Of course the hawks pushing for invasion believed this almost as a matter of faith, but their theology wasn't going to be enough to mobilize hundreds of thousands of soldiers and hundreds of billions of dollars. So the W.M.D. threat became the most important of the many reasons given for going to war: ''Simply stated,'' as Vice President Dick Cheney put it, ''there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein now has weapons of mass destruction.'' This is a story of willful blindness masquerading as secret intelligence that is worthy of Somerset Maugham or Graham Greene, and Drogin rises to the occasion.
 His narrative of bureaucracy and treachery weaves the stories of Cheney; Bush; George Tenet, then the director of central intelligence; and assorted spies around a shadowy character who lurks golem-like at the middle of the intelligence swamp: an Iraqi asylum-seeker in Germany who said he had firsthand knowledge of Hussein's biological weapons program and offered copious details to support his claims.
 The man in question was often described in public pronouncements as ''the defector.'' When Colin Powell, then the secretary of state, presented the case for war to the United Nations in February 2003, he called him ''an eyewitness, an Iraqi chemical engineer who supervised'' one of the biological weapons sites. According to Powell, the defector ''actually was present during the biological agent production runs. He was also at the site when an accident occurred in 1998. Twelve technicians died from exposure to biological agents.'' Having suggested this amazing source was one of those ''who have risked their lives to let the world know what Saddam Hussein is really up to,'' Powell now told the hushed United Nations Security Council, and the world, ''This defector is currently hiding in another country with the certain knowledge that Saddam Hussein will kill him if he finds him.''
 A better word for the defector, in fact, was ''fabricator.'' With marvelous chutzpah, the source had made it all up. He had landed in Munich in November 1999 looking for asylum and wound up in the grim Zirndorf holding center. He wanted an immigrant visa and money. So, drawing on bits and pieces of his personal experience and a lot of reading on the Internet, he persuaded the German Federal Intelligence Service that he had information it coveted. The United States Defense Intelligence Agency, which got summaries of the German reports but no transcripts, code-named the source ''Curve Ball.'' The Germans warned the Americans he might be unreliable but would not let any American intelligence officer interview him. After 9/11, as the Bush administration focused its ''war on terror'' against Saddam Hussein as well as Osama bin Laden, and despite all the warning signals, the Central Intelligence Agency bought into Curveball sight unseen. Its experts in weapons of mass destruction endorsed his deception as truth. The skeptics within the agency were ignored.
 How could this be? Today, the Bush administration's conviction that Hussein had W.M.D. seems grimly risible. But that wasn't the case in 2001. Hussein had had an arsenal of poisonous gases and used them in his wars against Iran and the Kurds in the 1980s. During the same period, he had developed a sophisticated nuclear program that might eventually have produced a bomb. He had experimented extensively with biological weapons. Yes, Hussein's defeat in 1991 by the American-led coalition in Operation Desert Storm forced him to open up to United Nations weapons inspection teams, and they eventually searched out and destroyed just about every bit of W.M.D. in Iraq. But in 1998 the inspectors withdrew so the Americans could lead a brief but extensive air assault on the regime, and then, when those bombings failed to achieve their goals, the inspectors were not allowed to return. 
 ''Their departure was a disaster for the C.I.A.,'' Drogin writes. ''The agency had infiltrated spies into the U.N. teams, and the inspectors became the C.I.A.'s eyes and ears in Iraq. Now they might as well scribble the Latin hic sunt dracones on the map: here be dragons. The Americans had failed to recruit a single Iraqi agent, not one, who was close to Saddam's illicit weapons programs.'' 
 Intelligence analysts assumed Hussein had reconstituted at least part of his programs, but that was impossible to know for sure. When Curveball started talking to the Germans in 2000, he seemed to fill the void. His critical information: Iraq had developed laboratories mounted on trucks that could produce biological weapons like anthrax or botulinum toxin but would be almost impossible to detect. There had been rumors of such a project before. Curveball's account was taken as confirmation they existed. It occurred to only a few C.I.A. officers that he had heard those rumors, too, and fitted them neatly into his fabrication. But their criticisms were dismissed.
 The highest and lowest drama in Drogin's book is the spectacle of administration evidence about Iraq's weapons evanescing in the months before -- and after -- the invasion. The United Nations, responding to American pressure, forced Hussein to let inspectors return in late 2002, but they found there was nothing much to find, even at the sites Curveball had talked about. Secretary Powell clearly knew something was wrong as he prepared his speech to the United Nations just weeks before the war was due to begin. He threw out an incendiary and unverifiable draft prepared by Cheney's office and did his best to force the C.I.A. to stand behind its information. (Indeed, Tenet was seated behind him at the United Nations.) The unseen ''mobile biological labs'' confected by Curveball came to seem ''the most solid piece of intelligence,'' said Powell's chief of staff, Col. Lawrence Wilkerson.
 In a real sense -- and this is worth remembering as we listen to the drumbeat for military attacks against Iran today -- doubts did not matter. The invasion of Iraq had been decided in 2002 and was going to happen in 2003 no matter what information came to the administration. ''Under pressure to build the case for war,'' Drogin writes, ''the C.I.A. chiefs figured they'd get to Baghdad, find warehouses full of W.M.D., and no one would remember a bogus defector.'' It turns out they were wrong about that too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY STUBBLEBINE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (87%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); RELIGION (66%); ENGINEERING (64%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (62%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007



413 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Protocons

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMAGE. 
Michael Kimmage is an assistant professor of history at the Catholic University of America.

 BODY:
THE CONSERVATIVE ASCENDANCY 
 How the GOP Right Made Political History. 
 By Donald T. Critchlow. 
 359 pp. Harvard University Press. $27.95. 
 In the years between Franklin Roosevelt's first victory in 1932 and Richard Nixon's resignation in 1974, the Republican Party experienced many disasters. Behind them was a conservative movement that started in the political wilderness, a band of maverick intellectuals exiled from fashion and power in the 1940s and '50s, doubtful of their claim on the future. 
 Yet this movement gradually transformed the Republican Party, and a newly conservative G.O.P. transformed American politics. According to Donald Critchlow in his new book, ''The Conservative Ascendancy,'' the party made history by falling on its winning side. 
 Critchlow emphasizes the hubris of the Democratic Party, which saw New Deal social democracy as a recipe for enduring success -- only to find its coalition, its ideas and its cultural style inadequate to the postwar era. By the time Jimmy Carter was elected in 1976, he ''found his major opposition coming from those within his own party,'' Critchlow writes. The Democratic Party was divided against itself, a house on the verge of collapse. Carter in 1980, Walter Mondale in 1984 and Michael Dukakis in 1988 all lost to their Republican rivals, leaving Democrats unsure of their connection to voters.
 In Critchlow's view, Democrats fell victim to ideas that were rooted in an industrial order. After World War II, a postindustrial economy emerged -- fluid, competitive and decentralized. Cities yielded to suburbs; sexuality was redefined; the Northeast lost people and power to the Southwest. The postindustrial economy ushered in the Republican right. In 1964, Barry Goldwater, a libertarian from Arizona, became the first presidential candidate to espouse the new conservatism. In 1980, Ronald Reagan, patron saint of the movement, left California for the most reviled city on the right: Washington, D.C., seat of the federal behemoth. Together, Goldwater and Reagan buried the old moderate Republican Party, while Reagan buried Franklin Roosevelt's Democratic Party.
 Critchlow, a professor of history at St. Louis University, skillfully shows the connection among ideas, institutions and the conservative ascendancy. His previous books include a monograph on the activist Phyllis Schlafly, and in this survey he draws on her biography to impressive effect. Schlafly, who began her political life in the 1940s at the precursor to the American Enterprise Institute, built a bridge between the Republican Party and grass-roots conservatives outraged first by Communism, then by feminism. She wrote a best-selling book in praise of Goldwater and forged a network of conservatives politicized by the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. This network and others like it helped elect Reagan. As a Catholic and a woman, Schlafly was not an obvious conservative hero. Her political trajectory illustrates the broadening of conservatism, without which there would have been no ascendancy.
 Critchlow has more difficulty integrating the neoconservatives into his argument. A neoconservative current, ''rife with personal ambition and intellectual arrogance,'' sought to replace big-government ''bureaucratic liberalism'' with a more corporate-style ''managerial conservatism.'' Since Critchlow concedes that many neoconservative assumptions are liberal in essence, he should analyze neoconservatism in opposition to the Republican right. Neoconservatives' commitment to the civil rights movement, their moderate attachment to the welfare state and especially their Wilsonian idealism in foreign policy have made the G.O.P. more liberal, to the extent that they have influenced the party at all. 
 Critchlow takes his analysis up to 2004, letting recent history cast a curious shadow over his book. George W. Bush stands at the end of its argument, his election in 2000 commensurate to ''the Republican triumph,'' completing ''a political struggle that conservatives had begun a half century earlier.'' Yet the 2000 election was the least conclusive in American history, and the 2002 and 2004 elections, which were indeed triumphs for the Republicans and the right, have not yielded a durable mandate for either.
 The conservative ascendancy owes more to the charismatic Reagan than to abstract structural changes. Nixon, who promoted civil rights and flew to China, was not an ideological conservative. George H. W. Bush was a pragmatist and a realist, his presidency ''a setback for conservatives,'' in Critchlow's judgment. Even Reagan, he says, ''failed to impose a permanent conservative regime within the Republican Party.'' If the postindustrial economy truly favored the American right's blend of libertarianism and social conservatism, this combination should be ascendant across the globe. Instead, it is all but invisible outside Britain and Australia, and no longer ascendant in the United States.
 A dubious guide to the future of American politics, Critchlow's study helps frame the past. The right revived the fortunes of the postwar Republican Party, offering ideas, institutions and grass-roots organization to create an effective coalition, while the radical left, from the 1930s on, has been a burden to the Democratic Party. Coming after Reagan, Bill Clinton captured (and kept) the White House by banishing the far left and moving his party to the right. In this sense, the conservative ascendancy has made bipartisan history.
 Critchlow's book can be simplified into a single axiom, ready to be tested in a campaign season. Those eager for political ascendancy should abandon faith in a permanent status quo, liberal or conservative. They should embrace the arduous -- but often transformative -- work of thinking and organizing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Right: Barry Goldwater at an Arizona parade, JULY 4, 1964. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BESTSELLERS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); RICHARD NIXON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



414 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: On Strike Nov. 11-17

 BODY:
THE NEWS Most of Broadway was dark last week as stagehands continued their strike over new work rules producers are pushing.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The strike, which began Nov. 10, crippled Broadway and hurt the Midtown economy as the holiday season approached. Twenty-seven shows were shuttered, including ''Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical.'' Eight shows and all Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway productions remained open, however. The last strike, a four-day walkout by musicians in 2003, cost the city about $7 million a day, tourism officials said at the time. Both sides planned to meet on Saturday to negotiate. 
THE NEWS In Los Angeles, screenwriters walked picket lines for a second week in their strike against Hollywood producers.
 BEHIND THE NEWS More than 12,000 writers went on strike on Nov. 5, the first industrywide walkout by writers since 1988. Some make millions a year; others, less than $50,000. Many are unemployed. But all want more money for the use of movies and TV shows on video and online, money the studios say must go to cover rising costs. Late-night talk shows are in reruns, but most prime-time series have enough new episodes to last into January. The 1988 strike lasted five months and cost the industry about $500 million.
 THE NEWS Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel appealed to middle school and high school teachers to end their nationwide strike. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The public school teachers walked off their jobs about six weeks ago in a dispute over wages and working conditions. Tens of thousands of students have found themselves with an unexpected vacation as a result. On Friday, the prime minister asked the teachers to return to their classrooms and pledged to raise wages by up to 35 percent, reduce class sizes and hire more teachers. Strike leaders welcomed Mr. Olmert's involvement but planned to go ahead with a Saturday night protest rally in Tel Aviv. 
 THE NEWS German train drivers pressed for higher pay by staging a three-day strike against the state-owned railway Deutsche Bahn AG.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The biggest rail strike in Germany's history tied up freight traffic, shut down an auto factory and stranded hundreds of thousands of passengers. The GDL, the train drivers' union, has demanded a 31 percent increase in wages; the railway says it has offered a raise of about 10 percent. Both sides dug in last week as the union warned of more strikes. For Deutsche Bahn, the standoff comes at a bad time; the government hopes to sell off as much as 49 percent of the railway to private hands by 2009. 
 THE NEWS It was tough getting around France, as transport workers went on strike in a dispute over pension benefits.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Commuters were left to walk, bicycle or rollerskate to work in the showdown between unions and President Nicolas Sarkozy over his plans to reduce retirement benefits for about 500,000 public sector workers. The dispute is seen as a test for Mr. Sarkozy, who has pledged to make France more competitive. The impact of the strike diminished as the week wore on; nearly 68 percent of drivers for the national railway went to work on Friday, up from 40 percent on Wednesday, The Associated Press reported. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRIS PIZZELLO/REUTERS
MAYA LEVIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
OLIVER BERG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 PASCAL ROSSIGNOL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); TRAINS (85%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); FILM (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); MUSIC (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); THEATER (58%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BAHN AG (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC4013 RAILROAD SWITCHING & TERMINAL ESTABLISHMENTS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



415 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2527 words

HEADLINE: Up, Up and Away

BYLINE: By SUSAN STEWART

DATELINE: LARCHMONT 

 BODY:
CLARKE AUCTION GALLERY is a cavernous barn of a building that sits at the end of an alley behind Larchmont's main shopping drag. Although Clarke's is less than a block away from pricey furniture and accessories stores, there is nothing fancy about it -- unless you count the Steinway baby grand that sold there last month, or the $10,000 Russian box, or the beautiful Buddha lamp that should be mine. ...
But this is not about my lamp. Not entirely.
 Clarke's is a sleepy place three weeks a month, a repository for the estate furniture, art and collectibles overseen by the owner of the business, Joseph Ronan Clarke, 52, a Dublin-born auctioneer who learned his trade in London and once worked as a lighting technician for the English punk-rock band the Sex Pistols. 
 Mr. Clarke, known as Ron; Diana C. Onyshkewych, the manager; and the rest of the staff members (8 regulars and as many as 19 at auction time) seek out items that they will later appraise, move, photograph and catalog. Then, for a weekend, the place is abuzz as dealers and collectors preview merchandise in preparation for the Monday night auction.
 At 6 p.m., Ruben Krigsman, a retired executive from Harrison, was settling in for the long haul. There were 460 lots -- items or groups of items -- for sale. A couple of tables held phones for bidders who would be calling in. There were 506 arranged absentee bids from prospective buyers who couldn't be there but had guaranteed certain prices for certain objects. About 50 live bidders sat on folding chairs, numbered paper paddles in their hands for signaling bids.
 This was an average-size auction for a small auction house, but there are great variations in auctions around the region. Robert Edward Auctions, a sports memorabilia business in Watchung, N.J., holds only one a year. Edward is strictly an Internet auction house, whose average lot sells for more than $5,000 and whose monthlong bidding period attracts some 200,000 online bidders. Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, in Branchville, N.J., where automobiles and farm equipment as well as antiques are sold, has two auctions a month, which it has begun Webcasting.
 Clarke's is a retro kind of auction house, low key and quirky and about as different from Sotheby's as it is possible to be. 
 ''They're low on the food chain,'' said Leon Castner, who, since selling his own auction house, teaches courses in antique appraisal. ''What they sell is going to be turned over three or four times.''
 In other words, Mr. Castner says, much of the merchandise at Clarke's consists of ''virgin items'' -- estate furnishings that haven't been resold before (or recently) and whose value may be unclear. These goods are at the beginning of the process by which one person's old chair, for instance, eventually becomes another's fabulous find.
 Junk, some might say. Or, just as easily, undiscovered treasure.
 Ruben -- you make friends fast in the fevered atmosphere of an auction -- had his eye on a weather vane, but he was also there to watch the mid-20th-century lots. Mr. Clarke was auctioning a couple of Manhattan collections of furniture from the '50s and '60s. There were shag rugs and white plastic, mirror balls and Danish modern: ''Austin Powers'' meets ''The Jetsons.''
 Ruben loves midcentury.
 ''A couple of pieces I have are considered the holy grail of Scandinavian design,'' he said. He then described ''a giant bird with a clock in its chest.''
 He said his home is ''kind of an exciting house.'' He seemed like a good person to sit next to.
 Ms. Onyshkewych started the bidding with Lot No. 1, an antique Persian carpet. It went for a mere $40. I felt my pulse quicken. I once bought a rug at a yard sale for $40 -- I could do this. But I remembered the words of Nancy Sasso, a Larchmont resident and auction veteran.
 ''I have made mistakes,'' she said, looking at a couple of reproduction cane-backed chairs during a preview period at Clarke's. ''I bought an oversize rug that didn't even fit in my house. I had to fold it over.''
 Clarke's sells a lot of vintage furniture and a lot of reproductions. Mr. Clarke expects his buyers to know the difference. They bear the responsibility for their choices, and consigners -- the people whose property is being auctioned -- know that he rarely puts a reserve, or minimum, price on items.
 ''I have 460 lots tonight,'' he said. ''I will sell all of them. If I have to sell it for a dollar, I'll sell it for a dollar.''
 Mr. Castner said that local, small auctions usually don't use minimums ''because they're a headache.'' 
 ''With no reserve,'' he said, ''you do have a chance of finding that one item that's worth so much.''
 Some auction houses take a middle path. ''I put a reserve only on certain articles, and they have to be expensive,'' said Tom LeClair, who, with his sister, Missy, runs the Clearing House Auction Galleries, which his parents started 47 years ago in Wethersfield, Conn. Like most auctioneers, Mr. LeClair makes his money by charging consigners a commission on the sale, ranging from 5 to 50 percent, depending on the value of the item (the more valuable, the less commission the consigner pays).
 Forgoing reserves is Mr. Clarke's way of ''keeping things moving.'' It also gives hope to the poor. Those of us who can't afford to buy fine antiques at retail know that, at an auction, we might just get lucky.
 ''Let's face it,'' said Katherine Doyle, chief executive of Doyle New York, a Manhattan auction house. ''People are always, always looking for something that wasn't cataloged properly.''
 I knew the feeling. As I studied the lots, my near-total ignorance of antiques did not prevent me from picking out certain items whose value, I was sure, nobody else had discerned: a pair of white porcelain monkeys hanging from the ceiling, a French spice cabinet, a mirrored Louis XV reproduction coffee table, and the Buddha lamp.
 I was particularly smitten by the Buddha, serenely draped in an azure robe. But it was Lot No. 375; we had miles to go.
 Ruben and I sat through Austrian boxes and Italian wall mirrors, bronze dog andirons ($850) and sterling cocktail shakers. There was a thrill when a Russian silver-and-enamel box estimated to sell for $600 to $900 brought $10,000. Mr. Clarke said, ''Going, going, gone'' for the first time (his usual phrase was ''Last chance, fair warning''). Everybody applauded.
 ''They think it's Faberge,'' Ruben whispered, with a shrug. 
 Clarke's has sold some pricey items -- its Nov. 5 art auction featured a John Wilde painting that sold for $48,000. The success of eBay and television programs like ''Antiques Roadshow'' has increasingly pushed Clarke's and other midlevel auction houses toward the fine art market, or at least toward the expensive and away from the cheap.
 One factor in this trend is the practice of charging buyers' premiums. The three big Manhattan auction houses -- Sotheby's, Christie's and Doyle -- announced recently that they would increase their surcharge to winning bidders to 25 percent an item, from 20 percent, for goods under $20,000. (Higher-priced items have lower surcharges, or premiums.) Clarke's, like many auction houses outside the city, charges a buyer's premium of 15 percent.
 ''I give as much attention to a $200 item as to a $50,000 one,'' Mr. Clarke is fond of saying.
 Paul D. Marinucci, who owns Butterscotch Auction Gallery in Katonah, the only other Westchester auction house, said: ''It's not a thriving business. It's a subculture in that we have a following of people who've been coming for a long time.''
 Mr. LeClair, of Clearing House, said about 75 percent of his weekly bidders are regulars. ''They're in the trade, they're private parties, and they're vendors.''
 And they have more opportunities in auction-rich Connecticut than anywhere else in the region, he said, for one simple reason. ''No auctioneer licenses are required in Connecticut,'' he said. ''You hang out a shingle, you're in business. In New York and New Jersey, you need licenses.''
 Licensed or not, regional auction houses are all feeling the changes wrought by the Internet, which gives the smallest local business the potential for an international presence.
 ''What used to be sold at auctions was appealing locally,'' said Ms. Doyle. ''Now it's the higher-priced object that appeals to a global market.''
 Still, at Clarke's, there is midvalue merchandise to be found.
 ''A $5,000 item in the city is one of many,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''But a $5,000 item here can stand out and do well.''
 To procure those $5,000 items, Mr. Clarke spends most of his time appraising estates, hoping to get them as consignments. The morning of the auction, he had snapped up a good one on Central Park South.
 ''New York is just incredible,'' he said. ''People say the English and Irish have the antiques, but they don't -- they're here.''
 How had he convinced the family on Central Park South that he was the man to auction their furnishings? Mr. Clarke laughed.
 ''The minute they heard the accent, I had it.''
 Like most suburban auction houses, Clarke's is not Christie's or Sotheby's or Doyle. But neither is it a repository of the kind of things you would find at a church bazaar. It's a place where dealers like Timothy Riordan, who owns an antique shop in New Rochelle, occasionally get deals.
 Mr. Riordan examined a bull's-eye mirror before the August auction, and described how he could rebuild the frame, add new gold leaf and resell it. He was describing the work of a ''mover,'' a local dealer who buys low, fixes up and sells high: the mainstay of the used-furniture economy. Most of the bidders at Clarke's fall into that category.
 ''I have a big nut here,'' Mr. Clarke said, noting that his business could not survive if he depended only on private townspeople. ''If I relied on Larchmont, I wouldn't make it. I need the trade.''
 That includes people like Peter Schweller, who deals in old master prints in Manhattan. Mr. Schweller helped work the auction phones, and went for a midnight breakfast at a local diner with the Clarke's crew.
 ''What he looks at,'' Mr. Schweller said of Mr. Clarke, ''is what New York is going to be looking at.''
 Mr. Clarke said, ''I'm a good picker,'' adding that during his youth in Ireland and England he had spent more time in flea markets than in school.
 ''At 3 p.m. in Camden Town they'd bring in barrels of ale,'' he said mistily. ''You can't get a drink in Brimfield at midnight,'' he said, referring to the big Connecticut antique fair, where 10,000 dealers gather twice a year to resell what they buy at places like Clarke's.
 Mr. Clarke prides himself on honesty and says he does not let bidders and consigners inflate prices artificially, even if it would mean bigger one-time sales.
 ''It's a bit of a dishonest business, so it's easy to seem honest,'' he said.
 ''A guy who's spending $100,000 a year with me -- why would I want to hurt him?'' he said.
 Still, auctions breed conflict.
 ''One guy wrote to consumer affairs,'' Mr. Clarke said, ''and said not only did I sell his table cheap, but I was in collusion with the police.'' (There is usually an off-duty officer at the auctions to supervise parking and loading.) Mr. Clarke said that another disappointed consigner lost a suit against him in Mamaroneck Court over the low price he got for his hall mirror.
 It's a ''buyer beware'' business, but that doesn't mean such stories are rare.
 Robert Lifson of Robert Edward Auctions, the sports memorabilia auctioneer in Watchung, spoke of a man who was '' relentless in telling us we'd misdescribed some baseball cards'' that he bought.
 ''We'd called them 'fair to good,' and he thought they were in 'poor' condition,'' Mr. Lifson said. ''For his $1,300 lot, he sent calculations worthy of Einstein. His adjustment, in the end, was $11. I sent him the $11. It was so stupid.''
 Mr. Lifson carries fire and theft insurance; other auctioneers, like Mr. LeClair, carry ''errors and omissions'' insurance that covers the kind of appraisal mistakes that could cost a consigner big money. Usually, of course, it works the other way. 
 ''A lot of people think that their items are more valuable than they are,'' Mr. Clarke said after the Monday auction. ''Those two armoires at the end tonight -- they died. That is what I will hear about.''
 The problem with the armoires? They were ''brown wood'' -- Mr. Clarke's favorite insult, synonymous with shabby chic.
 Ditto Victorian, which Mr. LeClair said is as unprofitable as it is ubiquitous.
 Styles change, Mr. Castner said, ''and brown wood is soft right now, but good stuff is always good stuff.''
 After a couple of hours of good stuff and not-so-good stuff -- and no bargains -- we were less than halfway through the auction.
 ''I'm bored to death,'' Ruben whispered. Then he told me about a chest he had bought at Clarke's for $1,000 and sold for $5,000. He wasn't going anywhere.
 LOT 203, my hanging monkeys, went for $1,200. That price -- more than twice the estimate -- put to rest any lingering self-doubt. Clearly, I had an eye. I started planning where I would put my Buddha lamp.
 Ruben gave me a sidelong glance. ''You can get bargains,'' he said, ''but not in this crowd.''
 Twenty minutes later, Ruben had his weather vane -- for $900, triple the estimated price. The minute it was his, it became a bargain.
 ''That was really worth $2,000,'' he said happily.
 We had been there for almost four hours. In the back, the proprietor of a local deli was packing up his brownies and coffee machine. The bidders who had come for the midcentury lots were long gone. Mr. Clarke was muttering about ''cheap'' bids.
 Entertainment was provided by Jose Olivera, the floor manager. Mr. Olivera wore Belleek vases on his brow like horns. Displaying an Asian dog's-head sculpture, he stuck his hand through the mouth and wagged it like a tongue. The head brought $375 -- $75 over the estimate.
 At 11:20, I eagerly held up my paddle when Mr. Clarke opened bids on my Buddha lamp. $75, $125 ... suddenly somebody on the phone was offering $450. I couldn't believe it. I also couldn't afford it.
 I could probably have gotten the French spice cabinet, but when bidding stopped at $180, I stopped, too, afraid I was the only person who didn't realize it was from Restoration Hardware. (It wasn't.)
 ''It's a sophisticated audience'' Ms. Onyschkewych said the next day. ''Certain non-rare country items don't tend to go too high.''
 A non-rare country item -- that's me.
 I got the name of the thief who had purloined my Buddha lamp and called her. She has an antique shop in Manhattan.
 ''This is not a good time,'' she said, the first time I called her.
 ''I am so busy,'' she said the second time. I begged her to tell me about my lamp. 
 She said this: ''I think it's 19th century, that Buddha. 1870s.''
 I had loved the Buddha when it was a mere 1930s Art Deco novelty. I felt even more strongly that this woman did not deserve it. But that is the difference between real auction people and neophytes. Like breeders, dealers keep their emotions in check and their eyes on the prize, or at least the price. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKE HIM AN OFFER At an auction at Clarke Auction Gallery, above, in Larchmont, the owner of the business, Ron Clarke, left, oversaw the bidding, while staff members displayed the items available.MAKE HIM AN OFFER At an auction at Clarke Auction Gallery, above, in Larchmont, the owner of the business, Ron Clarke, left, oversaw the bidding, while staff members displayed the items available. (pg.WE1)
GROWING, GROWING, GONE Above: An on-site auction of farm equipment, above, conducted last month in Stillwater, N.J., by Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, based in nearby Branchville. Right: The auction hall stage at Clearing House Auction Galleries in Wethersfield, Conn., has a revolving platform for displaying items on the block. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (75%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (75%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); POP & ROCK (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



416 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2527 words

HEADLINE: Up, Up and Away

BYLINE: By SUSAN STEWART

DATELINE: LARCHMONT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
CLARKE AUCTION GALLERY is a cavernous barn of a building that sits at the end of an alley behind Larchmont's main shopping drag. Although Clarke's is less than a block away from pricey furniture and accessories stores, there is nothing fancy about it -- unless you count the Steinway baby grand that sold there last month, or the $10,000 Russian box, or the beautiful Buddha lamp that should be mine. ...
But this is not about my lamp. Not entirely.
 Clarke's is a sleepy place three weeks a month, a repository for the estate furniture, art and collectibles overseen by the owner of the business, Joseph Ronan Clarke, 52, a Dublin-born auctioneer who learned his trade in London and once worked as a lighting technician for the English punk-rock band the Sex Pistols. 
 Mr. Clarke, known as Ron; Diana C. Onyshkewych, the manager; and the rest of the staff members (8 regulars and as many as 19 at auction time) seek out items that they will later appraise, move, photograph and catalog. Then, for a weekend, the place is abuzz as dealers and collectors preview merchandise in preparation for the Monday night auction.
 At 6 p.m., Ruben Krigsman, a retired executive from Harrison, N.Y., was settling in for the long haul. There were 460 lots -- items or groups of items -- for sale. A couple of tables held phones for bidders who would be calling in. There were 506 arranged absentee bids from prospective buyers who couldn't be there but had guaranteed certain prices for certain objects. About 50 live bidders sat on folding chairs, numbered paper paddles in their hands for signaling bids.
 This was an average-size auction for a small auction house, but there are great variations in auctions around the region. Robert Edward Auctions, a sports memorabilia business in Watchung, N.J., holds only one a year. Edward is strictly an Internet auction house, whose average lot sells for more than $5,000 and whose monthlong bidding period attracts some 200,000 online bidders. Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, in Branchville, N.J., where automobiles and farm equipment as well as antiques are sold, has two auctions a month, which it has begun Webcasting.
 Clarke's is a retro kind of auction house, low key and quirky and about as different from Sotheby's as it is possible to be. 
 ''They're low on the food chain,'' said Leon Castner, who, since selling his own auction house, teaches courses in antique appraisal. ''What they sell is going to be turned over three or four times.''
 In other words, Mr. Castner says, much of the merchandise at Clarke's consists of ''virgin items'' -- estate furnishings that haven't been resold before (or recently) and whose value may be unclear. These goods are at the beginning of the process by which one person's old chair, for instance, eventually becomes another's fabulous find.
 Junk, some might say. Or, just as easily, undiscovered treasure.
 Ruben -- you make friends fast in the fevered atmosphere of an auction -- had his eye on a weather vane, but he was also there to watch the mid-20th-century lots. Mr. Clarke was auctioning a couple of Manhattan collections of furniture from the '50s and '60s. There were shag rugs and white plastic, mirror balls and Danish modern: ''Austin Powers'' meets ''The Jetsons.''
 Ruben loves midcentury.
 ''A couple of pieces I have are considered the holy grail of Scandinavian design,'' he said. He then described ''a giant bird with a clock in its chest.''
 He said his home is ''kind of an exciting house.'' He seemed like a good person to sit next to.
 Ms. Onyshkewych started the bidding with Lot No. 1, an antique Persian carpet. It went for a mere $40. I felt my pulse quicken. I once bought a rug at a yard sale for $40 -- I could do this. But I remembered the words of Nancy Sasso, a Larchmont resident and auction veteran.
 ''I have made mistakes,'' she said, looking at a couple of reproduction cane-backed chairs during a preview period at Clarke's. ''I bought an oversize rug that didn't even fit in my house. I had to fold it over.''
 Clarke's sells a lot of vintage furniture and a lot of reproductions. Mr. Clarke expects his buyers to know the difference. They bear the responsibility for their choices, and consigners -- the people whose property is being auctioned -- know that he rarely puts a reserve, or minimum, price on items.
 ''I have 460 lots tonight,'' he said. ''I will sell all of them. If I have to sell it for a dollar, I'll sell it for a dollar.''
 Mr. Castner said that local, small auctions usually don't use minimums ''because they're a headache.'' 
 ''With no reserve,'' he said, ''you do have a chance of finding that one item that's worth so much.''
 Some auction houses take a middle path. ''I put a reserve only on certain articles, and they have to be expensive,'' said Tom LeClair, who, with his sister, Missy, runs the Clearing House Auction Galleries, which his parents started 47 years ago in Wethersfield. Like most auctioneers, Mr. LeClair makes his money by charging consigners a commission on the sale, ranging from 5 to 50 percent, depending on the value of the item (the more valuable, the less commission the consigner pays).
 Forgoing reserves is Mr. Clarke's way of ''keeping things moving.'' It also gives hope to the poor. Those of us who can't afford to buy fine antiques at retail know that, at an auction, we might just get lucky.
 ''Let's face it,'' said Katherine Doyle, chief executive of Doyle New York, a Manhattan auction house. ''People are always, always looking for something that wasn't cataloged properly.''
 I knew the feeling. As I studied the lots, my near-total ignorance of antiques did not prevent me from picking out certain items whose value, I was sure, nobody else had discerned: a pair of white porcelain monkeys hanging from the ceiling, a French spice cabinet, a mirrored Louis XV reproduction coffee table, and the Buddha lamp.
 I was particularly smitten by the Buddha, serenely draped in an azure robe. But it was Lot No. 375; we had miles to go.
 Ruben and I sat through Austrian boxes and Italian wall mirrors, bronze dog andirons ($850) and sterling cocktail shakers. There was a thrill when a Russian silver-and-enamel box estimated to sell for $600 to $900 brought $10,000. Mr. Clarke said, ''Going, going, gone'' for the first time (his usual phrase was ''Last chance, fair warning''). Everybody applauded.
 ''They think it's Faberge,'' Ruben whispered, with a shrug. 
 Clarke's has sold some pricey items -- its Nov. 5 art auction featured a John Wilde painting that sold for $48,000. The success of eBay and television programs like ''Antiques Roadshow'' has increasingly pushed Clarke's and other midlevel auction houses toward the fine art market, or at least toward the expensive and away from the cheap.
 One factor in this trend is the practice of charging buyers' premiums. The three big Manhattan auction houses -- Sotheby's, Christie's and Doyle -- announced recently that they would increase their surcharge to winning bidders to 25 percent an item, from 20 percent, for goods under $20,000. (Higher-priced items have lower surcharges, or premiums.) Clarke's, like many auction houses outside the city, charges a buyer's premium of 15 percent.
 ''I give as much attention to a $200 item as to a $50,000 one,'' Mr. Clarke is fond of saying.
 Paul D. Marinucci, who owns Butterscotch Auction Gallery in Katonah, the only other Westchester auction house, said: ''It's not a thriving business. It's a subculture in that we have a following of people who've been coming for a long time.''
 Mr. LeClair, of Clearing House, said about 75 percent of his weekly bidders are regulars. ''They're in the trade, they're private parties, and they're vendors.''
 And they have more opportunities in auction-rich Connecticut than anywhere else in the region, he said, for one simple reason. ''No auctioneer licenses are required in Connecticut,'' he said. ''You hang out a shingle, you're in business. In New York and New Jersey, you need licenses.''
 Licensed or not, regional auction houses are all feeling the changes wrought by the Internet, which gives the smallest local business the potential for an international presence.
 ''What used to be sold at auctions was appealing locally,'' said Ms. Doyle. ''Now it's the higher-priced object that appeals to a global market.''
 Still, at Clarke's, there is midvalue merchandise to be found.
 ''A $5,000 item in the city is one of many,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''But a $5,000 item here can stand out and do well.''
 To procure those $5,000 items, Mr. Clarke spends most of his time appraising estates, hoping to get them as consignments. The morning of the auction, he had snapped up a good one on Central Park South.
 ''New York is just incredible,'' he said. ''People say the English and Irish have the antiques, but they don't -- they're here.''
 How had he convinced the family on Central Park South that he was the man to auction their furnishings? Mr. Clarke laughed.
 ''The minute they heard the accent, I had it.''
 Like most suburban auction houses, Clarke's is not Christie's or Sotheby's or Doyle. But neither is it a repository of the kind of things you would find at a church bazaar. It's a place where dealers like Timothy Riordan, who owns an antique shop in New Rochelle, occasionally get deals.
 Mr. Riordan examined a bull's-eye mirror before the August auction, and described how he could rebuild the frame, add new gold leaf and resell it. He was describing the work of a ''mover,'' a local dealer who buys low, fixes up and sells high: the mainstay of the used-furniture economy. Most of the bidders at Clarke's fall into that category.
 ''I have a big nut here,'' Mr. Clarke said, noting that his business could not survive if he depended only on private townspeople. ''If I relied on Larchmont, I wouldn't make it. I need the trade.''
 That includes people like Peter Schweller, who deals in old master prints in Manhattan. Mr. Schweller helped work the auction phones, and went for a midnight breakfast at a local diner with the Clarke's crew.
 ''What he looks at,'' Mr. Schweller said of Mr. Clarke, ''is what New York is going to be looking at.''
 Mr. Clarke said, ''I'm a good picker,'' adding that during his youth in Ireland and England he had spent more time in flea markets than in school.
 ''At 3 p.m. in Camden Town they'd bring in barrels of ale,'' he said mistily. ''You can't get a drink in Brimfield at midnight,'' he said, referring to the big Connecticut antique fair, where 10,000 dealers gather twice a year to resell what they buy at places like Clarke's.
 Mr. Clarke prides himself on honesty and says he does not let bidders and consigners inflate prices artificially, even if it would mean bigger one-time sales.
 ''It's a bit of a dishonest business, so it's easy to seem honest,'' he said.
 ''A guy who's spending $100,000 a year with me -- why would I want to hurt him?'' he said.
 Still, auctions breed conflict.
 ''One guy wrote to consumer affairs,'' Mr. Clarke said, ''and said not only did I sell his table cheap, but I was in collusion with the police.'' (There is usually an off-duty officer at the auctions to supervise parking and loading.) Mr. Clarke said that another disappointed consigner lost a suit against him in Mamaroneck Court over the low price he got for his hall mirror.
 It's a ''buyer beware'' business, but that doesn't mean such stories are rare.
 Robert Lifson of Robert Edward Auctions, the sports memorabilia auctioneer in Watchung, spoke of a man who was '' relentless in telling us we'd misdescribed some baseball cards'' that he bought.
 ''We'd called them 'fair to good,' and he thought they were in 'poor' condition,'' Mr. Lifson said. ''For his $1,300 lot, he sent calculations worthy of Einstein. His adjustment, in the end, was $11. I sent him the $11. It was so stupid.''
 Mr. Lifson carries fire and theft insurance; other auctioneers, like Mr. LeClair, carry ''errors and omissions'' insurance that covers the kind of appraisal mistakes that could cost a consigner big money. Usually, of course, it works the other way. 
 ''A lot of people think that their items are more valuable than they are,'' Mr. Clarke said after the Monday auction. ''Those two armoires at the end tonight -- they died. That is what I will hear about.''
 The problem with the armoires? They were ''brown wood'' -- Mr. Clarke's favorite insult, synonymous with shabby chic.
 Ditto Victorian, which Mr. LeClair said is as unprofitable as it is ubiquitous.
 Styles change, Mr. Castner said, ''and brown wood is soft right now, but good stuff is always good stuff.''
 After a couple of hours of good stuff and not-so-good stuff -- and no bargains -- we were less than halfway through the auction.
 ''I'm bored to death,'' Ruben whispered. Then he told me about a chest he had bought at Clarke's for $1,000 and sold for $5,000. He wasn't going anywhere.
 LOT 203, my hanging monkeys, went for $1,200. That price -- more than twice the estimate -- put to rest any lingering self-doubt. Clearly, I had an eye. I started planning where I would put my Buddha lamp.
 Ruben gave me a sidelong glance. ''You can get bargains,'' he said, ''but not in this crowd.''
 Twenty minutes later, Ruben had his weather vane -- for $900, triple the estimated price. The minute it was his, it became a bargain.
 ''That was really worth $2,000,'' he said happily.
 We had been there for almost four hours. In the back, the proprietor of a local deli was packing up his brownies and coffee machine. The bidders who had come for the midcentury lots were long gone. Mr. Clarke was muttering about ''cheap'' bids.
 Entertainment was provided by Jose Olivera, the floor manager. Mr. Olivera wore Belleek vases on his brow like horns. Displaying an Asian dog's-head sculpture, he stuck his hand through the mouth and wagged it like a tongue. The head brought $375 -- $75 over the estimate.
 At 11:20, I eagerly held up my paddle when Mr. Clarke opened bids on my Buddha lamp. $75, $125 ... suddenly somebody on the phone was offering $450. I couldn't believe it. I also couldn't afford it.
 I could probably have gotten the French spice cabinet, but when bidding stopped at $180, I stopped, too, afraid I was the only person who didn't realize it was from Restoration Hardware. (It wasn't.)
 ''It's a sophisticated audience'' Ms. Onyschkewych said the next day. ''Certain non-rare country items don't tend to go too high.''
 A non-rare country item -- that's me.
 I got the name of the thief who had purloined my Buddha lamp and called her. She has an antique shop in Manhattan.
 ''This is not a good time,'' she said, the first time I called her.
 ''I am so busy,'' she said the second time. I begged her to tell me about my lamp. 
 She said this: ''I think it's 19th century, that Buddha. 1870s.''
 I had loved the Buddha when it was a mere 1930s Art Deco novelty. I felt even more strongly that this woman did not deserve it. But that is the difference between real auction people and neophytes. Like breeders, dealers keep their emotions in check and their eyes on the prize, or at least the price. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKE HIM AN OFFER: At an auction at Clarke Auction Gallery, above, in Larchmont, N.Y., the owner of the business, Ron Clarke, left, oversaw the bidding, while staff members displayed the items available. (pg.CT1)
GROWING, GROWING, GONE: Above: An on-site auction of farm equipment, conducted last month in Stillwater, N.J., by Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, based in nearby Branchville. Right: The auction hall stage at Clearing House Auction Galleries in Wethersfield has a revolving platform for displaying items on the block. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (75%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (75%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); POP & ROCK (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



417 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: Up, Up and Away

BYLINE: By SUSAN STEWART

DATELINE: LARCHMONT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
CLARKE AUCTION GALLERY is a cavernous barn of a building that sits at the end of an alley behind Larchmont's main shopping drag. Although Clarke's is less than a block away from pricey furniture and accessories stores, there is nothing fancy about it -- unless you count the Steinway baby grand that sold there last month, or the $10,000 Russian box, or the beautiful Buddha lamp that should be mine. ...
But this is not about my lamp. Not entirely.
 Clarke's is a sleepy place three weeks a month, a repository for the estate furniture, art and collectibles overseen by the owner of the business, Joseph Ronan Clarke, 52, a Dublin-born auctioneer who learned his trade in London and once worked as a lighting technician for the English punk-rock band the Sex Pistols. 
 Mr. Clarke, known as Ron; Diana C. Onyshkewych, the manager; and the rest of the staff members (8 regulars and as many as 19 at auction time) seek out items that they will later appraise, move, photograph and catalog. Then, for a weekend, the place is abuzz as dealers and collectors preview merchandise in preparation for the Monday night auction.
 At 6 p.m., Ruben Krigsman, a retired executive from Harrison, N.Y., was settling in for the long haul. There were 460 lots -- items or groups of items -- for sale. A couple of tables held phones for bidders who would be calling in. There were 506 arranged absentee bids from prospective buyers who couldn't be there but had guaranteed certain prices for certain objects. About 50 live bidders sat on folding chairs, numbered paper paddles in their hands for signaling bids.
 This was an average-size auction for a small auction house, but there are great variations in auctions around the region. Robert Edward Auctions, a sports memorabilia business in Watchung, holds only one a year. Edward is strictly an Internet auction house, whose average lot sells for more than $5,000 and whose monthlong bidding period attracts some 200,000 online bidders. Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, in Branchville, where automobiles and farm equipment as well as antiques are sold, has two auctions a month, which it has begun Webcasting.
 Clarke's is a retro kind of auction house, low key and quirky and about as different from Sotheby's as it is possible to be. 
 ''They're low on the food chain,'' said Leon Castner, who, since selling his own auction house, teaches courses in antique appraisal. ''What they sell is going to be turned over three or four times.''
 In other words, Mr. Castner says, much of the merchandise at Clarke's consists of ''virgin items'' -- estate furnishings that haven't been resold before (or recently) and whose value may be unclear. These goods are at the beginning of the process by which one person's old chair, for instance, eventually becomes another's fabulous find.
 Junk, some might say. Or, just as easily, undiscovered treasure.
 Ruben -- you make friends fast in the fevered atmosphere of an auction -- had his eye on a weather vane, but he was also there to watch the mid-20th-century lots. Mr. Clarke was auctioning a couple of Manhattan collections of furniture from the '50s and '60s. There were shag rugs and white plastic, mirror balls and Danish modern: ''Austin Powers'' meets ''The Jetsons.''
 Ruben loves midcentury.
 ''A couple of pieces I have are considered the holy grail of Scandinavian design,'' he said. He then described ''a giant bird with a clock in its chest.''
 He said his home is ''kind of an exciting house.'' He seemed like a good person to sit next to.
 Ms. Onyshkewych started the bidding with Lot No. 1, an antique Persian carpet. It went for a mere $40. I felt my pulse quicken. I once bought a rug at a yard sale for $40 -- I could do this. But I remembered the words of Nancy Sasso, a Larchmont resident and auction veteran.
 ''I have made mistakes,'' she said, looking at a couple of reproduction cane-backed chairs during a preview period at Clarke's. ''I bought an oversize rug that didn't even fit in my house. I had to fold it over.''
 Clarke's sells a lot of vintage furniture and a lot of reproductions. Mr. Clarke expects his buyers to know the difference. They bear the responsibility for their choices, and consigners -- the people whose property is being auctioned -- know that he rarely puts a reserve, or minimum, price on items.
 ''I have 460 lots tonight,'' he said. ''I will sell all of them. If I have to sell it for a dollar, I'll sell it for a dollar.''
 Mr. Castner said that local, small auctions usually don't use minimums ''because they're a headache.'' 
 ''With no reserve,'' he said, ''you do have a chance of finding that one item that's worth so much.''
 Some auction houses take a middle path. ''I put a reserve only on certain articles, and they have to be expensive,'' said Tom LeClair, who, with his sister, Missy, runs the Clearing House Auction Galleries, which his parents started 47 years ago in Wethersfield, Conn. Like most auctioneers, Mr. LeClair makes his money by charging consigners a commission on the sale, ranging from 5 to 50 percent, depending on the value of the item (the more valuable, the less commission the consigner pays).
 Forgoing reserves is Mr. Clarke's way of ''keeping things moving.'' It also gives hope to the poor. Those of us who can't afford to buy fine antiques at retail know that, at an auction, we might just get lucky.
 ''Let's face it,'' said Katherine Doyle, chief executive of Doyle New York, a Manhattan auction house. ''People are always, always looking for something that wasn't cataloged properly.''
 I knew the feeling. As I studied the lots, my near-total ignorance of antiques did not prevent me from picking out certain items whose value, I was sure, nobody else had discerned: a pair of white porcelain monkeys hanging from the ceiling, a French spice cabinet, a mirrored Louis XV reproduction coffee table, and the Buddha lamp.
 I was particularly smitten by the Buddha, serenely draped in an azure robe. But it was Lot No. 375; we had miles to go.
 Ruben and I sat through Austrian boxes and Italian wall mirrors, bronze dog andirons ($850) and sterling cocktail shakers. There was a thrill when a Russian silver-and-enamel box estimated to sell for $600 to $900 brought $10,000. Mr. Clarke said, ''Going, going, gone'' for the first time (his usual phrase was ''Last chance, fair warning''). Everybody applauded.
 ''They think it's Faberge,'' Ruben whispered, with a shrug. 
 Clarke's has sold some pricey items -- its Nov. 5 art auction featured a John Wilde painting that sold for $48,000. The success of eBay and television programs like ''Antiques Roadshow'' has increasingly pushed Clarke's and other midlevel auction houses toward the fine art market, or at least toward the expensive and away from the cheap.
 One factor in this trend is the practice of charging buyers' premiums. The three big Manhattan auction houses -- Sotheby's, Christie's and Doyle -- announced recently that they would increase their surcharge to winning bidders to 25 percent an item, from 20 percent, for goods under $20,000. (Higher-priced items have lower surcharges, or premiums.) Clarke's, like many auction houses outside the city, charges a buyer's premium of 15 percent.
 ''I give as much attention to a $200 item as to a $50,000 one,'' Mr. Clarke is fond of saying.
 Paul D. Marinucci, who owns Butterscotch Auction Gallery in Katonah, the only other Westchester auction house, said: ''It's not a thriving business. It's a subculture in that we have a following of people who've been coming for a long time.''
 Mr. LeClair, of Clearing House, said about 75 percent of his weekly bidders are regulars. ''They're in the trade, they're private parties, and they're vendors.''
 And they have more opportunities in auction-rich Connecticut than anywhere else in the region, he said, for one simple reason. ''No auctioneer licenses are required in Connecticut,'' he said. ''You hang out a shingle, you're in business. In New York and New Jersey, you need licenses.''
 Licensed or not, regional auction houses are all feeling the changes wrought by the Internet, which gives the smallest local business the potential for an international presence.
 ''What used to be sold at auctions was appealing locally,'' said Ms. Doyle. ''Now it's the higher-priced object that appeals to a global market.''
 Still, at Clarke's, there is midvalue merchandise to be found.
 ''A $5,000 item in the city is one of many,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''But a $5,000 item here can stand out and do well.''
 To procure those $5,000 items, Mr. Clarke spends most of his time appraising estates, hoping to get them as consignments. The morning of the auction, he had snapped up a good one on Central Park South.
 ''New York is just incredible,'' he said. ''People say the English and Irish have the antiques, but they don't -- they're here.''
 How had he convinced the family on Central Park South that he was the man to auction their furnishings? Mr. Clarke laughed.
 ''The minute they heard the accent, I had it.''
 Like most suburban auction houses, Clarke's is not Christie's or Sotheby's or Doyle. But neither is it a repository of the kind of things you would find at a church bazaar. It's a place where dealers like Timothy Riordan, who owns an antique shop in New Rochelle, occasionally get deals.
 Mr. Riordan examined a bull's-eye mirror before the August auction, and described how he could rebuild the frame, add new gold leaf and resell it. He was describing the work of a ''mover,'' a local dealer who buys low, fixes up and sells high: the mainstay of the used-furniture economy. Most of the bidders at Clarke's fall into that category.
 ''I have a big nut here,'' Mr. Clarke said, noting that his business could not survive if he depended only on private townspeople. ''If I relied on Larchmont, I wouldn't make it. I need the trade.''
 That includes people like Peter Schweller, who deals in old master prints in Manhattan. Mr. Schweller helped work the auction phones, and went for a midnight breakfast at a local diner with the Clarke's crew.
 ''What he looks at,'' Mr. Schweller said of Mr. Clarke, ''is what New York is going to be looking at.''
 Mr. Clarke said, ''I'm a good picker,'' adding that during his youth in Ireland and England he had spent more time in flea markets than in school.
 ''At 3 p.m. in Camden Town they'd bring in barrels of ale,'' he said mistily. ''You can't get a drink in Brimfield at midnight,'' he said, referring to the big Connecticut antique fair, where 10,000 dealers gather twice a year to resell what they buy at places like Clarke's.
 Mr. Clarke prides himself on honesty and says he does not let bidders and consigners inflate prices artificially, even if it would mean bigger one-time sales.
 ''It's a bit of a dishonest business, so it's easy to seem honest,'' he said.
 ''A guy who's spending $100,000 a year with me -- why would I want to hurt him?'' he said.
 Still, auctions breed conflict.
 ''One guy wrote to consumer affairs,'' Mr. Clarke said, ''and said not only did I sell his table cheap, but I was in collusion with the police.'' (There is usually an off-duty officer at the auctions to supervise parking and loading.) Mr. Clarke said that another disappointed consigner lost a suit against him in Mamaroneck Court over the low price he got for his hall mirror.
 It's a ''buyer beware'' business, but that doesn't mean such stories are rare.
 Robert Lifson of Robert Edward Auctions, the sports memorabilia auctioneer in Watchung, spoke of a man who was '' relentless in telling us we'd misdescribed some baseball cards'' that he bought.
 ''We'd called them 'fair to good,' and he thought they were in 'poor' condition,'' Mr. Lifson said. ''For his $1,300 lot, he sent calculations worthy of Einstein. His adjustment, in the end, was $11. I sent him the $11. It was so stupid.''
 Mr. Lifson carries fire and theft insurance; other auctioneers, like Mr. LeClair, carry ''errors and omissions'' insurance that covers the kind of appraisal mistakes that could cost a consigner big money. Usually, of course, it works the other way. 
 ''A lot of people think that their items are more valuable than they are,'' Mr. Clarke said after the Monday auction. ''Those two armoires at the end tonight -- they died. That is what I will hear about.''
 The problem with the armoires? They were ''brown wood'' -- Mr. Clarke's favorite insult, synonymous with shabby chic.
 Ditto Victorian, which Mr. LeClair said is as unprofitable as it is ubiquitous.
 Styles change, Mr. Castner said, ''and brown wood is soft right now, but good stuff is always good stuff.''
 After a couple of hours of good stuff and not-so-good stuff -- and no bargains -- we were less than halfway through the auction.
 ''I'm bored to death,'' Ruben whispered. Then he told me about a chest he had bought at Clarke's for $1,000 and sold for $5,000. He wasn't going anywhere.
 LOT 203, my hanging monkeys, went for $1,200. That price -- more than twice the estimate -- put to rest any lingering self-doubt. Clearly, I had an eye. I started planning where I would put my Buddha lamp.
 Ruben gave me a sidelong glance. ''You can get bargains,'' he said, ''but not in this crowd.''
 Twenty minutes later, Ruben had his weather vane -- for $900, triple the estimated price. The minute it was his, it became a bargain.
 ''That was really worth $2,000,'' he said happily.
 We had been there for almost four hours. In the back, the proprietor of a local deli was packing up his brownies and coffee machine. The bidders who had come for the midcentury lots were long gone. Mr. Clarke was muttering about ''cheap'' bids.
 Entertainment was provided by Jose Olivera, the floor manager. Mr. Olivera wore Belleek vases on his brow like horns. Displaying an Asian dog's-head sculpture, he stuck his hand through the mouth and wagged it like a tongue. The head brought $375 -- $75 over the estimate.
 At 11:20, I eagerly held up my paddle when Mr. Clarke opened bids on my Buddha lamp. $75, $125 ... suddenly somebody on the phone was offering $450. I couldn't believe it. I also couldn't afford it.
 I could probably have gotten the French spice cabinet, but when bidding stopped at $180, I stopped, too, afraid I was the only person who didn't realize it was from Restoration Hardware. (It wasn't.)
 ''It's a sophisticated audience'' Ms. Onyschkewych said the next day. ''Certain non-rare country items don't tend to go too high.''
 A non-rare country item -- that's me.
 I got the name of the thief who had purloined my Buddha lamp and called her. She has an antique shop in Manhattan.
 ''This is not a good time,'' she said, the first time I called her.
 ''I am so busy,'' she said the second time. I begged her to tell me about my lamp. 
 She said this: ''I think it's 19th century, that Buddha. 1870s.''
 I had loved the Buddha when it was a mere 1930s Art Deco novelty. I felt even more strongly that this woman did not deserve it. But that is the difference between real auction people and neophytes. Like breeders, dealers keep their emotions in check and their eyes on the prize, or at least the price. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKE HIM AN OFFER: At an auction at Clarke Auction Gallery, above, in Larchmont, N.Y., the owner of the business, Ron Clarke, left, oversaw the bidding, while staff members displayed the items available. (pg.NJ1)
GROWING, GROWING, GONE: Above: An on-site auction of farm equipment, above, conducted last month in Stillwater by Castner's Auction and Appraisal Service, based in nearby Branchville. Right: The auction hall stage at Clearing House Auction Galleries in Wethersfield, Conn., has a revolving platform for displaying items on the block. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (75%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (75%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); POP & ROCK (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



418 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Financials, Once a Balm, Now Hamper the Market

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
As the air came out of the technology and telecommunications bubble this decade, the stock market found a new champion in the financial sector.
 Now, as problems in the credit markets are cutting into profits at banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies, that growth engine is looking more like a millstone. Financial stocks are down 17.6 percent for the year, and many market specialists expect that they will remain under pressure in the coming year, making it harder for the broader market to regain its footing.
 At the end of last year, financial stocks made up more than 22 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, up from less than 13 percent in March 2000, when the market hit its technology-era peak. As of Friday, financial stocks had dropped to 18.4 percent of the index. 
 That drop is a large part of the reason the stock market is up 2.9 percent for the year after being up more than 10 percent in early October. Financial shares have been particularly hard hit in the last few weeks as banks and brokerage firms have announced large write-downs related to mortgage securities. Most bank shares continued their decline on Friday in another volatile day for the markets.
 The financial sector is one of two groups in the S.& P. 500 that is down for the year; the other, consumer discretionary, is down 11.5 percent, but it accounts for 8.8 percent of the index. 
 The era of low interest rates ushered in by a series of Federal Reserve rate cuts in the aftermath of the technology bust and the terrorist attacks of 2001 created ideal conditions for financial companies to prosper. The easy availability of money and new financial products intended to disperse risk led to a boom in mortgage lending and private equity acquisitions. 
 ''The macroeconomic conditions were very conducive to them posting very high profit margins,'' Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer for Bessemer Trust, said. ''And now investors realize those margins won't last.''
 In the third quarter, the operating profits of financial companies fell more than 33 percent, a drastic reversal from a 13 percent growth rate in the second quarter, according to an analysis by Howard Silverblatt, Standard & Poor's chief index analyst. The sector, which has been accounting for more than a fourth of profits in the S.& P., helped drag overall profit down for the index by 8.5 percent. (Excluding financial services, operating earnings were up 1.6 percent in the quarter.)
 Tim Scholefield, the head of equities at Baring Asset Management, said his firm had lowered the allocation of investments to American stocks because of the continued uncertainty surrounding the financial sector. He, like many others, expects more write-downs related to complex debt securities like collateralized debt obligations. Financial institutions will also struggle to replace the billions they had earned by structuring acquisitions for private equity firms and by trading mortgage bonds.
 ''There is a risk of more to come,'' said Mr. Scholefield, who prefers investing in developing economies because he thinks they have better growth prospects and lower debt levels.
 Still, few investors and analysts expect financial stocks to suffer a collapse akin to the crash in technology and telecommunications stocks, which went from a commanding 42 percent weighting in the S.& P. 500 to 20 percent today. They note that, for better or for worse, financial services make up a much bigger share of the economy today than they did 10 or 20 years ago, when manufacturing, materials and energy were more dominant.
 ''I don't think this is a bubble headed for a crash,'' said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, a company that creates stock indexes based on a company's share of the economy. ''I do think the financial services are an enormous part of the economy and will remain so.''
 But Mr. Arnott also says the sector could continue to be a drain on the market. He expects the earnings of financial companies to bottom out in 2009 or 2010, an outlook much grimmer than the consensus expectation on Wall Street that the bottom will come next year.
 Credit losses from the mortgage market alone could total as much as $400 billion, according to Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs. In a report last week, he noted that if half those losses were borne by financial institutions, lending could be reduced going forward by about $2 trillion, or about 7 percent of all nonfinancial debt in the American economy. That would not only hurt the financial sector; it could lead to a recession.
 Mr. Hatzius cautions that the estimates assume all else is equal across the economy. Some losses in the financial sector could well be made up by growth in other areas like exports, which have been rising rapidly as the dollar has fallen against the euro and other currencies. Profits remain strong at technology and industrial companies, which benefit the most from the export boom.
 James T. Swanson, chief investment strategist at the Boston mutual fund company MFS Investment Management, said the American stock market remained attractive because nonfinancial corporate America is in fine health, with low levels of debt and strong profits, particularly in their foreign operations. ''We are slowing down for sure in the U.S., but outside of the U.S., profits are continuing to grow,'' he said.
 For the stock market, the crucial question is whether that will be enough to overcome the drag from the financial sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TERRORISM (64%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (62%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: BARING ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



419 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Moves to End Death Penalty

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
The eight men confined to the Capital Sentences Unit of 3 Wing in the New Jersey State Prison, ranging in age from 77 to 30, have a better chance of dying of old age than they do of lethal injection on an executioner's gurney.
 For one thing, the state has not executed anyone since 1963. 
 But in a move that is being closely watched by both sides of the capital punishment debate, New Jersey is on track to become the first state to repeal the death penalty since the United States Supreme Court allowed executions to resume in 1976.
 A bill that would abolish New Jersey's death penalty was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee this spring and is now on a fast track to be considered by both houses within weeks. The Senate president, Richard J. Codey, who supports the measure, said this month that he planned to bring the bill to a vote before the full chamber by the end of the year. 
 In the Assembly, the speaker, Joseph J. Roberts Jr., has set a committee hearing on Dec. 6 for a nearly identical bill, and he said he expected a floor vote the following week. 
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who is opposed to the death penalty, has said that he will sign the measure into law if it reaches his desk. 
 There has been a growing call for states to take another look at their death penalty laws in recent years as more inmates on death row are exonerated. In addition, questions about whether executions amount to cruel and unusual punishment have prompted several states, including New Jersey, to review their methods of capital punishment. 
 But supporters of the death penalty have as ammunition a number of recent academic studies backing one of their principal arguments: that executions do have a deterrent effect on the murder rate.
 For their part, opponents of the death penalty hope that that if the bill becomes law, it could spark further re-examination of capital sentence laws across the country.
 ''It would be a historic measure,'' said Richard C. Dieter, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a research group opposed to capital punishment. ''I think it is part of this bigger picture where the death penalty is on the defensive.''
 In recent rulings, the United States Supreme Court has narrowed the use of capital punishment, declaring it unconstitutional to execute juvenile killers or the mentally retarded. And late last month, the court effectively halted executions nationwide until it decides whether the drug cocktail most commonly used in lethal injections is constitutional. 
 What makes the New Jersey initiative unusual, groups opposed to the death penalty say, is that a state legislature rather than a court or a governor would be declaring an end to capital punishment. In other states where executions have recently been halted, the decision was based on a court ruling, as in New York, or through a moratorium imposed by the governor, as in Illinois and Maryland. 
 ''When you have a legislature taking a stand, it's not three or four people on a bench,'' said Shari Silberstein, a director at Equal Justice USA, a group based in Maryland that advocates abolishing the death penalty. ''It's more reflective of the popular will.'' 
 Ms. Silberstein added: ''A state that deliberately decided to have a death penalty would be deliberately deciding not to have a death penalty. And I think that means something.''
 Other states, like Nebraska and New Mexico, have considered bills that would abolish the death penalty, but those efforts have fallen short. 
 While opponents of the death penalty consider New Jersey their best hope for a legislative victory, approval is not assured. Although Democrats control both houses in the Legislature, not all of them are likely to vote along party lines. Democratic leaders in both houses agree that passage in the Assembly is highly likely, but they say getting the measure through the Senate could be more difficult. 
 Mr. Codey, who has thrown his full support behind the bill, said he was not declaring victory yet. ''I think it'll be close,'' he said.
 Complicating the task for Mr. Codey, proponents of the death penalty do not plan to sit by idly. 
 State Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican and the Senate's leading social conservative, said he planned to start lobbying members to support a bill that would retain the death penalty but narrow the circumstances in which it would apply. That measure could attract votes from legislators who generally oppose capital punishment but do not want to appear soft on crime.
 Robert Blecker, a professor of criminal law at New York Law School who has pushed for keeping New Jersey's death penalty in place, said that fast-tracking the legislation does not leave time for the consideration that an issue as significant as capital punishment deserves. ''This is being done without deliberation, without debate,'' he said of the bill. ''It's a rush to judgment.''
 Professor Blecker contended that Democrats were trying to speed the bill through the Legislature while ignoring the argument that society can benefit from the death penalty.
 ''There is something extraordinarily significant and symbolic about the process of condemning somebody to death, to say to someone, 'You do not deserve to live,' '' he said. ''Even if it is not carried out, it still is a signal.'' 
 A handful of recent studies that looked at murder rates around the country have concluded that the death penalty does prevent murders: from 3 to 18 for every inmate put to death. The effect is greatest in states, like Texas, that execute criminals relatively quickly and frequently, some studies say. 
 The studies have been criticized on a number of grounds, with some arguing that the effects of executions, if any, cannot be disentangled from larger social factors like the overall crime rate, police budgets and the economy. A 13-member commission in New Jersey that studied the death penalty reviewed some of the studies and found them ''conflicting and inconclusive.''
 The death penalty in the state has been effectively unenforceable since the state's procedures for lethal injection expired in September 2005, and the Department of Corrections, which is charged with rewriting them, has no plans to do so.
 After an extensive review, the state commission recommended in January that the death penalty be abolished and replaced with life in prison without the possibility of parole. The commission determined that capital punishment in New Jersey was a waste of state resources that served no legitimate punitive purpose. According to the most recent figures from the Corrections Department, the state spent $84,474 in 2006 housing each inmate on death row, compared with $32,400 for a prisoner in the general population.
 In addition, those costs do not take into account what the state spends to defend capital cases through the public defender's office, or to hear the numerous appeals that are usually filed after a death sentence is rendered.
 Mr. Codey, who sponsored the bill that reinstated the death penalty in New Jersey in 1982, said that ending capital punishment here had nothing to do with shaping the national debate or sending a message to other states. 
 ''People's opinions since 1981 have changed,'' he said. ''And I can't intelligently make the argument that it's going to deter anybody because they know they're never going to get executed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); MURDER (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CRIME RATES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



420 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: A Deeply Green City Confronts Its Energy Needs and Nuclear Worries

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: FORT COLLINS, Colo. 

 BODY:
This city takes pride in being green, from its official motto, ''Where renewal is a way of life,'' to its Climate Wise energy program, which helps local businesses reduce the carbon emissions that scientists say can contribute to global warming.
 But now two proposed energy projects are exposing the hard place that communities like this across the country are likely to confront in years to come as the tangled nuances of thinking globally come back to bite.
 Both projects would do exactly what the city proclaims it wants, helping to produce zero-carbon energy. But one involves crowd-pleasing, feel-good solar power, and the other is a uranium mine, which has a base of support here about as big as a pinkie. Environmentalism and local politics have collided with a broader ethical and moral debate about the good of the planet, and whether some places could or should be called upon to sacrifice for their high-minded goals. 
 The solar project, called AVA Solar, plans to use a new manufacturing process developed at Colorado State University here to make panels for electricity generation, and will use cadmium -- a hazardous metal linked to cancer -- as part of the industrial process. 
 The company that would run the proposed uranium mine, Powertech Uranium, would like to drill down through part of an aquifer about 10 miles northeast of town using what the company says would be state-of-the-art drilling technology to extract fuel for nuclear-generated electricity.
 Some politicians who agree on almost nothing else have united in expressing concerns about the mine -- especially its possible effect on water quality -- including Representative Marilyn Musgrave, a Republican who represents the area, and Senator Ken Salazar, a Democrat. 
 Local environmentalists like Dan Bihn, an electrical engineer and environmental consultant who sits on the Fort Collins Electric Utilities Board, are caught in the middle.
 ''I think nuclear needs to be on the table, and we need to work through this thing and we can't just emotionally react to it,'' Mr. Bihn said in an interview at Mugs Coffee Lounge, an environmentally correct cafe near the university, where the take-out forks are biodegradable. Asked about his own emotional reaction to the mining plan, Mr. Bihn paused. ''Deep down inside, my emotional reaction is that we should never do this,'' he said.
 The central thorn in Fort Collins's dilemma, some land-use and energy experts say, is that local and global simply do not mean what they once did.
 ''Politically it's going to become more complicated,'' said Bill Klein, the director of research at the American Planning Association, a nonprofit group that works with local governments. ''There's always been this weighing of our individual desires against the greater good, but now we're becoming much more attuned to a global responsibility,'' Mr. Klein said. ''We've got to question some of the knee-jerk responses that we've had in the past.''
 What green energy even means these days is probably the next question to ask.
 Gov. Bill Ritter Jr., a Democrat who was elected last year and who has made what he calls ''the new energy economy'' a centerpiece of his administration, does not include uranium mining in the green portfolio, said Tom Plant, the director of the governor's energy office. Mine regulators still handle questions about uranium, Mr. Plant said. 
 Ron Cattany, the director of the division of reclamation, mining and safety at the Colorado Department of Natural Resources, said that Powertech had not yet filed a formal application, but that the hurdles to opening any kind of new mine in Colorado, regardless of the location, were high. 
 There is no doubt that new money is chasing new energy. Company officials at Powertech, which is based in Denver, said they had spent more than $2 million so far buying land, or the option to buy, in the area where their proposed drilling would take place. They bought the minerals beneath the surface last year for an undisclosed price, and under what is called ''split estate,'' that gives them title to the uranium, no matter who owns the land on top of it. 
 Test drilling in the 1970s confirmed the existence of about 9.7 million pounds of uranium in deposits under 5,700 acres, according to the company's Web site. At the current market price, which has risen about 30 percent in the last year, the ore would be worth about $860 million. 
 Mr. Cattany said that 10 other uranium projects -- all involving the possible reopening of mothballed mines that use traditional open cut or underground methods, and all on the state's less-populated western side -- had come into a formal review or staff consideration over the last year as uranium prices shot up.
 Powertech has proposed using what is called in-situ mining -- chemicals are injected into the ground, releasing the uranium, which is then pumped to the surface. The process was developed in the 1950s and 1960s, but has never been used in Colorado for commercial mining, state officials said. 
 At least $250 million, meanwhile, has flowed into solar, wind and ethanol projects in Colorado over the last few years as well, according to state figures, and officials at the new solar company said they were seeing their share of the tide.
 ''We're not hurting,'' said Russ Kanjorski, the director of strategic planning for AVA Solar. Mr. Kanjorski declined to say how much the start-up costs might be for a factory, but said the company intended to build up to a production level of 4.5 million solar panels a year beginning in 2009, employing up to 500 people, mostly engineers. ''Funding is not an issue for us,'' he said.
 Mr. Kanjorski said that the environmental protections in using cadmium would be tight and that he expected the state would take a very close look at the water discharge and monitoring practices in particular, which he said were still being developed.
 Jeff Lebesch, another member of the city's utility board, said he worried that the popularity of some energy projects could make for bad public policy.
 ''I think there is a risk that the popular ones have some things overlooked,'' said Mr. Lebesch, who is also a co-founder and president of New Belgium Brewing, a 16-year-old company that has been a leader in pushing energy conservation and renewable sources like wind power. As for nuclear power, Mr. Lebesch said he was not opposed, if the energy was really needed.
 ''The big issue of power plants is carbon emissions,'' he said, ''and nuclear plants don't have them.'' The fuel is the bigger issue for him. Extracting uranium, processing it and disposing of it, he said, all have long-term, unresolved questions. 
 A spokesman for Powertech, Lane Douglas, said the company's proposal should be judged on facts, not beliefs or prejudices or what he conceded was a spotty environmental record for uranium mining.
 ''The science will either be good science or it won't,'' said Mr. Douglas, the company's Colorado land and project manager. ''We're just saying give us a fair hearing.''
 Ariana Friedlander, an advertising sales representative, who was having lunch at Mugs on a recent afternoon, said she was trying to be consistent. Ms. Friedlander said she opposed the mine but thought the solar factory should be closely regulated, too.
 ''I don't know of anyone who's really for it,'' she said of the mine. ''But we shouldn't be giving the other guys a pass because they're sexy right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A uranium mine proposed for the plains 10 miles outside Fort Collins, Colo., top, would drill down through part of an aquifer. Above center, scientists tested the chemistry of the groundwater at the planned mine site. Above left, W. S. Sampath, a professor at Colorado State University, inspecting a solar panel prototype. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map of Fort Collins, Colo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); POLITICS (88%); URANIUM MINING (88%); RESTAURANTS (85%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); MINES & MINING (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); ETHICS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (66%); WATER QUALITY (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: MARILYN N MUSGRAVE (53%); KEN SALAZAR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



421 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Italians Tune In To Real-Life 'Sopranos'

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
It's said that the Mafia has a hold on Italy. Of late that has been especially true on Thursday nights, when millions of television viewers have tuned in to watch the biographical rise-and-fall saga of Salvatore (Toto) Riina, the murderous mob boss who once commanded organized crime in Sicily. 
 With only two episodes remaining, the six-part ''Il Capo dei Capi'' (''The Boss of Bosses'') has drawn a 28 percent share of the viewing audience, about seven million people, according to Mediaset, the broadcaster showing it. That is well above the network's average share of 23 percent, said Alessandro Salem, general manager for content.
 Advertisers have not shied away from the subject matter. Barilla, along with Bayer, Colgate, Fiat and Yves Saint Laurent ''chose the series specifically, and episode after episode, requests for ad time have grown well beyond what is available,'' said Luigi Colombo, director general for marketing at Publitalia, the ad agency of Mediaset.
 One fan, it seems, is Mr. Riina himself, who has reportedly watched his fictionalized life from the high-security prison in Milan that he has called home off and on since he was captured in 1993.
 The series has been popular in Mafia-influenced territories in Italy, where pirated DVD copies hit the streets the day after the shows are broadcast, said Attilio Bolzoni, a reporter for La Repubblica in Rome. He and Giuseppe D'Avanzo wrote the well-documented biography of Mr. Riina that spawned the series.
 ''Italy has always been fascinated by the Mafia, by its personification of evil,'' Mr. Bolzoni said in a phone interview.
 Another possible explanation for the popularity of ''Il Capo dei Capi'' may be that it goes beyond mere storytelling and puts Italy in front of an unflattering -- if engrossing -- mirror of itself. It suggests that if Mr. Riina became the most formidable and feared mobster in Italian history, it was thanks to the collusion of political and economic forces at various levels of Italian society.
 ''It's not fiction -- it's a real story that tells 50 years of Italian history, and it names names,'' said Pietro Valsecchi, who produced the series. ''It tells us just what sort of country we have been living in, it shows us the complicity of the state, it puts the Mafia in our face.''
 Interestingly, ''The Sopranos,'' the HBO drama about Italian-American bad guys, never caught on here. Interest in ''Il Capo dei Capi'' has been kept high by real-life events, like the arrest this month of Salvatore Lo Piccolo, considered the current top mobster.
 Fictionalizing reality may be the best way to educate Italy's distracted audience, Mr. Valsecchi said. ''Italians don't read newspapers -- they barely glance at headlines. But here they're getting the full story, with all its implications.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Il Capo dei Capi (TV Program)>; Il Capo dei Capi (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



422 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: '... And the Pursuit of Happiness'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''All They Are Saying Is Give Happiness a Chance,'' by Eduardo Porter (Editorial Observer, Nov. 12), made me smile. Despite the fact that I have few of the trappings of success, I am happy. 
 While I have a human desire for financial gain, fulfilling romantic relationships and international accolades for my brilliance, I do not have (or reasonably expect) any of those things. And yet, I am happy. I struggle to pay my bills, wonder if those are old-lady wrinkles sneaking onto my face and gesture obscenely at other drivers when they cut me off. Still, I am happy. 
 What I can offer to Mr. Porter is support for his theory that time is worth more than money. I have a job and a life that gives me the time and space to read, play with my dog, dine with my friends, stare into space and generally get plenty of happiness-sustaining mental candy. 
 I'm glad that the world is full of people who need to do and to be and to know -- relentlessly and aggressively. They create the noise and pressure that typify modern life, and they give me something to look at when the leaves stop spinning in the wind.
 Maureen Devlin Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Bravo for broaching the seemingly fluffy topic of happiness from a very logical perspective. One policy approach to enhancing the happiness of our citizens might aim at children. Happy children start off on the right foot and can end up as happy adults. 
 With increasing emphasis on standardized testing in schools, teachers have an incentive to focus more on quantitative assessment than qualitative ones, which encompass happiness and the ability to work with others. Creative teaching strategies through games and interaction can foster happiness while meeting state-mandated requirements. 
 In my work with children who live in rough, unstable home situations and struggle academically, I am shocked to see their resilience through troubles that I see as profound causes of unhappiness. Children are beginning to explore their world, so we have tabula rasa on which to emphasize happiness as a value.
 Laurel E. Murphy Baltimore, Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Government officials can perform infinite studies defining every aspect of what makes Americans happy, but they could never define what makes me happy better than I can. This is why the framers of the Declaration of Independence entitled me to the right to pursue happiness, not to happiness itself. 
 It is not the government's duty to provide me with happiness. Forcing me into clinically proven happy habits through taxes would only make me thoroughly unhappy. 
 Ari Gerstman Washington, Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Economists want policy makers to legislate our happiness just as they address poverty. If our chances of success at creating happiness can be predicted by our success at reducing poverty, there will be some truly sad times ahead.
 The opportunity for happiness should be a byproduct of sound policy that ensures justice and freedom for all. People whose goal is to try to make other people happy usually make themselves and everyone else miserable. 
 Peter Vanacore Westborough, Mass., Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Although I am a left-leaning Democrat who believes that government should take a more active role in mandating liberal vacation, child care and family leave policies, I don't think it should start trying to quantify happiness. 
 Instead, give hard-working Americans more time away from the office without fear of losing their jobs and then see what happens. Happiness is what happens when the government isn't looking.
 Michael Tucker Bath, Me., Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 It is hardly news that money can't but happiness. The Stoics told us that over 2,000 years ago: don't seek more, desire less. 
 But Eduardo Porter's alternative paths to happiness -- more social interaction and leisure -- seem a bit bland. Happiness is a beer at the ballgame with buddies?
 Surely the higher, more intense happiness doesn't come from chilling out, no matter what the French say. Is it not found more in passionate activity? I find it in teaching and writing. My teenager finds it in playing classical guitar. Even leisure time seems richest when used for intense activities.
 I can't believe that lying on the beach is bliss, even though I lived two blocks from the ocean for decades. However, the invention and spread of the cellphone might prove me wrong as people truly kill more time in jibber-jabber.
 David Eggenschwiler Los Angeles, Nov. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 It seems that the more choices people have, the less happy they are. Happy people accept what they cannot change and make the best of it. 
 Happiness need not be as elusive as some people claim it to be. But it remains beyond the grasp of so many because they are unwilling to see that happiness is a state of mind over matter.
 Jeffrey T. Guterman Miami Shores, Fla., Nov. 13, 2007 The writer is a mental health counselor.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAEEUN YOO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



423 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Event Is Clouded By Criticism Of the Dollar

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
A rare meeting of the heads of state of the OPEC countries ended here today on a political note, with two leaders -- President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran -- blaming the weakness of the United States dollar for high oil prices.
 Despite the best efforts of the host country, Saudi Arabia, to steer the meeting away from politics and promote OPEC's environmental concerns, the leaders of Venezuela and Iran let loose some show-stealing statements.
 ''The dollar is in free fall, everyone should be worried about it,'' Mr. Chavez told reporters here. ''The fall of the dollar is not the fall of the dollar -- it's the fall of the American empire.'' 
 During a news conference after the meeting, Mr. Ahmadinejad added: ''The U.S. dollar has no economic value.'' 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad said that oil, which was hovering last week at close to $100 a barrel, was being sold currently for a ''paltry sum.'' And Mr. Chavez predicted that prices would rise to $200 a barrel if the United States were ''crazy enough'' to strike at Iran, or even at his own country.
 Normally, meetings of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are tepid affairs where ministers leave politics at the door and talk about oil inventory and supply and demand. This unusual meeting, held amid the pomp and glitter of the Saudi royal court, had been planned since last December but happened to fall at a time of renewed concern over record oil prices and the shrinking value of the dollar.
 At the summit's opening ceremony on Saturday, Mr. Chavez sought to bring OPEC back to its militant and revolutionary roots.
 ''OPEC should set itself up as an active political agent,'' Mr. Chavez said, addressing about 1,000 guests in a conference center by the royal quarters. 
 While Mr. Chavez's 23-minute statement was brief by his own standards, it drew a gentle rebuke from King Abdullah, the Saudi monarch, who chided him for talking longer than the time allotted by royal protocol. He also turned down Mr. Chavez's plea, saying: ''Those who want OPEC to take advantage of its position are forgetting that OPEC has always acted moderately and wisely.''
 It is only the third time in OPEC's 47-year history that such a high-level meeting has taken place. The first was in Algiers, in 1975, at the height of OPEC's nationalist period; the second was in 2000, when the oil cartel met in Venezuela to devise a strategy to increase prices after they had collapsed to about $10 a barrel in the late 1990s.
 This meeting, which lasted less than 24 hours, was supposed to focus on long-term issues like the security of supplies and environmental policy. The Saudis in particular sought to reassure the world that OPEC was a reliable oil supplier.
 ''OPEC has made a point, from its establishment, to work for the stability of the oil markets,'' said the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Faisal, at a news conference after the close of the summit on Sunday. ''Oil should be a tool of construction and development, not one of dispute.''
 Saudi Arabia also wanted to highlight a new emphasis on protecting the environment by announcing the establishment of a $750 million fund to reduce carbon emissions. The kingdom will contribute $300 million for research into technology that captures carbon spewed by power plants or refineries and stores it underground. In addition, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar will provide $150 million each.
 Oil producers see climate policies that focus on oil consumption as an unfair way to curb the use of fossil fuels worldwide. By financing research into carbon emissions, Saudi Arabia says it is seeking ways to extend the use of petroleum resources at a time when global warming could lead to changes in consumer behavior in Western countries.
 ''We want to continue using fossil fuels while protecting the environment,'' said Mohammad al-Sabban, a senior Saudi government adviser on climate change. ''What we are worried about is for industrialized countries to use climate policy as a pretext to discriminate against oil.'' 
 Other ministers also expressed the more moderate views that typically emerge from an OPEC meeting. Despite Mr. Ahmadinejad's statement about oil prices being paltry, officials from several other countries -- including the United Arab Emirates, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia -- said that prices were too high. 
 ''We are going down uncharted territory, and everyone should be cautious,'' said Odein Ajumogobia, Nigeria's oil minister, referring to the current prices. 
 The weakness of the dollar proved to be even more controversial here and created frictions among members of the group. Iran -- with the backing of Venezuela and OPEC's newest member, Ecuador -- worked hard to persuade the group that it should mention the falling dollar in the summit's final declaration. 
 But Saudi Arabia rejected Iran's proposal, saying that such a move might provoke a ''collapse'' of the dollar. During a closed session on Friday that was mistakenly broadcast on an internal television circuit, Prince Saud al-Faisal said the issue was too delicate to be included in a statement. 
 In the end, the Saudis were forced to yield a little. The final statement, while making no mention of the dollar, said OPEC would ''study ways and means of enhancing financial cooperation among OPEC member countries.'' 
 According to Iran, OPEC will also look for ways to establish a currency basket to offset the declining value of the dollar. But Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf countries are opposed to this old idea, and few analysts believe it has any chance of succeeding. 
 It is too early to say whether the views expressed by Mr. Chavez and Mr. Ahmadinejad signaled a rift in the exceptional consensus that has sustained OPEC's success in recent years, or whether they were merely an example of conference theatrics by countries at odds with the American government. In the end, it fell to Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, and the main architect of OPEC's focus on business fundamentals in recent years, to underline the conference's main message.
 ''Everyone knows that OPEC has renounced the principle of controlling oil prices since the 1980s,'' Mr. Naimi said at a news conference on Sunday. ''Since then, the price has been determined by the market. The fluctuations you are witnessing today have nothing to do with OPEC actions.''
 The meeting was held in a conference center that was a gaudy mix of the palace at Versailles and Greek Revival style, with some rococo touches. It also displayed the whole range of Saudi extravagance: blue marble floors, gold-plated fixtures, and dozens of crystal chandeliers, some bigger than trucks.
 Vera de Ladoucette, an energy analyst with the Cambridge Energy Research Associates who was here to observe the summit, said: ''This shows a new dimension to OPEC, which is the environment. This could be a defensive stance to improve their image. But also, a way of acting against anything that might reduce demand for oil.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CARTELS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (57%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



424 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-15
 U.S. Hopes to Arm Tribes In Pakistan in Qaeda Fight
 A new and classified American military proposal outlines an intensified effort to enlist tribal leaders in the frontier areas of Pakistan in the fight against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, as part of a broader effort to bolster Pakistani forces against an expanding militancy, officials said. A1 
 Dams Uproot Millions in China
 The Three Gorges Dam, which has spawned environmental problems and displaced 1.13 million people, is at the center of China's energy conundrum: dams, the cleaner alternative to the coal-burning power plants to which the country's economy is addicted, carve a stark legacy on the landscape. A1 
 Iraq Attacks Continue to Fall
 The American military said the number of weekly attacks in Iraq had fallen to the lowest level since just before the February 2006 bombing of the Shiite shrine in Samarra, an event commonly used as a benchmark for the country's worst bloodletting after the American invasion. A1 
 Mexico's Mini-Matadors
 Children are not allowed to fight bulls in Spain, but baby-faced bullfighters are the rage throughout Mexico. School-age children appearing at the country's scores of bullrings have begun getting top billing from promoters, who view them as a new way to bring people to the arena. A1 
 Pakistani Group Defies Ban
 The Pakistan-based group Tabligh Jamaat, suspected by Western intelligence agencies to be a recruiting ground for jihadists, held its annual convention despite the Pakistani government's prohibition on large gatherings. The convention came to an end without incident. A9 
 Oil Field Empowers Brazil
 The discovery of the biggest deep-water oil field off the southeastern coast of Brazil has the potential to transform the country into a global energy powerhouse and to reshape the politics of South America. A3
 Cyclone Toll Reaches 2,300
 The death toll from Bangladesh's most devastating storm in a decade climbed to at least 2,300, and relief officials warned the figure could jump sharply as rescuers reach more isolated areas. A5 
 Greece-Turkey Oil Pipeline
 Greece and Turkey opened a $300 million pipeline, creating an energy corridor that connects the rich natural gas fields in the Caspian Sea region to Europe, bypassing Russia and the Middle East. A14
 Skiing Over Kosovo's Rifts
 Brezovica, a ski resort located 5,600 feet high,is one place where Kosovo's Albanians and Serbs try to get along. ''We love to ski more than we love to hate,'' one Albanian explains. A4 
 NATIONALA16-21
 While Aiming at Clinton, McCain Balances Attack
 The Republican presidential candidates have taken aim at Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, making the assumption that her lead position in national polls makes her the likely Democratic nominee. But Senator John McCain, above, has tapped into the well of anti-Clinton sentiment with more tolerance than his rivals. A17 
 Firm Profits in Credit Crisis
 As turmoil in the credit market has swept wildly through Wall Street, one mighty investment bank after another has been brought to its knees, leveled by multibillion-dollar blows to their bottom lines. Then there is Goldman Sachs, which has managed to keep making money through the bust. A1
 Confronting Energy Needs
 In Fort Collins, Colo., two proposed energy projects, solar power and a uranium mine, are exposing the hard place that communities across the country are likely to face in the coming years as environmentalism and local politics have collided with a broader moral debate about the good of the planet. A16 
 Financial Toll of Caregiving
 The out-of-pocket cost of caring for an aging parent or ailing spouse averages about $5,500 a year, according to the nation's first in-depth study of such expenses, a sum that is more than double previous estimates and more than the average American household spends annually on health care and entertainment combined. A18 
 War-Spending Bill Falters
 Frustrated by the lack of political progress in Iraq, , under pressure by antiwar groups, and mindful of polls showing that most Americans want the war to end, Democrats in Congress put forward a $50 billion war spending bill with strings attached, knowing it would fail, but they insist that they will continue proposing such measures. A21
 Settlement in Alaska Case
 A Roman Catholic religious order has agreed to pay $50 million to more than 100 Alaska Natives who say they were the victims of sexual abuse by Jesuit priests, a lawyer for the victims said. The settlement with the Oregon Province of the Society of Jesus is the largest one yet against a Catholic religious order. A18
 New Claims Against Jefferson
 Prosecutors have accused Representative William J. Jefferson, Democrat of Louisiana, of soliciting bribes in two suspected schemes that are separate from the bribery charges he already faces, according to a published report. Prosecutors plan to use the latest accusations during Mr. Jefferson's trial as evidence of a pattern of wrongdoing. A21 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Witness Retaliation Prompts New Tactics
 Detectives in New Jersey are being urged to build criminal cases with as few witnesses as possible -- or, in some cases, no civilian witnesses at all -- because of the fear that the authorities might be unable to protect them from retaliation.A1 
 Haggling to Feed Poor
 City Harvest has long solicited donations of fresh produce from upstate farmers. When farmers started balking, the organization's officials decided to reimburse farmers for some of their costs. B1
 Star Witness Vanishes
 Thomas Morales is wanted as a witness in the killing of a bouncer at the Palladium nightclub on Nov. 23, 1990. But after a late October court appearance, Mr. Morales vanished.B1
 SPORTSMONDAYD1-8
 Questions at Michigan
 The announcement by Lloyd Carr, left, that he is retiring as the head coach of the University of Michigan's football team has fueled speculation that Les Miles of Louisiana State will be his successor. D1 
 ARTSE1-10
 Report Cites Less Reading
 A new report being released by the National Endowment for the Arts suggests that Americans -- particularly younger Americans -- appear to be reading less for fun, and as that happens, their reading test scores are declining. E1
 Almost 'Saturday Night Live'
 Because the film and television writers' strike precluded broadcasting new episodes of ''Saturday Night Live,'' the cast, writers and a few key production staff members instead gathered in a subterranean comedy theater in New York to perform the show live on stage for an audience of less than 200, including a Who's Who of downtown comedy. E1
 OBITUARIESB7
 Craig Smith
 The founding music director of the Emmanuel Music orchestra and chorus in Boston who led the first complete cycle of Bach's cantatas in the United States as well as an expansive exploration of works from the 16th century to the present day, he was 60.B7
 Martin D. Raab
 A former senior partner at one of New York's prominent architecture firms who was chosen by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to lead the city's School Construction Authorityhe was 75. B7
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12
 Magazine's Rise
 Vice magazine has built a small media empire out of a raw sensibility and a willingness to deal with taboo subjects. But its Web site has a major media partner: Viacom. C1
 Producer's Success
 Brian Grazer, the Hollywood producer who helped start Imagine Entertainment, operates under the assumption that his interests reflect the public's. More often than not, he is right. C1 
 Financial Stocks Stumble
 Financial stocks are down 17.6 percent for the year, and many market specialists expect that they will remain under pressure in the coming year, making it harder for the broader market toregain its footing. C1
 OPEC Summit Meeting
 A summit of OPEC's heads of state held at the Saudi royal court revealed competing visions for the oil-producing group. The rare meeting happened at a time of renewed concerns over the record level of oil prices and the falling value of the dollar. C1
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Keeping Americans in their homes; remember the war on drugs?; rendition, torture and accountability; reform and consumer safety. 
 Columns: Roger Cohen and Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (83%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (70%); RESORTS (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (93%); TURKEY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); GREECE (86%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



425 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Discovers an Oil Field Can Be a Political Tool

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
With the price of oil hovering near $100 a barrel, the discovery of the biggest deep-water oil field off the southeastern coast has the potential to transform Brazil into a global energy powerhouse and to reshape the politics of this energy-starved continent.
 While Brazil's state oil company, Petrobras, has known of the field for more than a year, it only finished assessing its full potential in recent months. It announced on Nov. 8 that the field held some five billion to eight billion barrels of crude oil and natural gas. 
 The announcement has everyone in the region, and beyond, taking notice. A field that size -- the biggest in the world since a discovery in Kazakhstan in 2000 -- is a potential political game-changer for Brazil. 
 In the next five years it is conceivable that Brazil could move ahead of Mexico and Canada in total oil reserves, becoming second only to Venezuela and the United States in the energy pecking order of the Americas.
 This is heady stuff for Brazil, a country that only last year became a net energy exporter mostly because of its aggressive push into sugar-cane ethanol and hydroelectric power. 
 ''All of a sudden Brazil is emerging as an energy power,'' said Peter Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy group in Washington focusing on Latin America. ''Everything they have developed, from soybeans to sugar to oil is suddenly working. They have had amazing luck.'' 
 There is little doubt that the find gives Brazil new influence against energy players like Bolivia and Venezuela, and not just in the economic competition among energy suppliers, but in the political arena as well. 
 Much to the chagrin of the United States, Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, has used his nation's oil wealth to aggressively push a leftist agenda at home and abroad. The Brazilian field, known as Tupi, now has the potential to lend more weight to Brazil's more moderate, leftist approach. 
 Already countries around the region have been quick to sense the potential threats and benefits. With news of the discovery coming just ahead of a meeting of Latin American leaders in Santiago, Chile, Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, acknowledged there during the meeting that he was being ''treated with a certain deference'' by the other leaders. 
 Mr. Chavez nervously jested that Mr. da Silva was now an ''oil magnate.'' He also quickly suggested that the two nations create an Amazonian energy region similar to the Caribbean and Andean integration efforts Venezuela had been pushing for. 
 ''Now Lula has some cards to put on the table with Chavez,'' said Roberto Teixeira da Costa, an economist who serves on the board of the private equity arm of Brazil's development bank. ''It is good to have some counterweight in Latin America.'' It seems the discovery has already given Mr. da Silva more confidence in standing up to Mr. Chavez and his protege, the Bolivian president, Evo Morales. 
 Petrobras on Tuesday pulled out of a natural gas project with Venezuela, citing ''technical and economic reasons.'' It denied the pullout had anything to do with the Tupi discovery.
 A cartoon in the Brazilian newspaper O Globo showed Mr. da Silva sunbathing atop an oil gusher one day, and breathing a black substance into the face of Mr. Morales the next. ''There's Lula, full of gas: be careful Morales!'' the caption read. 
 The turnabout is dramatic. Just two years ago Mr. Morales announced the nationalization of his nation's energy reserves. The step was a firm slap to Brazil, which had invested in Bolivia. Now analysts expect the new field will allow Brazil to take a tougher stand in its negotiations with Bolivia over new gas contracts and investments in Bolivia's nationalized gas sector. 
 Mr. da Silva basked in the sudden possibilities, declaring that ''Brazil would obviously participate in OPEC,'' the global oil cartel, and already felt free enough to weigh in on its politics, saying that the organization should reduce oil prices. 
 He also insisted that Brazil would not ''pull back even one millimeter'' from its push into biofuels. Brazil is sitting on the most abundant farmland in the world, which it has been using a part of to produce sugar cane for ethanol.
 Not least, though the new oil will not be online for at least five years, the announcement of the size of the field may help Mr. da Silva blunt criticism at home that Brazil was heading into an energy crisis because of a shortage of natural gas. 
 It has also raised hopes of easing the energy crisis among Brazil's neighbors, notably Argentina and Chile, which have been struggling with a lack of natural gas of their own. 
 Argentina has consistently cut off the flow of gas to Chile for the past two winters, causing Chile to scramble to find supplies elsewhere, and Bolivia's nationalization has raised doubts about its ability to supply its neighbors' growing energy demand. 
 ''Every country in Latin America is aiming for energy independence, because they don't have that much trust in their neighbors,'' Mr. Hakim said.
 Just last week Michelle Bachelet, Chile's president, rejected an offer from Mr. Chavez of subsidized gasoline for the struggling public transportation system in Santiago. Ms. Bachelet said she was convinced that Chileans could resolve the system's problems ''ourselves.''
 Meanwhile, Petrobras, which has developed into a leading expert on deep-water oil exploration, will have to work hard to tap the find. 
 To coax the oil from Tupi, engineers will have to drill up to 16,000 feet below the sea floor through salt and rocks, in water depths of up to 10,000 feet, an undertaking that is at the frontier of the industry's technological ability, according to PFC Energy, a consultancy in Washington. 
 Even if the field turns out to be a good deal bigger than Petrobras has estimated publicly, Brazil still could not match Venezuela's 80 billion barrels of oil reserves. The Tupi field, if it holds at least 5 billion barrels, could push Brazil past 17 billion barrels. 
 ''This is oil that is promised for the future, not for today or tomorrow,'' said Larry Goldstein, director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation in Washington. ''If I was Chavez I wouldn't be losing a lot of sleep -- not yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ALCOHOLS (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (90%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (90%); PBR (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (78%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



426 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Americans in Their Homes

 BODY:
The nation's housing market is in a deep recession, and further declines in new construction, sales and prices are imminent. By the end of next year, falling home values, combined with rising payments on adjustable mortgages, tighter lending conditions and, in all probability, a faltering job market, will have unleashed mass foreclosures -- estimated at several hundred thousand to two million -- unless something is done to help keep Americans in their homes. 
 The Bush administration has no relief plan that is up to the frightening scale of this problem. And no one in the administration seems to feel much urgency. Administration officials often lowball the number of imminent foreclosures and question the significance of statistics on the housing downturn. 
 In a speech last week extolling the economy's strength, President Bush made just one reference to the battered housing market, calling it ''challenged,'' and asserted that we can ''deal with it'' and other economic uncertainties, ''particularly if we keep the taxes low.'' 
 Fortunately, some members of Congress do have a plan to help.
 Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, recently introduced a bill that would allow bankruptcy courts to modify repayment terms on mortgages for primary homes. That could keep an estimated 600,000 troubled borrowers in their homes, paying off their mortgages, albeit over longer terms, at lower interest rates or on lower principal balances. 
 The bill also undoes a longstanding injustice. Under current law, mortgages on primary homes are the only type of secured debt that is ineligible for bankruptcy protection. Owners of vacation homes, farms and commercial property can modify those debts in bankruptcy court. But not your everyday homeowner. Under any circumstances, that double standard should not be allowed. With a foreclosure debacle unfolding, it must be rectified. 
 There are worrying signs that the White House will oppose the reform. Opponents will likely argue that modifying troubled mortgages in bankruptcy may pose a threat to the legal sanctity of other contracts. That makes no sense. Contracts are modified every day in bankruptcy court. A mortgage on a primary home is not significantly different from other secured debt. 
 The mortgage industry is already warning that granting bankruptcy protection to most mortgages would raise borrowers' costs. That doesn't make much sense either. The total economic costs of foreclosure are much greater than bankruptcy-associated costs. The cost of making sound loans could drop if the Durbin bill became law. 
 Senator Durbin's reform bill must move through the Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over bankruptcy issues. The committee's chairman, Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, should schedule a full committee hearing as soon as Congress returns from the Thanksgiving break. There is no time to lose. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); JURISDICTION (66%); THANKSGIVING (64%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%); PATRICK LEAHY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



427 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Creativity, Strikes And Power

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: Carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It was a good weekend for the labor that is organized around the creative arts. 
 Yesterday, Local 1, which represents the striking stagehands of Broadway, was in the midst of intensive talks with theater owners that seem destined to get the ''Grinch'' and other Broadway productions back in time for the holidays. 
 Meanwhile, the Writers Guild of America, which has been on strike since Nov. 5, agreed to go back to the bargaining table with the Alliance of Motion Picture & Television Producers, although not until Nov. 26. 
 On the surface, the writers would seem to have all the cards, and the stagehands few. Hollywood writers fuel a much larger enterprise owned by publicly traded companies, have creative expertise and they even had Ron Howard walking a picket in front of Viacom in New York last Thursday. (When you're riding with Opie, your cause must be just.)
 But the stagehands, who began striking almost a week after the writers, are most likely the ones who will be heading back to work first. The writers still confront the stalemate over distribution of revenues from digital content. So how will 400 or so (mostly) beefy guys in Manhattan accomplish what currently seems beyond the reach of the 12,000 members of the writers' guild?
 Begin with the fact that the stagehands have actual leverage -- the ability to shut down moneymaking entertainment that occurs at a specific time and place. Writers are increasingly part of a digital economy, where entertainment comes from every direction, and shutting off the spigot is next to impossible.
 The issue was addressed with some unintended irony last week when one of the writers from ''The Daily Show'' put together a cute, well-written video about the greed and shortsightedness of media companies and studios. The video attacking The Man and championing writers' rights appeared on The Huffington Post, a busy Web site built on this business plan: hundreds of bloggers who post there aren't paid.
 Just how different are the strikes and the world they confront? In the studios, the writers have an opponent whose interests are not immediately threatened, or necessarily aligned. CBS, now a separate division of Viacom, has no significant movie business, while Sony is not in the television business. 
 The News Corporation has a significant hedge because it has a huge hit in ''American Idol,'' a lucrative franchise that could be stretched to cover a multitude of shortfalls. Peter Chernin, the president of the News Corporation, said in a conference call about earnings last week that the walkout is ''probably a positive'' for the company. ''We save more money in term deals, and story costs, and probably the lack of making pilots than we lose in potential advertising.''
 Although back-channel efforts by talent agents, politicians and media executives may push the writers' talks back to the table, the pressure to settle is more intense on Broadway, where millions of dollars immediately started going by the wayside each night the lights were out.
 ''With Broadway and the stagehands, the value chain begins and ends pretty much with the theaters themselves,'' said Ronald L. Seeber, a professor of industrial relations at Cornell. ''It's much more akin to what the auto workers have been fighting about -- the number of warm bodies, manning requirements and job duties.''
 ''The writers want to participate in profits that come from the creative process,'' he added. ''It has a much longer tail. Right now, I am using a DVD of 'Twelve Angry Men' in my classes, a film that is 50 years old and demonstrates the power and longevity of what was created.''
 The writers have managed, by some reports, to shut down 50 television shows. Jorge Zamacona, a guild member and writer-producer who got his start on ''St. Elsewhere'' and most recently served as a writer-producer on ''Wanted,'' since canceled, said that by refusing to negotiate on the future revenues of digital outlets, the studios seemed to be trying to rub them out of the picture for good.
 ''They are absolutely trying to break the union,'' he said. ''My daughter watches streamed versions of 'Gossip Girl' and 'Grey's Anatomy,' and they all include commercials. Why should writers not be paid a small part of that?'' 
 Having recently moved from Los Angeles back to New York, he has watched with interest as the stagehands have moved toward settlement. ''They must be dealing with rational human beings who want to their business to continue to thrive.''
 With the joint announcement of talks, rationality seemed to be getting a turn after weeks of verbal grenades in the writers' strike.
 ''There could easily be a compromise in the writers' strike right now,'' said David Thomson, a film historian. ''The studios clearly want to break the union up in order to be ready for what is coming down the road.''
 Judd Apatow, a writer-producer who had worked in television and more recently made ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin,'' ''Knocked Up'' and the forthcoming ''Walk Hard,'' suggested that the business model that is driving the studios' hard line is a little backward. Digital or not, well-written content can be a lucrative business.
 ''One of the problems is a lack of creativity,'' he said. ''The studios spend enormous amounts of money making these massive spectacles when they could be making much better written, lower cost movies. A few less of those and they could fund a settlement for years. There would be no reason for this strike.''
 The stagehands may have what writers want -- a working settlement -- but the outlook for unions remains grim, whether in pixels or plays.
 ''Both unions are operating from a defensive position, whether they will admit it or not,'' said Peter J. Rachleff, a professor of history at Macalester College. ''We are living in a political economy that assumes workers are going to go backwards in almost every instance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Media Equation column in Business Day on Monday, about the strike by the Writers Guild of America, referred incorrectly to the business interests of the Sony Corporation. The company is indeed in the television industry as the producer of several shows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); BUSINESS PLANS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (63%); MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (57%); VIACOM INC (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); PETER CHERNIN (50%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007



428 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ECONOMIC SIGNALS The main economic news of the week will come on Tuesday, when the Federal Reserve releases the minutes from its October meeting and issues its first of its new economic forecasts. 
 Other reports will include housing starts for October (Tuesday); and the Conference Board's leading economic indicators and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey (Wednesday).
COMPANY REPORTS Earnings reports will come from Campbell Soup, Hewlett-Packard, Lowe's, Medtronic and Nordstrom (Monday); American Eagle Outfitters, Barnes & Noble, Borders, D. R. Horton, Freddie Mac, Hormel Foods, Limited Brands, Saks and Target (Tuesday); and Deere and Gap (Wednesday).
 THANKSGIVING BREAK Markets, government offices and many businesses will be closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving. The stock and bond markets will close early on Friday.
 ET CETERA A task force led by David Walker, left, a former chairman of Morgan Stanley in Europe, will release its final report on a code of conduct for disclosure for private equity firms (Tuesday)
 Sentencing on fraud charges is scheduled for Newsday newspaper executives caught in a circulation scandal (Tuesday).
 Friday is the traditional start of the holiday shopping season. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); BONDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); SCANDALS (71%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (70%); BOND MARKETS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (71%); BORDERS GROUP INC (71%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); D R HORTON INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: AEO (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); DHI (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (71%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (71%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (71%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009



429 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: The Scientists Speak

 BODY:
The world's scientists have done their job. Now it's time for world leaders, starting with President Bush, to do theirs. That is the urgent message at the core of the latest -- and the most powerful -- report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a group of 2,500 scientists who collectively constitute the world's most authoritative voice on global warming. 
 Released in Spain over the weekend, the report leaves no doubt that man-made emissions from the burning of fossil fuels (and, to a lesser extent, deforestation) have been responsible for the steady rise in atmospheric temperatures.
 If these emissions are not brought under control, the report predicts, the consequences could be disastrous: further melting at the poles, sea levels rising high enough to submerge island nations, the elimination of one-quarter or more of the world's species, widespread famine in places like Africa, more violent hurricanes.
 And it warns that time is running out. To avoid the worst of these disasters, it says, the world must stabilize emissions of greenhouse gases by 2015, begin to reduce them shortly thereafter and largely free itself of carbon-emitting technologies by midcentury.
 As Rajendra Pachauri, a scientist and economist who leads the I.P.C.C., noted: ''What we do in the next two or three years will define our future.''
 Deep in all this gloom is a considerable ray of hope: significant progress toward stabilizing and reducing emissions can be achieved using known technologies. This a hugely important message for policy makers and for those who say there's no point in spending money on the problem because the game is already lost. The world does not have to rely on pie-in-the-sky technologies, the report insists. What it really needs is a policy structure to encourage major investments in cleaner technologies that are already at hand or within reach. 
 The report's urgent warnings and its message of hope could not be more timely. Nations will gather in Bali next month to begin framing a successor to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, which expires in 2012. Under normal circumstances, Bali would be the beginning of a long, contentious process; Kyoto, negotiated in 1997, did not take effect for seven years. What the I.P.C.C. is saying is that the world cannot afford to wait for another grand agreement, and certainly not for another seven years. It needs action now.
 Every member of Congress should read this report. The Senate has begun hearings on legislation that would put a mandatory cap on carbon emissions. The bill is not perfect and, to some critics, not strong enough. But it is a worthy start and would move the United States toward the cleaner fuels and carbon-free technologies essential to the task of changing the way the world produces and uses energy. 
 Mr. Bush should also read it and order extra copies for members of his staff. After years of denial, the president now concedes that a problem exists. But he still insists on voluntary remedies and still worries about the costs to the American economy of anything more ambitious. If there is one message Mr. Bush and other world leaders must take away from the scientists, it is that the price of more delay will be far greater. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); BIOFUELS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); DEFORESTATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); WEATHER (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); FAMINE (68%); LEGISLATION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



430 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Morality and the Death Penalty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Does Death Penalty Save Lives? A New Debate'' (front page, Nov. 18):
 The revived debate over the death penalty already seems destined to miss the mark. It is not a technical or empirical issue, but a moral one. As such, economists and other social scientists have little to tell us as empirical chroniclers about the death penalty's continued use. 
 Although a demonstration that the death penalty has no deterrent effect would be morally significant in curbing its use, there is no particular or free-standing moral significance to the claim that it does have some deterrent effect. 
 There are all manner of punishments and innovations that might be introduced if deterrence were the only or main determinant of its social acceptability: chopping off limbs, stoning people and corporal punishment might be usefully retried. 
 The fact is that the death penalty, like limb-chopping or stoning, is a morally outrageous practice whatever its deterrent effect: it reduces society to the ethical level of the murderer. In a society that aspires to be moral and just, there is no room for such a state-sanctioned uncivilized practice.
 Allan C. Hutchinson
 Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 18, 2007
 The writer is a visiting professor at Harvard Law School.
 To the Editor:
 Statistical analysis may sound scientific, but people don't behave according to economists' mathematical formulas. If the death penalty deterred killers, we would be able to find at least one, in a state without the death penalty, who expected to be caught and imprisoned for life but committed murder anyway. No rational person would make that exchange. 
 Economists will keep debating the numbers, but they should support public policy that sends clear, rational messages. Here's one: Killing people is wrong -- whether they're walking in a dark alley or strapped to a gurney. 
 Howard Tomb
 Brooklyn, Nov. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Even if we have no clue whether or not the death penalty actually deters, crime prevention is only one of a handful of reasons that a jurisdiction might consider when choosing to mete out the ultimate punishment. 
 Retribution and the community's expression of moral outrage are at least as important. Failure to deter doesn't inevitably drive us to the logical conclusion to execute the death penalty itself. 
 Jonathan Lubin
 New Haven, Nov. 18, 2007
 The writer is a student at Yale Law School.
 To the Editor:
 If the death penalty actually deterred others from committing murder, you would think that the death row in Texas would be almost empty by this time and our murder rate would be near zero. We have had 405 executions in Texas during the last 25 years, four times more than any other state in the nation, and we still have about 370 people on death row. Somehow, criminals are not getting the message. 
 The most recent study on deterrence in Texas was published in 1999. A team of university researchers found no evidence of a deterrent effect when the death penalty was carried out in Texas. I would think that this study done by university professionals in the most prolific death penalty state in the nation would have a high degree of credibility in this debate.
 My personal experience from visiting prisoners on death row over many years is that they were often high on alcohol or drugs, were not thinking of consequences, and did not think that they would be caught. 
 If we want to deter violent crime, we must do a much better job in financing programs that prevent violent crime, such as drug and alcohol rehabilitation programs, mental health services, child protective services and anti-gang programs. David Atwood
 Houston, Nov. 18, 2007
 The writer is founder of the Texas Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty.
 To the Editor:
 Studies that suggest execution as a method of lowering the murder rate are invalid because the cost of alternative means was not considered. Your article doesn't acknowledge that the assumption that underlies economics -- rational choice -- is inapplicable. If rational choice applied, communities would weigh the cost of execution against other means of prevention. 
 Of the men I have represented on death row, three were turned away from drug treatment centers shortly before the crimes. Other murders would have been prevented if social services had been sufficiently financed to intervene in horrific childhoods. Mentally ill individuals, too poor to afford care, ended up on death row after psychosis-driven murders. 
 Spending millions on execution, while cost-cutting on other services, is not a rational choice. The death penalty increases the murder rate, because it necessitates allocation of limited tax dollars to execution while cutting basic social and mental health services.
 Marilyn Ozer
 Chapel Hill, N.C., Nov. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The possibility that the death penalty does in fact serve as a deterrent brings up an important, if unsettling, question: If we are going to execute criminals because doing so will prevent other crimes and save lives, shouldn't we do everything possible to maximize that deterrence with as much publicity as possible? Shouldn't we mandate public executions? 
 I think we know the answer: there is a deep, natural revulsion against seeing a person killed -- by the state or anyone else. And that should tell us something about the death penalty. 
 It is antithetical to civilized society. It does more damage than good. Advocates for the death penalty might disagree. But then they would need to answer honestly why we keep the death penalty behind closed doors.
 Fred P. Hochberg
 New York, Nov. 18, 2007
 The writer is dean of the Milano School for Management and Urban Policy at the New School.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MURDER (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ETHICS (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (75%); CORPORAL PUNISHMENT IN SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MATHEMATICS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



431 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Audit Finds Misuse of $34 Million Student Loan Subsidy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
The student loan corporation in Pennsylvania improperly exploited a subsidy program to collect $34 million from the government, said a report released yesterday by the inspector general of the federal Education Department. 
 The audit called on the department to recover the payments to the corporation, the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency, a state-owned company that makes and guarantees student loans. 
 The chief executive of the agency, James Preston, defended its conduct.
 In a statement, Mr. Preston said the agency had complied with department regulations and received the payments with the approval of the department. The report, he added, is based on ''present-day interpretation of past department regulations,'' ''and ignores 10 years of our compliance with regulations.''
 A spokeswoman for the department, Samara Yudof, said the report was under review.
 The subsidy program was enacted in the 1980s, when interest rates were high, as an incentive to continue making the loans. It guaranteed lenders a 9.5 percent rate of return. Congress tried to rein in the program in 1993 as interest rates fell, but the loans ballooned as lenders exploited a loophole to keep receiving the subsidy. 
 The failure to crack down on the program has simmered in Congress. A former official in the department testified that he had urged the Bush administration to stop the subsidy. 
 The inspector general called on the department in January to recover $278 million in subsidies to Nelnet, a lender in Lincoln, Neb. The department suspended more than $800 million in future payments to Nelnet until an independent audit confirmed it was eligible and moved to curtail payments to all lenders except those proving eligibility with audits.
 Education Secretary Margaret Spellings told Congress that she settled with Nelnet because she thought that her department's subsidy history could put it in legal jeopardy if Nelnet sued. 
 The new findings prompted criticism by Democrats in Congress. Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, said, ''The Bush administration's reckless refusal to conduct proper oversight allowed a lender to egregiously misuse tens of millions of taxpayer dollars that were intended to help students and families pay for college.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: STUDENT LOAN CORP (93%); NELNET INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%)

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%)

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



432 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Decline of the Tenure Track Raises Concerns at Colleges

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
Professors with tenure or who are on a tenure track are now a distinct minority on the country's campuses, as the ranks of part-time instructors and professors hired on a contract have swelled, according to federal figures analyzed by the American Association of University Professors.
 Elaine Zendlovitz, a former retail store manager who began teaching college courses six years ago, is representative of the change. Technically, Ms. Zendlovitz is a part-time Spanish professor, although, in fact, she teaches nearly all the time.
 Her days begin at the University of Michigan, Dearborn, with introductory classes. Some days end at 10 p.m. at Oakland Community College, in the suburbs north of Detroit, as she teaches six courses at four institutions. 
 ''I think we part-timers can be everything a full-timer can be,'' Ms. Zendlovitz said during a break in a 10-hour teaching day. But she acknowledged: ''It's harder to spend time with students. I don't have the prep time, and I know how to prepare a fabulous class.'' 
 The shift from a tenured faculty results from financial pressures, administrators' desire for more flexibility in hiring, firing and changing course offerings, and the growth of community colleges and regional public universities focused on teaching basics and preparing students for jobs.
 It has become so extreme, however, that some universities are pulling back, concerned about the effect on educational quality. Rutgers University agreed in a labor settlement in August to add 100 tenure or tenure-track positions. Across the country, faculty unions are organizing part-timers. And the American Federation of Teachers is pushing legislation in 11 states to mandate that 75 percent of classes be taught by tenured or tenure-track teachers. 
 Three decades ago, adjuncts -- both part-timers and full-timers not on a tenure track -- represented only 43 percent of professors, according to the professors association, which has studied data reported to the federal Education Department. Currently, the association says, they account for nearly 70 percent of professors at colleges and universities, both public and private. 
 John W. Curtis, the union's director of research and public policy, said that while the number of tenured and tenure-track professors has increased by about 25 percent over the past 30 years, they have been swamped by the growth in adjunct faculty. Over all, the number of people teaching at colleges and universities has doubled since 1975.
 University officials agree that the use of nontraditional faculty is soaring. But some contest the professors association's calculation, saying that definitions of part-time and full-time professors vary, and that it is not possible to determine how many courses, on average, each category of professor actually teaches. 
 Many state university presidents say tight budgets have made it inevitable that they turn to adjuncts to save money. 
 ''We have to contend with increasing public demands for accountability, increased financial scrutiny and declining state support,'' said Charles F. Harrington, provost of the University of North Carolina, Pembroke. ''One of the easiest, most convenient ways of dealing with these pressures is using part-time faculty,'' he said, though he cautioned that colleges that rely too heavily on such faculty ''are playing a really dangerous game.'' 
 Mark B. Rosenberg, chancellor of the State University System of Florida, said that part-timers can provide real-world experience to students and fill gaps in nursing, math, accounting and other disciplines with a shortage of qualified faculty. He also said the shift could come with costs. 
 Adjuncts are less likely to have doctoral degrees, educators say. They also have less time to meet with students, and research suggests that students who take many courses with them are somewhat less likely to graduate.
 ''Really, we are offering less educational quality to the students who need it most,'' said Ronald G. Ehrenberg, director of the Cornell Higher Education Research Institute, noting that the soaring number of adjunct faculty is most pronounced in community colleges and the less select public universities. The elite universities, both public and private, have the fewest adjuncts.
 ''It's not that some of these adjuncts aren't great teachers,'' Dr. Ehrenberg said. ''Many don't have the support that the tenure-track faculty have, in terms of offices, secretarial help and time. Their teaching loads are higher, and they have less time to focus on students.''
 Dr. Ehrenberg and a colleague analyzed 15 years of national data and found that graduation rates declined when public universities hired large numbers of contingent faculty. 
 Several studies of individual universities have determined that freshmen taught by many part-timers were more likely to drop out. 
 ''Having an adjunct in a course is not necessarily bad for you, but having too many adjuncts might be,'' said Eric P. Bettinger, an economics professor at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
 Students say they can often tell when a professor is part-time. Mike Brennan, a sophomore at the University of Michigan, Dearborn, said the courses taught by adjuncts tend to be more basic and the exams less challenging. ''They have so many classes that they give tests that are easier to grade,'' Mr. Brennan said.
 Carly Matkovich, a senior at the university, said she had bonded more with her part-time teachers, in part because they have more practical experience. But it is usually hard to find time to talk with them outside class. ''They're never around,'' Ms. Matkovich said. ''It does make me feel kind of cheated.''
 At some departments the proportion of faculty who are tenured is startlingly low. The psychology department at Florida International University in Miami has 2,400 undergraduate majors but only 19 tenured or tenure-track professors who teach, according to a department self-assessment. It is possible for a psychology major to graduate without taking a course with a full-time faculty member.
 ''We're at a point where it is extreme,'' said Suzanna Rose, a psychology professor who said she stepped down as department head in August, primarily because she could not hire as many tenure-track professors as she thought the department needed. ''I'm just very concerned about the quality.'' 
 Ronald Berkman, the provost at Florida International, disputed her numbers, saying the psychology department has 23 professors who are tenured or tenure track and 5 full-time teachers on contracts. The department is conducting a search for three more tenure-track professors, Dr. Berkman said.
 ''Which is not to say that they don't need more, which they do,'' he said. 
 Tenure, a practice carried from Germany to the United States, was designed to guarantee academic freedom to professors by protecting them against dismissal. Some argue that it also protects incompetent or lazy teachers and sometimes leaves universities saddled with professors in disciplines that have lost currency. 
 The lack of tenure can leave adjuncts vulnerable. In a number of cases, professors outside the tenure track have been dropped after run-ins with administrators over everything from grading to opinion articles in newspapers.
 Several unions have been organizing adjunct faculty in recent years. In Michigan, the American Federation of Teachers has successfully organized full-time, nontenure-track professors at Eastern Michigan University, as well as part-time and full-time adjuncts at the University of Michigan campuses in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint. 
 ''They are so exploited, the only difficulty in organizing adjuncts is finding them,'' said David Hecker, president of the teachers federation. 
 Keith Hoeller, who has been teaching philosophy for 17 years as a part-timer in Seattle, described it this way: ''It's a caste system, and we are the untouchables of academia.'' 
 Aletia Droba taught for 10 years as a part-time philosophy professor in the Detroit area. She said she was paid as little as $1,400 a course at community colleges and as much as $2,400 a class at universities. 
 Some semesters, Ms. Droba said, she taught as many as seven courses at four colleges, including across the border in Canada. This fall, she landed a full-time, non-tenure track job. She will teach five courses in the fall and spring combined -- less than the number she often taught in a single semester as a part-timer.
 Ms. Droba will not miss the constant driving that a part-timer does, shuttling among universities. ''My students used to ask me how come I knew so much about current affairs,'' she said. ''And I'd say, 'I listen to NPR all day.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Tuesday about the decline of tenure-track professors and the rising numbers of part-time instructors and professors at colleges nationwide misidentified the affiliation of John W. Curtis of the American Association of University Professors, which has studied these shifts. He is the director of research and public policy of the association, not of the American Federation of Teachers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elaine Zendlovitz, at the University of Michigan, Dearborn, puts in long days as she teaches six courses at four institutions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TENURE (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); BUDGETS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



433 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: Companies Bolster Sales Abroad To Offset Weakness at Home

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: SALISBURY, N.C., Nov. 16 

 BODY:
If the fortunes of the Power Curbers company were tied solely to business in the United States, these would be grim days at its factory on the fringes of this Piedmont town. The small, family-owned company makes machines that turn concrete into curbs, and with the American construction industry in distress, domestic sales are expected to drop at least 10 percent this year.
 But fortunately for Power Curbers, and indeed for the national economy, the company has transcended geography. Aided by the falling dollar, which makes American goods cheaper on world markets, Power Curbers, like thousands of other companies in the United States, is tapping rapid growth abroad to compensate for sluggish sales at home.
 ''It just overlapped as if you'd scripted it,'' said the company's president and chief executive officer, Dyke Messinger, the third generation to head the company begun by his grandfather in 1953. ''Without that foreign business, these would be some tough days. We'd have had some layoffs for sure.'' 
 As the United States heads into what many economists predict will be a substantial economic slowdown, the success of American firms in building sales abroad may cushion the blow. It could help prevent the economy from slipping into a recession. 
 In the first half of the year, profits earned at home by American companies grew not at all compared with a year earlier, according to an analysis by Moody'sEconomy.com. But profits abroad soared by 22 percent.
 Caterpillar, the maker of construction machines and engines, said its North American sales fell by 11 percent during the summer, according to its most recent earnings report, as the housing and construction slowdown in the United States cooled demand. But during those same months, Caterpillar's sales surged by roughly a third in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East and by 20 percent in Latin America. Overall, the company's sales grew 9 percent.
 McDonald's, a symbol of globalization, said its sales in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East grew at 2 1/2 times the pace of sales at home. 
 ''Look at the top 30 economies in the world: Every one is in expansion except for two -- Denmark and Japan,'' said David Huether, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers. ''For the next year or so, the global economy is strong.''
 But whether strong business abroad can in the longer term offset weakness at home is far from certain. Though the global economy has been growing at more than twice the pace of the United States economy -- propelled by the breakneck development of China, Russia and India -- some economists see signs of slackening.
 The International Monetary Fund recently predicted a slight easing in global growth next year while warning that the downturn in mortgage markets could spawn wider troubles. If institutions in Europe follow Wall Street banks in logging huge losses on their mortgage-related holdings, that could crimp new investment and slow the economy.
 European exporters are already struggling with the effects of a soaring euro, which makes their products more expensive. Factories across Asia, Latin America and Europe are bracing for the consequences of tighter American spending, which could curb demand for Guatemalan-made clothing, Chinese-built computers and German-produced cars. 
 Recently, economists have been debating whether it is possible for the global economy to continue expanding even if fortunes dim in the United States. Some argue that the needs of rapidly developing societies are so vast that they can compensate for slack growth in the industrial countries.
 ''Think of 400 million people in China going from the 6th century to the 21st century over the last 15 years,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG, a brokerage and advisory firm. ''The same thing is going on in India as well. That's still the big driver for growth. It could self-destruct for any number of reasons, but that underlying story is decades away from being over.'' 
 But if that is the future, some economists assert that the present remains shaped primarily by conditions in the United States -- by far the world's largest economy. If declining house prices cause Americans to spend less, that would most likely diminish demand for, say, DVD players made in factories in southern China. And that could in turn limit demand for the American-made chips at the heart of DVD players and the American-made machines used to build them. 
 More broadly, if China's exports slow as a result of diminished spending in the United States, that could cool the exuberant wave of real estate development remaking China's cities. And that might limit demand for Caterpillar's earth-moving machines, for computer software developed in Silicon Valley to manage such projects and for American architectural services. 
 ''The United States is the ultimate engine of growth in the world, still,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and a fellow at the Brookings Institution. 
 For now, though, and much to the relief of corporate America, the cycle is working in reverse: Healthier overseas markets are propping up American balance sheets.
 The United States has been rocked by the housing downturn, but the rest of the world has, at least for now, mostly skated clear. High energy prices have exacted a toll on Americans, because oil is priced in American dollars. Countries with other currencies -- in particular those in Europe -- are enjoying a built-in hedge against more expensive oil as their money climbs against the dollar. And countries that export oil and other natural resources are raking in profits, sending them shopping for American wares and expertise.
 In Columbus, Neb., the Behlen Manufacturing Company said sales of its cattle-handling equipment dipped in the United States. But the falling dollar has contributed to orders from Ukraine and Hungary for grain storage silos, partially offsetting Behlen's losses. ''We compete against the Europeans for these contracts,'' said the company's chairman, Tony Raimondo.
 Through the end of September, American exports reached $1.2 trillion, a jump of nearly 12 percent compared with the same period in 2006. Even more important to the profitability of American companies are their overseas sales of goods and services that they produce abroad.
 As capital flowed from American shores in recent decades, it was mostly used to set up factories that could make goods cheaply for consumers in the United States and other wealthy countries. But increasingly, American multinationals with factories and offices overseas are keen to sell their goods and services to the people living those countries. 
 Six years ago, large American companies that disclosed their foreign sales sold about a third of their products abroad, according to an analysis by Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. Last year, the foreign take climbed to 44 percent. Next year, foreign sales are forecast to surpass those at home.
 Cisco Systems, the big maker of telecommunications gear, said its orders in the United States grew by 13 percent in its most recent quarter, while those in Europe expanded at a 20 percent clip, and those in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Turkey grew by about a third. 
 The Carnival Corporation, the cruise line operator, has been concentrating new investments in Europe, where people generally have more vacation days and the economy has been expanding. Of the 21 ships being built for Carnival's various brands, 12 are destined for Europe. 
 ''There's real global growth in our business, and the exchange rate has dramatically accelerated that,'' said Carnival's chief executive, Micky Arison.
 Here in Salisbury, about 45 miles north of Charlotte, the increasingly global aspirations of Power Curbers demonstrate how even small, family-owned enterprises have gone global.
 When Mr. Messinger took over the company from his father in 1981, Power Curbers had only one employee overseas. Today it has three, all working in sales and marketing, and a network of more than 50 foreign distributors.
 Foreign sales are on track to more than double, compared with last year, and should make up about a third of total sales, Mr. Messinger said.
 One morning last week, the whiteboard that tracks construction in the factory showed four domestic orders, plus two machines in the making for Angola, one for Belgium and one for India. A finished machine awaited shipment to Egypt.
 In September, as American sales diminished, Mr. Messinger fretted that he would have to cut his work force. But as foreign orders poured in, he hired four people instead, bringing the ranks of the Salisbury factory to 86. 
 ''Everything seems fine and steady,'' said Tray Hawkins, donning white coveralls as he applied paint to parts. A veteran of the Iraq war, Mr. Hawkins returned home more than a year ago and struggled to find decent-paying work, he said. In March, he began at Power Curbers, earning what he called a good salary and benefits. Among the machines he has helped build, more than 10 are bound for Iraq, where a road-building effort is under way. 
 Mr. Messinger says he is confident the foreign boom can continue. This year he has greeted customers from Algeria, China, India, Ireland and Mexico. 
 ''I don't see it ending,'' Mr. Messinger said. ''If the world's population is growing, you've got to put them somewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tray Hawkins works at the Power Curbers plant in Salisbury, N.C.Without an increase in overseas sales, the company's chief executive said, ''We'd have had some layoffs for sure.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A18) EXPORTS INCREASE: Rising exports may help to offset a potential economic slowdown in the United States. (Sources: Standard & Poor's, U.S. Census Bureau) (pg. A18) Exports Increase TOTAL U.S. EXPORTS IN TRILLIONS THROUGH SEPTEMBER '05 '06 '06 '07 +12.7% +11.8% $1.5 1.0 0.5 0 Sources: Standard & Poor's, U.S. Census Bureau THE NEW YORK TIMES Rising exports may help to offset a potential economic slowdown in the United States. *Uses data from 238 of the S.&P. 500 companies, as it includes only those companies with foreign sales comprising 15 to 85 percent of total, and does not include companies with figures unavailable or not calculated. Data are for fiscal years. FOREIGN SALES AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL SALES OF S. & P. 500 COMPANIES* 32.3 44.2 % 2001 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); RECESSION (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); DENMARK (53%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



434 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Are Scientists Playing God? It Depends on Your Religion

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Now that biologists in Oregon have reported using cloning to produce a monkey embryo and extract stem cells, it looks more plausible than before that a human embryo will be cloned and that, some day, a cloned human will be born. But not necessarily on this side of the Pacific.
 American and European researchers have made most of the progress so far in biotechnology. Yet they still face one very large obstacle -- God, as defined by some Western religions. 
 While critics on the right and the left fret about the morality of stem-cell research and genetic engineering, prominent Western scientists have been going to Asia, like the geneticists Nancy Jenkins and Neal Copeland, who left the National Cancer Institute and moved last year to Singapore. 
 Asia offers researchers new labs, fewer restrictions and a different view of divinity and the afterlife. In South Korea, when Hwang Woo Suk reported creating human embryonic stem cells through cloning, he did not apologize for offending religious taboos. He justified cloning by citing his Buddhist belief in recycling life through reincarnation.
 When Dr. Hwang's claim was exposed as a fraud, his research was supported by the head of South Korea's largest Buddhist order, the Rev. Ji Kwan. The monk said research with embryos was in accord with Buddha's precepts and urged Korean scientists not to be guided by Western ethics. 
 ''Asian religions worry less than Western religions that biotechnology is about 'playing God,''' says Cynthia Fox, the author of ''Cell of Cells,'' a book about the global race among stem-cell researchers. ''Therapeutic cloning in particular jibes well with the Buddhist and Hindu ideas of reincarnation.'' 
 You can see this East-West divide in maps drawn up by Lee M. Silver, a molecular biologist at Princeton. Dr. Silver, who analyzes clashes of spirituality and science in his book ''Challenging Nature,'' has been charting biotechnology policies around the world and trying to make spiritual sense of who's afraid of what.
 Most of southern and eastern Asia displays relatively little opposition to either cloned embryonic stem-cell research or genetically modified crops. China, India, Singapore and other countries have enacted laws supporting embryo cloning for medical research (sometimes called therapeutic cloning, as opposed to reproductive cloning intended to recreate an entire human being). Genetically modified crops are grown in China, India and elsewhere. 
 In Europe, though, genetically modified crops are taboo. Cloning human embryos for research has been legally supported in England and several other countries, but it is banned in more than a dozen others, including France and Germany. 
 In North and South America, genetically altered crops are widely used. But embryo cloning for research has been banned in most countries, including Brazil, Canada and Mexico. It has not been banned nationally in the United States, but the research is ineligible for federal financing, and some states have outlawed it. 
 Dr. Silver explains these patterns by dividing spiritual believers into three broad categories. The first, traditional Christians, predominate in the Western Hemisphere and some European countries. The second, which he calls post-Christians, are concentrated in other European countries and parts of North America, especially along the coasts. The third group are followers of Eastern religions. 
 ''Most people in Hindu and Buddhist countries,'' Dr. Silver says, ''have a root tradition in which there is no single creator God. Instead, there may be no gods or many gods, and there is no master plan for the universe. Instead, spirits are eternal and individual virtue -- karma -- determines what happens to your spirit in your next life. With some exceptions, this view generally allows the acceptance of both embryo research to support life and genetically modified crops.''
 By contrast, in the Judeo-Christian tradition, God is the master creator who gives out new souls to each individual human being and gives humans ''dominion'' over soul-less plants and animals. To traditional Christians who consider an embryo to be a human being with a soul, it is wrong for scientists to use cloning to create human embryos or to destroy embryos in the course of research. 
 But there is no such taboo against humans' applying cloning and genetic engineering to ''lower'' animals and plants. As a result, Dr. Silver says, cloned animals and genetically modified crops have not become a source of major controversy for traditional Christians. Post-Christians are more worried about the flora and fauna. 
 ''Many Europeans, as well as leftists in America,'' Dr. Silver says, ''have rejected the traditional Christian God and replaced it with a post-Christian goddess of Mother Nature and a modified Christian eschatology. It isn't a coherent belief system. It might or might not incorporate New Age thinking. But deep down, there's a view that humans shouldn't be tampering with the natural world.'' 
 Hence the opposition to genetically modified food. 
 Because post-Christians do not necessarily share the biblical view of an omnipotent deity with the sole power to create souls, Dr. Silver says, they are less worried about scientists ''playing God'' in the laboratory with embryos. In places like California, residents have voted not only to allow embryo cloning for research, but also to finance it. 
 But sometimes the reverence for the natural world extends to embryos, leading to unlikely alliances. When conservative intellectuals like Francis Fukyama campaigned for Congress to ban embryo cloning, some environmental activists like Jeremy Rifkin joined them. A Green Party leader in Germany, Voker Beck, referred to cloned embryonic stem-cell research as ''veiled cannibalism.''
 Of course, many critics of biotechnology do not explicitly use religious dogma to justify their opposition. Countries like the United States, after all, are supposed to be guided by secular constitutions, not sectarian creeds. So opponents of genetically modified foods focus on the possible dangers to ecosystems and human health, and committees of scientists try to resolve the debate by conducting risk analysis. 
 The outcome hinges more on beliefs than on scientific data. A study finding that genetically modified foods are safe might reassure traditional Christians in Kansas, but it won't stop post-Christians in Stockholm from worrying about ''Frankenfood.''
 Similarly, some leading opponents of embryo research for cloning, like Leon Kass, say they are defending not Judeo-Christian beliefs, but ''human dignity.'' Dr. Kass, former chairman of the President's Council on Bioethics, says the special status of humans described in the Book of Genesis should be heeded not because of the Bible's authority, but because the message reflects a ''cosmological truth.''
 It is not so easy, though, to defend supposedly self-evident truths about human nature that are not evident to a large portion of humanity. Conservatives in the House of Representatives managed to pass a bill banning Americans from going overseas for stem-cell treatments derived through embryo cloning. But the bill didn't pass the Senate. 
 It is by no means certain that this type of stem-cell research will ever yield treatments for diseases like Parkinson's, but should that happen, it is hard to see how any Congress -- or any law -- could stop people from seeking cures. 
 The prospect of cloning children is much more distant, particularly now that researchers are becoming optimistic about obtaining stem cells without using embryos. For now, scientists throughout the world say they do not even want to contemplate reproductive cloning because of the risks to the child. And public-opinion polls do not show much support for it anywhere. 
 Even if human cloning becomes safe, there may never be much demand for it, because most people will prefer having children the old-fashioned way.
 But some people may desperately want a cloned child -- perhaps to replace one who died or to provide lifesaving bone marrow for a sibling -- and won't be dissuaded, no matter how many Christians or post-Christians try to stop them. To reach this frontier, they may just go east.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Findings column in Science Times on Tuesday, about the different views of biotechnology in Eastern and Western religions, misspelled the surname of a political economist and author who has lobbied Congress to ban embryo cloning. He is Francis Fukuyama, not Fukyama. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIKTOR KOEN (pg. F1
 F2) MAP: LAWS ON CLONING: A molecular biologist at Princeton has mapped biotechnology policies around the world. Many countries with Christian traditions ban the cloning of human embryos for scientific research, while there is less opposition in Asian countries with Hindu or Buddhist traditions. (Source: Lee M. Silver) (pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); BIOLOGY (91%); CLONING (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); HUMAN CLONING (89%); PRIMATES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (76%); ETHICS (75%); CANCER (71%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (78%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



435 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: For Want of a Proofreader, or at Least a Good One, a Reading Exam Is Lost

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
In an episode that has embarrassed the Department of Education, thousands of flawed testing booklets forced the invalidation of United States reading scores on an international exam administered without major mishap in 56 other countries. 
 The contractor that printed the faulty exams for the government is reimbursing it $500,000, government officials said yesterday. But the department admitted it had not proofread the tests.
 ''I'm really upset about this,'' said Mark Schneider, commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics at the department. ''It's a big embarrassment.''
 The problem came on a test known as the Program for International Student Assessment that allows students' proficiency to be compared with that of their international peers. It was administered to 5,600 American 15-year-olds last fall, as well as to students in the 30 member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and in 27 less developed countries. Scores are scheduled for release next month. 
 The error appeared to be the first major mishap leading to the invalidation of American scores on an international test, Dr. Schneider said. But a string of similar incidents brought flawed results on other standardized exams, including the SAT's and the state math and reading tests used to judge schools under the federal No Child Left Behind Act.
 ''We need to recognize that the testing industry is under immense pressure at a time when scores are being given immense importance,'' said Thomas Toch, who wrote a report last year detailing the problems of the American testing industry for Education Sector, an independent policy group, where he is a co-director.
 Conducted every three years, the international test focused on science literacy in 2006, but also included sections on reading and math. The problem with last fall's test was that pages in the exam booklet were assigned incorrect numbers. As a result, questions referred students to texts, said to be ''on the opposite page,'' but in reality printed on a previous page.
 Nobody -- not officials at the testing firm, within the federal government or at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development -- noticed the error until July 2007, Dr. Schneider said. Then O.E.C.D. experts concluded that the error had ruined the reading scores, and threw them out. The same error affected math and science scores to a lesser degree, and they were not invalidated.
 The contractor that printed the tests, RTI International, based in Research Triangle Park, N.C., will repay the $500,000 it received for the reading part of the test as part of its overall $2 million contract to administer the exam. The firm has 13 active contracts with the Department of Education, worth $196 million. Patrick Gibbons, a spokesman, said that the contractor took ''great care'' to provide reliable research results, but that in this case quality-control procedures failed.
 ''The testing industry is stretched,'' Dr. Schneider said in a conference call with reporters. ''There are some systemic problems, but the problem with this test was simply a copy-editing problem. A good copy editor would have caught this in 10 seconds.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); MATHEMATICS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



436 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Wages On Wall Street In First Quarter Helps Borough

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
On Wall Street, the first quarter of 2007 may wind up as one of those periods, like the height of the dot-com bubble in early 2000, that is remembered wistfully for years. 
 According to new federal data released yesterday, the average weekly pretax pay for people who worked at investment banks and brokerage houses in Manhattan was $16,918 in the first three months of this year. That was an increase of almost 25 percent from $13,594 in the first quarter of 2006.
 The bounty on Wall Street helped pull up the average weekly wage for all workers in Manhattan by 16.7 percent to $2,821, which was the highest of any large county in the country, and more than triple the average salary in any other borough of the city. The data, compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, defined a large county as having at least 75,000 workers; there were 328 large counties nationwide.
 Nationally, weekly wages for the first quarter of 2007 rose 5.1 percent compared with those of the first quarter of 2006. 
 Manhattan was the only borough where average wages rose faster than the national rate of 5.1 percent, according to the data. In the Bronx, the average paycheck increased 5.1 percent to $788 a week.
 Average wages in Manhattan surge at the start of the year, when most investment bankers, bond traders and money managers receive their annual bonus checks. Those bonuses have grown by leaps in the last few years, but that trend is expected to end this year. 
 With several of the largest investment banks absorbing huge losses in the meltdown of the mortgage market this year, many of their employees will receive significantly smaller bonuses.
 ''This may be the high-water mark,'' said Michael L. Dolfman, the regional commissioner of labor statistics. In comparing the first quarter of 2007 with the first quarter of 2006, Mr. Dolfman said that about 15 percent of the nationwide increase in pay went to those working in Manhattan.
 The recent low came toward the end of the recession that was exacerbated by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. In the first quarter of 2003, the average weekly wage for all workers in Manhattan was $1,858, while on Wall Street it was $7,051. Since then, Wall Street pay has more than doubled, accounting for much of the 52 percent increase for all workers in the borough.
 The data proves again that when it comes to pay, Wall Street makes Manhattan an island unto itself. The average paycheck there was more than 40 percent larger than in Fairfield County, Conn., which had the second-highest average, $1,979 a week. 
 Only one large county, Trumbull County, Ohio, recorded a bigger increase than Manhattan. In the first quarter of 2007, the average weekly pay in Trumbull County was 22 percent higher than in the first quarter of 2006. 
 Among the other boroughs, none ranked among the top 100 counties in rate of pay, and only the Bronx ranked in the top 100 in rate of increase, at 78th. All of the boroughs, except the Bronx, added jobs at a faster pace than the national pace of 1.4 percent.
 Still, the typical job in each borough other than Manhattan paid less than the American average of $885 a week. The average weekly paycheck in Queens was $831, while it was $742 in Brooklyn and $733 on Staten Island.

GRAPHIC: CHART: High Pay on Wall Street: Wall Street's average weekly wage in the first quarter has tripled over the last 10 years, far outpacing pay in other industries in Manhattan. Chart shows line graph for: Average weekly wage in Manhattan First quarter 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (92%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); BOND MARKETS (65%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



437 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Options Narrowing as Britain Tries to Stabilize Bank

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Northern Rock, the troubled regional mortgage lender, said on Monday that it had received a number of disappointing takeover proposals, increasing the pressure on the British government to either find a solution or consider nationalizing the bank.
 The government has lent more than $:20 billion ($40 billion) over the last two months to secure deposits at Northern Rock, many of them pension savings, and to end the first run on a bank in the country since 1866. But it is coming under increasing pressure to ease the burden on taxpayers while avoiding job losses.
 ''If a significant proportion of the government money is lost, it will be extremely bad for the government and undermine Labor's economic competence,'' said Peter Kellner, president of the political polling institute YouGov in London. ''It may not matter for the greater public what will happen, but the issue is, Can the government get that money back.'' 
 Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England; Alistair Darling, chancellor of the Exchequer; and Callum McCarthy, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, have all faced criticism about how they have handled the Northern Rock situation. The trouble began when the bank could no longer raise enough money after the turmoil in the United States subprime mortgage market pushed up credit costs.
 Now that it has become clear that no potential bidder is able or willing to refinance the entire sum lent by the Bank of England, the government is faced with the choice of selling the loan at a discount or nationalizing the bank, some analysts said.
 The Treasury said Monday that no bidder for Northern Rock should assume that the current Bank of England loan arrangement would be extended beyond February or that the government would favor the bid that required the least government money. But with proposals coming in ''materially below the market price,'' the choice could be difficult.
 The government has already warned shareholders that they might lose, no matter what offer is accepted. Northern Rock shares dropped 22 percent, to $:1, on Monday in London.
 The market value of the bank fell 55 percent in two days in September, when it announced it was in trouble.
 Employees and taxpayers are also concerned. While the government will continue to guarantee the savings deposits of Northern Rock's customers, a sale or liquidation of Northern Rock could lead to job losses in the Northeast, one of the poorer regions of the country and the home to many supporters of the Labor government.
 A sale might help save some jobs, but that would risk alienating taxpayers, who might have to continue supporting the business, according to a memorandum by the investment banks managing the sale that was leaked to the media last week. Declared bidders include the private equity firm J. C. Flowers & Company; Richard Branson of the Virgin Group, who hopes to integrate Northern Rock into the Virgin Money brand; the private equity company Cerberus; and Olivant Advisers of London.
 ''It will be really tricky,'' said Patrick Dunleavy, a professor of government and public policy at the London School of Economics. ''On the one hand you don't want to spend billions and play into the hands of private capitalism. On the other hand, you don't want to be accused by the opposition of socialist actions if you nationalize it.''
 In addition, the government may face regulatory restrictions on its decision. The treasury said Monday that money supplied to Northern Rock so far would be regarded as state aid under European Union law but that any further help would need the approval of the European Commission.
 Northern Rock did not say which companies had made takeover proposals, but it said it had received two types of offers: those that would include an investment in the company by injection of assets and new capital and those that would include acquisitions of part of the business. 
 Northern Rock shareholders, including the hedge fund SRM Global, are expected to tell the bank's management later this week what proposal they prefer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Northern Rock bank branch in central London. The government has lent the bank more than $:20 billion to secure deposits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDMOND TERAKOPIAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); POLITICS (69%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%)

COMPANY: NORTHERN ROCK PLC (92%); JC FLOWERS & CO LLC (80%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (58%); ALISTAIR DARLING (53%); RICHARD BRANSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



438 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: On the Job, Everywhere

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
One challenge of the work-anywhere lifestyle is that not everywhere is designed for people who need to do work.
 That is why you see women in skirts sitting awkwardly on the carpet at an airport gate, balancing laptops plugged in to precious few outlets. Or hear about grown men building the adult equivalent of a pillow fort to fashion a makeshift desk on a hotel bed.
 But hotels and airports are gradually catching on to the fact that mobile workers need more help getting their jobs done on the road. Hotels that cater to laptop-toting travelers are scrambling to add electrical outlets in easy-to-reach places, install better task lighting and design chairs with flat armrests that can double as desks. 
 They are putting desks on casters so the desks can be wheeled in view of the television or even extend over the bed. And perhaps most important to business travelers, some hotel chains are installing technology to make their Internet service more reliable or adding employees to offer better support when guests call for help.
 Airports have not made as many changes, though some are adding kiosks where passengers can charge gadgets, check e-mail messages or buy a flash drive to replace one they forgot.
 Not that airports and hotels can be expected to offer the same services as a corporate headquarters, but many business travelers would welcome an increased focus on work-related tasks.
 ''There's stuff they can do, stuff they should do and then things that are totally outside their control,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, an analyst with Forrester Research in San Francisco, adding that reliable Internet access is the No. 1 amenity business travelers demand.
 ''The tech support issue is something hotels need to do a better job with,'' he said. ''If you check into a five-star hotel and have to wait 20 minutes to talk to someone about a tech support problem and that person isn't able to help you, that reflects poorly on the hotel.''
 With such situations in mind, the Hilton Hotels Corporation is bringing its technology support in-house, hiring about 40 employees to handle calls from guests at the 215 hotels that have already converted to its ''Stay Connected @ Hilton'' program, which also involves hardware and network upgrades. The goal is to have all of the North American hotels of Hilton participate by the end of next year.
 ''No one understands servicing our guests as well as our employees,'' said David Byerly, Hilton's senior director for global support, explaining that allowing hotels to choose their vendors had led to inconsistent service. 
 The W hotel chain of Starwood Hotels and Resorts is working with the Geek Squad at Best Buy to handle guest technology problems its own employees cannot fix, and Marriott International is gradually replacing the cable modems in rooms with newer boxes that can handle more data with fewer glitches.
 Even the lowly electrical outlet is getting a lot of attention these days.
 ''No one wants to crawl around on the floor anymore looking for plugs,'' said Ross A. Klein, president of the Starwood Luxury Brands Group. Starwood plans to install ''jack packs'' in or near the desks in its W and Aloft hotels.
 Marriott is also incorporating outlets into its desks, headboards and nightstand lamps, as well as installing task lighting nearby -- recognizing that many travelers end up working on their computers in bed.
 John Wolf, a Marriott spokesman, said the company stumbled on another revelation that ultimately led to creating movable desks for its Courtyard by Marriott and TownePlace Suites brands. 
 ''When we tested our new bedding, we discovered people were taking the decorative pillows and they were using them to essentially nestle in and pull out their laptop,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''They were using the pillows to create a desk.''
 The modern habit of working everywhere except in a chair facing a traditional desk has led to some creative solutions in the hospitality industry.
 The Holiday Inn Express Fifth Avenue on 45th Street near Fifth Avenue in Manhattan provides guests with a lap desk so they can work in bed, an amenity that is also offered by Hampton Inn hotels.
 InterContinental created an Adirondack-style chair for its Hotel Indigo chain that features flat oversize arms that can balance a laptop on one side and a drink or meal on the other. And Wyndham Hotels has developed its own upholstered ''smart chair'' that offers similar flat surfaces that pivot on the arms, as well as outlets for power and Internet access built into the chair.
 Although airports are generally behind hotels in the amenity department, some services are popping up around the concourse that suggest a greater awareness of the mobile office challenges of business travelers.
 Samsung, for instance, is sponsoring dozens of electronic charging stations in Dallas-Fort Worth, John F. Kennedy and Los Angeles International Airports, and Southwest Airlines has added more power outlets and work-friendly seating as part of its gate area redesign at Love Field in Dallas.
 At these power stations, passengers can usually charge their gadgets free, and at Dallas-Fort Worth there are even a few kiosks for checking e-mail messages without paying a fee.
 Still, Kenneth Buchanan, executive vice president for revenue management at Dallas-Fort Worth, said the airport's research had shown that business travelers are willing to pay for secure, reliable Internet access. (The entire airport has Wi-Fi coverage through a partnership with T-Mobile; logging on costs $9.99 for 24 hours.)
 Dallas-Fort Worth also offers vending machines that sell noise-canceling headphones, power cords and other devices, and it plans to modernize its gate areas to offer more power outlets near the seats -- a big project, Mr. Buchanan said, given the airport's size and age. 
 ''Thirty-five years ago, you didn't have the mobile electronics you do now,'' he explained. ''We have to go back and address what the consumer needs are today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Travelers use their laptops at a power station in the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (86%); COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT REPAIR (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (73%); RESORTS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); FLASH DRIVES (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%)

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (85%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (50%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); HOT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



439 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: To Resolve Strike, Mayor Prefers a Backstage Role

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
To some, the situation seems dire: most of Broadway staying dark as the bustling holiday season begins, restaurants losing customers at a critical money-making time and the striking stagehands trudging picket lines in the bitter cold. 
 But to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has adopted his familiar ''What, me worry?'' stance in this latest labor dispute, things do not look all that bad.
 ''In the overall grand scheme of things, it's hard to come up with a number that would hurt this city,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday at a news conference in Grand Central Terminal, answering questions about the strike's economic impact. ''I think what it hurts more is our reputation, and it's the psychic things rather than dollars. Our hotels will still be full, our restaurants will still be full, mass transit will still be going along.'' 
 Unlike some of his predecessors, Mr. Bloomberg has not generally favored using the bully pulpit in labor conflicts to take sides or bludgeon parties into resolving their differences. With the notable exceptions of disputes with transit workers in 2002 and 2005, in which he used threats, Mr. Bloomberg has mostly preferred to help midwife solutions in private.
 Thus far, that approach, coupled with behind-the-scenes lobbying by the mayor and his aides for both sides to resume negotiations, has served him well. 
 There has not yet been a groundswell of blame for the mayor, with most of the major groups affected by the strike saying it is a struggle between private entities over which Mr. Bloomberg has little control. But that could change, some experts say, if the strike stretches on for weeks and Mr. Bloomberg's publicly hands-off manner begins to seem merely inert.
 ''If Broadway is really put on long-term ice and he is seen as having failed to aggressively deal with this, there could be some political pressure,'' said Joshua B. Freeman, a labor historian at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. 
 But, Professor Freeman said, because City Hall is not as closely associated with the theaters and their employees as it is with, for instance, the transit union, ''he doesn't have as partisan an interest as he does in those kinds of issues.''
 In addition, although Mr. Bloomberg has been careful to express concern for the industry, its related businesses and those who work for them, aides say the city is more insulated from the economic fallout from the strike than it was during the strike by Broadway musicians in 2003, when tourism numbers were lower.
 For the moment, government officials and some of the people affected by the strike say the only solution lies with the union and the producers.
 ''I don't see how anybody can do anything besides the producers and the union,'' said Chuck Hunt, a spokesman for the New York State Restaurant Association, a trade group, adding that the mayor had made ''a very good effort.''
 Luis Nunez, president of the Latino Restaurant Association, which represents 4,000 establishments, also praised Mr. Bloomberg, saying that if anything, state officials -- including Gov. Eliot Spitzer; Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader; and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver -- should be taking a more active role.
 ''The restaurants don't deserve to be hit the way they are being hit,'' he said, adding that income was down 55 percent in the theater district. ''It's just killing the business.''
 But Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist for the National Restaurant Association, disagreed.
 ''It's been the mayor's traditional perspective to kind of let things move on their own inertia,'' he said. ''But in this case, the reverberations are so significant that he should be taking a more active role.''
 Others pointed to Mr. Bloomberg's successful, if low-key, intervention in the short-lived musicians' strike, when the city's overall economic standing was far more precarious.
 ''I think the mayor has done the right thing in offering to help,'' said City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, who represents the theater district and is a potential candidate for mayor in 2009. ''The mayor's been very clear that he's there to help. It's help that I wish people would heed because it's help that actually brought resolution during the musicians' strike, but that's all the mayor can do, is stand at the ready.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Few have blamed Mayor Bloomberg for not ending the strike.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); THEATER (78%); CITIES (77%); POLITICS (72%); LOBBYING (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); HISTORY (61%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



440 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Democrats Focus on Economy and Experience

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy reported from Knoxville, Iowa, and Jeff Zeleny from Fort Dodge, Iowa.

DATELINE: KNOXVILLE, Iowa, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Gloomy news about the economy formed a backdrop for the leading Democratic presidential candidates Monday as they intensified their fight over which one had the best experience to lead the nation.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton argued that she would be the most capable steward of the economy and suggested that a rival, Senator Barack Obama, would need ''on-the-job training'' that the nation could not afford after ''eight years of neglect.''
 Mr. Obama pushed back swiftly and with humor, minimizing Mrs. Clinton's experience level by pointing out that being first lady was not akin to being Treasury secretary. 
 And the third leading candidate in Iowa, John Edwards of North Carolina, joined the fray. He tweaked Mrs. Clinton's assertion that she is an agent of change, saying she had not fought hard enough to change lobbying rules or the Bush administration's policy on Iraq and Iran.
 Six weeks remain until the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3. Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards were among the Democratic candidates who campaigned across the state Monday, working to win over an unusually large share of undecided voters.
 After weeks of sparring about foreign policy, health care and leadership vision, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama turned to the economy as a new proxy for their fight over experience.
 Mrs. Clinton, of New York, filled her speech with downbeat economic statistics and warnings about rising heating bills as winter approached. Mr. Obama, of Illinois, zeroed in on ways to lower the costs of attending a community college, which have a strong presence in Iowa.
 The two of them, along with Mr. Edwards, are in a near-daily battle to find an issue or message that allows them to break ahead of the Democratic pack in the state. 
 Mrs. Clinton did not criticize Mr. Obama by name; she rarely does. But aides said she was referring to him when she said that Americans need ''a president who understands the magnitude and complexity of the challenges we face.''
 ''There is one job we can't afford on-the-job training for -- that's the job of our next president,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Knoxville, Iowa. ''That could be the costliest job training in history. Every day that's spent learning the ropes is another day of rising costs, mounting deficits and growing anxiety for our families. And they cannot afford to keep waiting.''
 Another economic flash point was Social Security. Mrs. Clinton accused Mr. Obama, Mr. Edwards and other rivals of committing themselves -- and, by extension, the Democratic Party -- to huge tax increases by pressing for ways to ensure the solvency of the program. 
 While Mr. Obama has offered specifics, like raising the level of income subject to Social Security taxes, Mrs. Clinton has proposed a bipartisan commission to study the issue and to spare either party the blame for any changes in benefits.
 ''We don't need more Republican scare tactics about a Social Security crisis,'' Mrs. Clinton said Monday in Iowa, ''and we don't need a trillion dollar tax increase.''
 Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards have dismissed suggestions that they are trying to scare the public and have criticized Mrs. Clinton for not explaining how she would shore up the program.
 At a news conference before his community college event in Fort Dodge, Mr. Obama was asked to respond to Mrs. Clinton's comments about how the next president could not afford to receive on-the-job training. Mr. Obama said he was ''happy to compare my experiences to hers when it comes to the economy.''
 ''My understanding was that she wasn't Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, so I don't know exactly what experiences she's claiming,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I think she's a capable person. She's been a senator, like I have. But rather than just assert experience, if she has specific differences with me with respect to economic policy, I'm happy to have those debates.''
 Beyond warning about the unsteady state of the economy, Mrs. Clinton also called for doubling the amount of federal housing aid for counseling people who face foreclosures and mortgage crises, and increasing emergency energy assistance to help an additional one million families pay their bills.
 Mr. Obama, meanwhile, called for creating a $4,000 tax credit for low- and middle-class Americans to attend community colleges, which he said would essentially make the education free. He also said he would simplify the application process for financial aid by replacing complicated forms with a box to check on tax forms. 
 Mrs. Clinton also criticized the Republican presidential field but not by name.
 ''In short, they see eight years of Bush economics and say, 'Why not eight more?' '' Mrs. Clinton said. ''Well, here's my response to that: You've got until Jan. 20, 2009, and not another day more,'' referring to Inauguration Day.
 The Republican National Committee responded by suggesting that Mrs. Clinton supported huge increases in the federal budget.
 ''We are still waiting to hear how much she is going to raise taxes on hard-working families to subsidize over $770 billion in new government spending,'' said Danny Diaz, a Republican National Committee spokesman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Democratic presidential hopefuls sparred yesterday in Iowa. Hillary Rodham Clinton, above in Waterloo, suggested that Barack Obama would require ''on-the-job training.'' Mr. Obama, at the top in Clarion, minimized her experience. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



441 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: A Statistical Tie in Iowa

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
It is increasingly evident that Iowa is not going to be as easy terrain for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as her campaign had hoped. Mrs. Clinton and Senator Barack Obama are in a tough fight in that state, as a Washington Post/ABC News poll of Iowa Democrats released yesterday seems to show. 
 In case there are any doubts, Mrs. Clinton's campaign has poured resources into Iowa, and she plans to beef up her campaign schedule there leading up to the Jan. 3 caucuses.
 The poll showed a statistical tie, with Mr. Obama at 30 percent and Mrs. Clinton at 26 percent among likely Democratic caucusgoers; the margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points. John Edwards trailed with 22 percent. 
 Iowa is a tough place to poll -- it is hard to figure out who is going to caucus, especially in a year when the campaigns are trying hard to recruit first-time voters -- and Iowans tend to make their decisions late. At the same time, Iowa has a reputation as a giant-killer, or at least a front-runner-killer, so suggestions of anxiety at Mrs. Clinton's Iowa headquarters should come as no surprise.
 In recent days, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have been even more pointed in their comments, and yesterday Mrs. Clinton did it again, tearing into -- you guessed it -- Mr. Obama in a speech, saying he did not have the experience to manage a troubled economy. ADAM NAGOURNEY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (75%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



442 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Cools, World Demand Helps H.P. Outpace Rivals

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Buoyed by its heavy international presence, Hewlett-Packard appears to have sidestepped the softening demand from corporations inside the United States for new technology.
 In recent weeks, companies including Cisco, I.B.M. and Network Appliances have warned that American corporations are tightening their purse strings when it comes to technology spending. On Monday, Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest technology company, not only reported strong fourth-quarter net profit and sales, but also predicted further growth in the months ahead. 
 In conference calls with reporters and industry analysts, Mark V. Hurd, the chief executive, declined to answer directly whether H.P. is seeing softening in demand among corporate customers in the United States. Over all, he said, ''we're seeing fairly steady demand.'' 
 He also said: ''I don't want to be confused with an economist in any way, shape or form.'' 
 Hewlett-Packard, he also noted, does not depend on the financial industry for a significant portion of its sales.
 Wall Street analysts said that the results, which beat their projections, reflected the diversity of H.P.'s business geographically and in terms of its reliance on selling to consumers, not just corporations. 
 ''This is very different from what we heard from I.B.M. and Cisco, in particular,'' said Shaw Wu, an analyst with American Technology Research. ''H.P. continues to execute in this very tough environment. The key reason is that they're very global.''
 Mr. Hurd, known for giving conservative forecasts to analysts, predicted revenue for 2008 would rise about 7 percent to about $111.5 billion. The new forecast exceeded industry analysts' predictions. 
 For H.P.'s fourth quarter, ended Oct. 31, the company reported revenue of $28.3 billion, and net income of $2.8 billion, or 86 cents a share, a figure that does not include one-time charges.
 In the fourth quarter a year ago, H.P. reported net income of $1.9 billion, or 68 cents a share, and revenue of $24.55 billion. For its full fiscal 2007, H.P. reported revenue of $104.3 billion and net income of $8 billion, or $2.93 a share, excluding one-time charges.
 A. M. Sacconaghi, an industry analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, called the fourth-quarter and fiscal 2007 earnings ''very solid,'' adding: ''They beat handily and raised guidance, which investors always cheer.''
 The company's shares, which fell with the overall market Monday during regular trading, rose 86 cents in after-hours trading to close at $50.30. The company also announced a plan to buy back $8 billion of its shares.
 Unlike many technology companies -- which do roughly 60 percent of their business domestically -- H.P. does around 65 percent overseas, industry analysts said. Dell, its chief competitor, does only about 35 percent of its business internationally, Mr. Wu said. 
 Despite its recent success, the question for a company as large as H.P. is where can it find opportunities that will satisfy investors' interest in seeing continued growth at a rapid pace. Mr. Hurd has frequently warned analysts that the law of large numbers makes it increasingly difficult for the company to add $7 billion to $8 billion in new revenue each year.
 Mr. Hurd said in a conference call with Wall Street analysts that he would continue to seek businesses with growth potential, but that he would also keep pursuing a program of cost cuts and efficiency improvements and would then reallocate resources to the growth sectors.
 At the two largest individual business divisions, sales rose 30 percent, to $10.1 billion, in the personal systems group, which sells PCs to consumers and corporations, but they were up only 4 percent, to $7.6 billion, in the imaging and printing group.
 ''PC's continued their torrid success,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''The only mild disappointment was in the imaging and printing group.''
 The performance in computers could underscore continued trouble for Dell, H.P.'s chief competitor, which reports its financial results next week. Sales of H.P. notebook computers rose 49 percent in the fourth quarter, Mr. Hurd said. 
 While Mr. Hurd declined to discuss the relative performance of corporations in the United States, H.P. did see more modest growth in North America in the fourth quarter than it did in its overseas markets. 
 Excluding currency effects, growth in North America was 10 percent, to $11.9 billion, compared with the period a year ago. Sales grew 19 percent in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, to $11.6 billion, and in the Asia-Pacific market they were up 20 percent, to $4.8 billion.
 H.P. estimated that for its first quarter of 2008, sales would be $27.4 billion to $27.5 billion, and net income would reach 80 cents a share, not including one-time charges.
 Wall Street analysts were hoping H.P. would shed more light on overall economic conditions and on the spending patterns of American companies.
 ''The investment community is anxious about what's happening in large corporate I.T. spending,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''Even if it's limited now to U.S. financial services companies, it could spread.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a Hewlett-Packard factory in Houston where servers and data storage units are produced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY F. CARTER SMITH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (62%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%); HPQ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (62%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



443 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: In Thanksgiving Speech, Bush Urges Americans to Give Back

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: CHARLES CITY, Va., Nov. 19 

 BODY:
In a reflective mood as he looks toward his final year in office, President Bush delivered his first official Thanksgiving speech Monday, urging Americans to ''show their thanks by giving back'' and to remember that ''our nation's greatest strength is the decency and compassion of our people.'' 
 For seven years, Mr. Bush has commemorated Thanksgiving with the presidential tradition of pardoning a turkey, a 60-year tradition that he planned to continue Tuesday in the Rose Garden. But this year, the White House hoped to show a more contemplative side of Mr. Bush, who, his aides say, has been struck by the goodness of the many ordinary Americans he meets during his travels.
 So Monday, the president visited a food bank in Richmond, Va., and then traveled here, to Berkeley Plantation on the banks of the James River. It claims to be the home of the nation's ''first official Thanksgiving,'' two years before the Pilgrims' harvest celebration in Massachusetts.
 On Dec. 4, 1619, a band of English settlers arrived at the plantation and, upon reviewing orders that the day of their arrival should be ''yearly and perpetually kept holy as a day of Thanksgiving to Almighty God,'' dropped to their knees in prayer.
 After recounting the Berkeley story, Mr. Bush ticked off the reasons Americans had to be thankful, including ''farmers and ranchers who provide us with abundant food,'' ''entrepreneurs who create new jobs'' and ''devoted teachers who prepare our children for the opportunities of tomorrow.'' He also spoke about the times that ''America has fallen short'' of its ideals, noting that ''for many years, slaves were held against their will here at Berkeley and other plantations -- and their bondage is a shameful chapter in our nation's history.''
 Mr. Bush went on to praise ''Americans who serve a cause larger than themselves,'' not only the military but also people like Liviu Librescu, the Virginia Tech professor who died this spring blocking a gunman from entering his classroom, and Jeremy Hernandez, who broke open the back door of a school bus to lead children to safety in August when the Minneapolis bridge they were traveling on collapsed.
 It was a call to action, in a sense, from a president whose first instinct after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was to ask the public for ''continued participation and confidence in the American economy,'' a request that has been widely interpreted as advice to go shopping.
 By contrast, Mr. Bush on Monday asked Americans to consider the ''many ways to spread hope this holiday: volunteer in a shelter, mentor a child, help an elderly neighbor, say thanks to one who wears the nation's uniform.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush speaking yesterday with two people in colonial costume at Berkeley Plantation in Charles City, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); CHILDREN (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); HISTORY (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); TERRORISM (60%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007



444 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-12
 U.N. to Revise Estimates of H.I.V. Infections
The United Nations' AIDS-fighting agency plans to issue a report acknowledging that it overestimated the size of the epidemic and that new infections with the deadly virus have been dropping each year since the epidemic peaked in the late 1990s.A1
 Baghdad Starts to Exhale 
 With security improvements in most Baghdad neighborhoods and fear no longer controlling residents' every action, people are moving with freedom around much of the capital for the first time in two years. A1 
 The Iraqi military detained 43 people in a convoy for a contractor with the United States military after an 18-year-old female was shot in central Baghdad. A10 
 Prosecutors issued grand jury subpoenas to some of the Blackwater employees present at a Sept. 16 shooting episode in Baghdad in which the company's personnel killed 17 Iraqi civilians, lawyers and officials said. A10 
 Crisis Worsening in Somalia
 The worst humanitarian crisis in Africa may be unfolding in Somalia, where 200,000 people have fled from violence in Mogadishu and are living in camps that are running out of food. A1
 Bangladesh Toll Tops 3,000
 The number of people left dead after the powerful cyclone that swept through Bangladesh rose to more than 3,000 today, the government said. A10 
 Musharraf Close to New Term
 Pakistan's Supreme Court dismissed the main challenges to the re-election of the president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, all but ensuring his confirmation to another term. A12 
 Six Die in Afghan Blast
 A provincial governor in southwestern Afghanistan narrowly escaped a suicide attack, but his 25-year-old son and five of his bodyguards were killed in the blast, officials said. A10 
 NATIONALA14-21 
 Makeup of City's Council Displays the Shift in Race
 In one of the clearest signs of Hurricane Katrina's lasting demographic impact, the New Orleans City Council is about to have a white majority for the first time in more than two decades, pointing up the storm's displacement of thousands of residents, mostly black. A14 
 Candidates Debate Economy
 Gloomy news about the economy formed a backdrop for the three leading Democratic presidential candidates as they intensified their fight over who among them has the best experience to lead the nation. A20 
 Debate Sites Are Chosen
 The Commission on Presidential Debates has picked Oxford, Miss.; St. Louis; Nashville; and Hempstead, N.Y., as the sites of three presidential and one vice presidential debates in 2008. A20 
 Smithsonian Fund-Raising
 The Smithsonian Institution's Board of Regents voted to undertake a major capital campaign to help raise the $2.5 billion needed to upgrade and repair its buildings. It is the first large-scale private fund-raising effort in the organization's history. A17 
 EDUCATION
 Tenured Professors in Decline
 Professors with tenure or who are on a tenure track are now a distinct minority on America's campuses, as the ranks of part-time instructors and professors hired on a contract have swelled, according to federal figures analyzed by the American Association of University Professors. A1
 U.S. Exams Were Flawed
 In an episode that has embarrassed the federal Department of Education, thousands of flawed testing booklets forced the invalidation of American reading scores on an international exam administered without major mishap in 56 other countries. A14 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 Big Holiday Losses Loom In Broadway Strike
 After strike talks between the Broadway producers' league and the stagehands' union unexpectedly broke down, the quick return to work that many had anticipated turned into a gloomy prospect of absent paychecks and huge losses during the lucrative holiday season. A1 
 Bounty on Wall Street
 The average weekly pretax pay for people who worked at investment banks and brokerage houses in Manhattan was $16,918 in the first three months of this year, an increase of almost 25 percent. B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-11 
 Dow Falls 200 Points
 Stock markets plummeted after a fresh round of questions about Citigroup and the financial sector. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 200 points, hitting its lowest close since the depth of this summer's subprime crisis. C1 
 Hewlett's Sales Are Up
 Technology companies have warned that American corporations are tightening their purse strings when it comes to technology spending. But Hewlett-Packard reported fourth-quarter sales and earnings that comfortably exceeded last year's performance. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 SCIENCE TIMESF1-8
 The Necessity of Denial
 Recent studies from fields as diverse as psychology and anthropology suggest that the ability to look the other way, while potentially destructive, is also critically important to forming close relationships. And it is these highly evolved abilities, research suggests, that provide the foundation for forgiveness. F1
 Health & FitnessD5
 SPORTSTUESDAYD1-6
 Carr Resigns From Michigan
 Lloyd Carr announced his retirement as Michigan's head coach today, ending a 13-year run that included a national championship and five Big Ten titles. C16 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: The scientists speak; another very scary germ; raising children behind bars; A subway for 2nd Avenue (really).
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (84%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HURRICANES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); VIRUSES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); LAWYERS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); GRAND JURY (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); SUBPOENAS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); CITIES (62%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (84%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); SOMALIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



445 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 787 words

 BODY:
FORESEEING A SLOWDOWN
 The Federal Reserve expects economic growth to slow sharply next year, and policy makers there are worried that even this forecast may prove too optimistic, according to an assessment released by the central bank. 
 Freddie Mac posted a $2 billion loss for the third quarter, underscoring the continuing turmoil in the housing industry. Other developments reinforced the sense that conditions would not improve soon. [C1.] 
 MEET YOU AT THE CAROUSEL? 
 Airlines are fond of saying that they have a success rate of more than 99 percent in getting luggage to its destination along with its owner. And every big airline has stepped up efforts to improve its operations. But the baggage problem is getting worse. [A1.] 
 Delays are so bad at Kennedy International Airport this year that ''it's backing up the whole country,'' said an airline consultant. Coming up with longer-term solutions may be as hard as getting a meal on a domestic flight, experts say. [B1.] 
 FEARING A LONG STRIKE As striking Hollywood screenwriters and their employers prepare to resume talks next Monday, the prospect of a protracted walkout poses a particular threat for writers. [C1.] 
 WHY A FRIEND IS LIKE A COOKIE Pepperidge Farm is entering the increasingly popular field known as social media with a campaign called ''Connecting through cookies'' and a Web site devoted to networking. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.] 
 A DRUG TRIAL ON TRIAL Merck and Schering-Plough said they would publish a portion of the results -- but not the entire set of data -- from a long-awaited trial of their cholesterol-lowering drugs Zetia and Vytorin. Cardiologist said the decision would do little to quell concerns about the trial and the drugs. [C1.] 
 TARIFFS ARE REJECTED A federal trade panel ruled against the American glossy paper industry's request for tariffs on imported Chinese paper. The decision threw out duties that had been authorized by the Bush administration. [C4.] 
 BLACKROCK TO MANAGE FUND BlackRock, the big investment firm, is expected to be the main asset manager for a $75 billion fund being created by three large banks to help shore up the market for asset-backed securities, a person briefed on the situation said. [C7.] 
 CHARITY FROM HIGH EARNERSGoldman Sachs said its partners would be strongly encouraged to donate a fixed amount of their compensation to a new philanthropy fund that aims to reach $1 billion over the next few years. [C4.] 
 A RULING AGAINST T-MOBILE
 A German court ruled that T-Mobile, the mobile phone operator with an exclusive deal to sell the AppleiPhone in that country, could not require buyers to enter into a 24-month contract. [C4.] 
 ERICSSON LOWERS FORECAST 
 Ericsson, the Swedish telecommunications giant, offered a downbeat outlook for fourth-quarter sales, sending its shares tumbling. [C5.] 
 DIVISIONS IN ASIA TRADE PACT Southeast Asian leaders signed a charter in Singapore that was drafted as a watershed document to bind the region together in a European-style economic community, but the pact has instead exposed the sharp divisions over one of its members, Myanmar. [A6.] 
 APARTMENT COMPLEXES SURGE In the New Orleans rental housing market, the multifamily sector is more active than it has ever been, with buildings providing mixed-income housing. [C6.] 
 WAITING FOR A REBIRTH Some local businesses in New Rochelle, N.Y., are betting that a high-end condominium complex developed by Donald J. Trump will bring about the city's long-awaited renaissance. So far, though, there are few signs of economic vitality. [C6.] 
 TOP SECRET (NOT REALLY) Retailers used to denounce the renegade Web sites that prematurely disclose leaked copies of discount-filled advertisements for the day after Thanksgiving. But now many chains have handed over their circulars to the Web sites. [C1.] 
 TARGET PROFIT FALLS The retailer Target reported a 4 percent drop in third-quarter profit, a rare miss for a company that more often surprises shareholders with positive news. The company said an unseasonably warm fall hurt sales of clothing and home items. The results missed Wall Street expectations, and Target shares dropped 4 percent. [C5.] 
 DAY OF SWINGS FINISHES HIGHER Wall Street finished an extremely volatile session mostly higher after investors decided to interpret comments from the Federal Reserve as suggesting another interest rate cut. [C9.] 
 BARNES & NOBLE HAS A PROFIT Barnes & Noble raised its earnings outlook after swinging to a third-quarter profit on sales of new releases. Losses widened in the same period at its rival, the Borders Group, which was hurt by charges related to the sale of its subsidiaries in Britain and Ireland. [C5.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); STRIKES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); PAPER & PACKAGING (67%); WRITERS (67%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (62%); PAPER MFG (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (50%)

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (83%); ERIC.A (STO) (83%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



446 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: After the Meal, the Credit Card Scanner Is Served

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE waiter gives you the bill. You check it and then, right at the table, you swipe your credit card in a portable device. A receipt pops out, you sign it, and you are on your way. 
 These wireless handheld devices, which save time and are meant to cut down on fraud, have been used in European restaurants for the past 10 years. They were introduced in the United States about two years ago, and they are just inching into use. 
 In New York next month, Vento Trattoria, part of the B.R. Guest restaurant group, will install a system for processing credit cards at the table. It will be a pilot program, but the company's president, Stephen Hanson, is eager to have it in place. 
 ''Ninety percent of my business is credit cards, and processing them takes too many steps,'' he said. ''Even if it costs money up front you'd save time and motion.''
 The devices look like calculators and are similar to the credit card gadgets at supermarket checkout counters. They are made by several companies, including VeriFone in San Jose, Calif., whose systems and equipment for credit card transactions are in many American restaurants. 
 Another company, Cyndigo, based in Fullerton, Calif., has developed a portable credit card scanner not much larger than a BlackBerry that fits neatly into a restaurant check holder.
 Grant Drummond, the director of marketing communications for Ingenico in Toronto, which has been selling the systems in Europe and Canada, said that about 2,000 American restaurants are now using his company's system, mainly chain restaurants and places on the West Coast. 
 Pay-at-table systems quickly gained acceptance in Europe, said Douglas Bergeron, the chairman of VeriFone, because the incidence of credit card fraud and identity theft was greater than in the United States.
 ''A restaurant is the only remaining place in the retail economy where the card disappears, where you actually hand it over and the transaction is not processed right in front of you,'' he said. ''There is an opportunity for it to be copied and skimmed.'' 
 Those who have used the systems in Europe may wonder why it has taken so long for them to show up here. 
 Henry Helgeson, the president of Merchant Warehouse in Boston, which sells credit card systems, said restaurant owners are typically cautious. ''They're waiting to see if it works before they make a big leap,'' he said. 
 A number of midprice restaurant chains are experimenting with them, a process that can take months. On Long Island, Four Food Studio in Melville has been using the system for about a month. They have four units for 13 waiters and plan to add more.
 ''Our guests say it gives them peace of mind, being able to pay the check without giving up their credit cards so there is no opportunity for fraud and identity theft,'' said Jay Grossman, one of the owners. ''It speeds thing up, too. There has been complete acceptance; after all, we're in the world of BlackBerrys and iPods.'' 
 Roger Berkowitz, the president of Legal Sea Foods, which has more than 30 restaurants along the East Coast, has been using the equipment in some of his restaurants for about a year. 
 ''It takes training but it doesn't take long for people to be comfortable with it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Drummond of Ingenico said that pay-at-table represented a ''cultural shift,'' with restaurateurs fearing that using the devices may appear to rush the customer. Some owners of high-end restaurants in New York seemed wary. Drew Nieporent, an owner of the Myriad Restaurant Group, said he thought the gadgets were not ''classy.''
 Danny Meyer, the chief executive of the Union Square Hospitality Group, noted that a tip, which is included as an automatic service charge in Europe, can be a problem. 
 ''They are time-savers and probably inevitable,'' he said of the devices. ''But here people might be uncomfortable having the waiter lurking right there while the host calculates the tip.''
 Several companies that provide these systems have said that preliminary studies show that tips increase when these systems are put in place. 
 The units cost about $500 each; integrating them into a restaurant's computer system costs extra. But faster payment should allow tables to be cleared sooner, so more people can be served. The devices also allow the use of debit cards that require a PIN code, which cost restaurants about a third less than a standard credit card charge. 
 In the next few years, according to executives in the credit card processing business, credit cards will have chips that require a PIN code for many transactions. Then the time for handheld devices may finally come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TIME SAVER: At Four Food Studio in Melville, N.Y., a customer signs his check while the waitress stands by, holding a portable credit card processor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%)

COMPANY: INGENICO SA (54%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: ING (PAR) (54%); RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



447 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: City Police Stop Whites Equally But Frisk Them Less, a Study Finds

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Whites and members of minorities have a roughly equal chance of being stopped by police officers and questioned on the street in New York City. But officers are more likely to frisk, search, arrest or give summonses to black or Hispanic people -- or to use force against them -- according to a study released yesterday.
 The study by the Rand Corporation, commissioned in March after it was revealed that the police stopped 508,540 people on the street last year, also found: 
 The pattern of whites and minorities being stopped equally, but the minorities being frisked more often, held up in white and black neighborhoods, but was most pronounced on Staten Island.
 Slightly more than half of the 508,540 stops last year were made by 2,756 officers -- an average of about 100 each. 
 Fifteen of those 2,756 officers -- six of whom are assigned to precincts in the southern part of Queens -- were disproportionately more likely to stop blacks and Hispanics, and an additional nine officers were disproportionately more likely to stop whites.
 The issue of stopping people on the street -- known in department jargon as ''stop and frisks'' -- has been a source of occasional tension in New York. It became an emotional flash point after the 1999 fatal police shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed black street peddler. It came to light again after the fatal shooting in November 2006 of Sean Bell, when many people began to question why the number of stops had jumped to 508,540 from 97,296 in 2002, which was the last time that the department released a full year's worth of data. 
 The 59-page report by Rand, a private nonprofit organization, was commissioned by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly after the department released the data. Of the 508,540 people stopped, about 10 percent were arrested or received summonses.
 The report includes six recommendations for Mr. Kelly, such as refining paperwork to capture data on use of force and requiring officers to explain to people why they are being stopped.
 ''We're going to take an in-depth review of the six recommendations and study them, and obviously I think the report is well done,'' Mr. Kelly said. He added, ''It seems to me that they all have merit, and we'll put in place what we think is appropriate as quickly as possible.''
 The other recommendations were to review the boroughs with the greatest disparities; to train newly hired officers in stop-and-frisk policies; to modify the internal audits of street stops; and to flag and investigate those officers who make more racially disparate stops.
 The analysts, for the most part, did not explain why the racial disparities exist regarding stops, said Jack Riley, the associate director of the Rand division that did the study.
 ''There may be missing factors that are not collected by the officers that might help explain the small differences in what we would term adjusted frisk rates,'' Mr. Riley said. 
 ''Certainly, resisting arrest or resisting interaction with an officer is not captured and that would be a factor that would influence whether the person is frisked or not.''
 Critics of the department's street-stop practices faulted Rand's methodology.
 Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, called the report ''hugely flawed,'' saying that the document was more striking for what it did not say than for what it said. She said the report relied on ''inappropriate benchmarks'' to reach its findings.
 The phenomenon of a small number of officers doing most of the stops is roughly similar to patterns found in Oakland, Calif., and in Cincinnati, Mr. Riley said. Rand conducted similar studies there. ''There are typically officers who are disproportionately involved in stops of all racial groups, not just minorities,'' Mr. Riley said. ''Rand has found similar patterns.''
 In explaining why roughly 7 percent of the department's total patrol strength was responsible for 54 percent of all street stops last year, Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, said it was generally based on their assignments to high-crime areas.
 ''In addition, it involves officers assigned to special units,'' he said. ''Units that are encountering more suspects such as anticrime, narcotics, gang and other units.''
 Rand analysts left it to police officials to come up with an explanation for why blacks and Hispanics were more likely to be frisked, searched, arrested or to have force used against them -- such as officers wielding a baton, spraying pepper spray or pointing a gun -- on Staten Island compared with other boroughs.
 Mr. Browne said the department would have to study why the disparities are most pronounced on Staten Island. ''We don't know,'' he said. ''It is something we will have to examine.'' Greg Ridgeway, the associate director at Rand, who wrote the report, said there were plausible reasons for the 508,540 stops in 2006, despite projections -- based on data from national surveys on police and citizen contacts -- that suggested 250,000 to 330,000 stops could be expected. This does not include traffic stops.
 He said possible reasons included more 911 calls, more officers on the street -- there are 44 officers per 10,000 residents in New York City, as opposed to roughly 29 officers per 10,000 residents around the country -- more pedestrian traffic and more instances of violent crime than the national average.
 The report stated that 69 percent of suspects in violent crimes were described by their victims as black whereas only 53 percent of all those stopped by police officers for stop-and-frisks were black. But the civil liberties group said only a fraction of the 508,540 people stopped last year were suspects in violent crimes, making the analysis flawed.
 In one area -- the use of force -- the Rand study said, ''If black suspects are likelier to flee or resist, the observed difference in rates of force may not be due to officer bias.'' But Christopher Dunn of the civil liberties group called this ''an example of them not doing analysis and instead looking for justifications. It simply reflects the dishonesty that runs through this report.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 21 about a RAND Corporation study on street stops by the New York Police Department referred incorrectly at some points to an overall figure and misstated the number of individual officers who were found to be disproportionately more likely to stop whites. There were 508,540 street stops in 2006 -- not 508,540 people stopped -- and 13 officers, not 9, tended to stop whites more often. The article also misstated the finding of a racial disparity in the handing out of summonses. Whites are more likely -- not less -- to receive them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (65%); AUDITS (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



448 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Annapolis and the Mideast Divide

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Israel, Palestine, Crab Cakes'' (column, Nov. 19):
 Roger Cohen correctly states that the coming Annapolis Middle East peace conference is simply about ''setting a framework'' for Israeli-Palestinian talks and that little can be expected in view of Palestinian disunity and the almost unabated growth of Israeli settlements.
 But a more fundamental problem is the faulty premise on which the conference is based -- that the talks must start from scratch. Actually, almost every conceivable issue was exhaustively debated month after month at Camp David and Taba, and the two sides were nearing a final accord when Ariel Sharon and his terrorist foes joined in sabotaging it. 
 Why go over the same well-trampled ground? Why not start where the previous talks left off? This is the only realistic way to achieve peace in the foreseeable future -- and perhaps give President Bush his one claim to a decent legacy. 
 Dan Kurzman North Bergen, N.J., Nov. 19, 2007
 The writer is a biographer of Yitzhak Rabin.
 To the Editor: 
 Roger Cohen is entitled to his views about the coming Middle East confab at Annapolis, and about the various issues to be discussed. But he is out of line in his incendiary insinuation that Israel's presence in the West Bank is colonial in nature. 
 As Israel demonstrated by its unilateral disengagement from Gaza and its repeated peace initiatives that involved significant withdrawals from the West Bank, including the majority of settlements as offered at Camp David in July 2000, Israel has no desire to empire-build or rule over the Palestinians. Israel's presence in the territories is a result of a defensive war and the decades-long refusal of surrounding Arab states to negotiate peace with Israel. 
 Abraham H. Foxman National Director, Anti-Defamation League New York, Nov. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen consoles himself that ''Annapolis is not about a peace settlement.'' I disagree.
 Israelis and Palestinians have endured colossal and seemingly unending suffering. I recently visited a museum in Kiev, Ukraine, preserving the memory of those who perished during the Holocaust, and depicting the barbarism of Nazis. There, one can see firsthand images of the death chambers, hardships, misery and the depths of man's inhumanity to man, and more important, the repercussions of continuing racism and intolerance. 
 Palestinians have also endured decades of wholesale dispossession and displacement, great pain, economic siege and indiscriminate bombings. 
 Bearing the history of both peoples in mind, it becomes all the more important to preserve the memory of those who sacrificed their lives in the cause of peace and pay tribute to their heroism, and to reaffirm our unwavering commitment to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
 Munjed Farid Al Qutob London, Nov. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen is way off base in chastising Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni's insistence upon up-front recognition by the Palestinians of Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state. In all the years of this conflict, even with the few marble-mouthed grudging acknowledgments of the factual nature of Israel's existence in response to American arm-twisting, the Palestinians and other Arab governments have yet to articulate an acceptance of the Jewish character of Israel.
 Unless and until the Palestinians and the 20 some-odd Islamic states in the Arab world can openly declare acceptance of the principle that the Jewish people have a right to a Jewish state in what is their ancestral homeland, any agreement cobbled together will be nothing but a sham and a tragic waste of time. 
 Unfortunately, the quote from the supposedly moderate Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat that ''Palestinians will never acknowledge Israel's Jewish identity'' does not make one very hopeful. 
 Judith Dori Fresh Meadows, Queens, Nov. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Israel has been beset by war and bloodshed over the course of its short history, set upon by enemy Arab armies at least until peace treaties were signed with Egypt and Jordan. But not even during the darkest moments of the 1973 Yom Kippur War or at the height of the second intifada with almost daily terrorist attacks against its civilian population has ''hopelessness'' ever been an attribute that could legitimately be applied to Israel and its people. 
 Even today, Israeli society yearns so for peace that even cutting up parts of Jerusalem, its ancient capital, once deemed anathema, is on the table for discussion. 
 Stuart Pilichowski Madison, Wis., Nov. 19, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); WRITERS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); TERRORISM (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); RACE & RACISM (62%); HOLOCAUST (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (91%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (52%) MARYLAND USA (91%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); UKRAINE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



449 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LONDON JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Behind Wheels of Black Cabs, Mostly White Faces

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
As many tourists know from personal experience, London taxi drivers like to point out that unlike other cabbies, they actually know where they are going. 
 New York comes up a lot. ''They are not 100 percent certain,'' said Derek O'Reilly, the training manager at the Knowledge Point taxi school, describing various unfortunate journeys in Manhattan courtesy of recently arrived cabdrivers. ''Sometimes, I have had to direct them myself.'' 
 Taxi drivers here come by their knowledge by way of the Knowledge, a brutal test that requires them to memorize the best routes to some 25,000 streets in this complicated, non-grid-patterned city. It takes an average of three years of study, much of it spent driving around in unpleasant weather on a scooter, poring over rain-spattered street maps. 
 It is true that London taxi drivers are amazingly well prepared; it is also true that most are white men. According to the city, while a third of Londoners are from ethnic minorities and more than half are women, only 5 percent of the city's 25,000 licensed taxi drivers are nonwhite, and only 1.6 percent are women. 
 In an effort to redress the imbalance, the mayor, Ken Livingstone, announced in October that the city would spend $:2.3 million, or about $4.7 million, over three years, helping underrepresented groups pay the costs associated with the Knowledge: enrolling in classes, obtaining scooters and study materials, and, if needed, taking language and numerical literacy classes and hiring help with child care. 
 ''This project will help address the barriers to employment that currently exist for women and people from black, Asian and ethnic minority communities to participate in this important part of our city's life,'' the mayor said in a statement. 
 The program has not yet begun, said a spokeswoman for the London Development Agency, which is administering it. As a result, she said, there were no applicants available to be interviewed.
 But the mayor's remarks did not go over well among the ranks of London's taxi drivers. 
 ''The mayor says there's something in the system that prevents people from ethnic minorities from coming forward,'' said Courtney Connell, the sole black examiner at the Public Carriage Office, which administers the Knowledge and grants licenses. ''But what he fails to recognize is that there's not many black London youth who want to go through the Knowledge and spend three years in the cold getting knocked off their bike.'' 
 Cabdrivers are self-employed, set their own schedules, and, depending on how many hours they choose to work, can make a good living. But there is a certain machismo in the taxi culture.
 Catherine Grove, who quit her job at a clothing store 18 months ago and took out a loan to devote herself to full-time Knowledge study, said that not many women want to be taxi drivers, either, in part because it is so hard to raise children while also making a living and studying for the test. 
 ''Anyone who wants to do it can,'' Ms. Grove said. ''You just need to want it.'' 
 As she described what she had to go through, it was hard to imagine why anyone of any gender or race would want to do it. She is so nervous about the rigorous oral exams, in which applicants describe routes and landmarks to stone-faced examiners whom they call sir and ma'am, that Ms. Grove regularly wakes up her boyfriend in the middle of the night with panicked road-related questions. 
 Luckily, he is a taxi driver. On weekends, she takes the wheel of his taxi and he sits in the back, pretending to be a passenger bound for obscure destinations. 
 First, they argue about how fast she went over the speed bumps, and then ''he tells me afterwards whether I went the right way,'' Ms. Grove said. 
 In an interview at his taxi school, Mr. O'Reilly said 44 percent of his 1,500 students were foreign born, up from 25 percent three years ago. He has so many Muslim students that he has set aside a prayer room for them.
 Mr. O'Reilly said the mayor had ''opened a can of worms which didn't need to be opened.'' Until recently, Knowledge Point provided subsidized training to unemployed would-be cabdrivers through a government program. That program has now been canceled, he said, in favor of the new one.
 ''Our view is that is very divisive,'' he said. He pointed out his office door, where dozens of students were milling around, en route to their tutorials. ''These people are working really hard; it doesn't matter what their ethnic background is. Their main worry is that when they get a badge, will people think that they've had an easier time than their white colleagues?'' 
 Mr. O'Reilly related a discussion among cabdrivers about a taxi that had been in an accident. Although London cabs are known as black cabs, many of them carry advertisements and are painted bright colors. 
 ''They were trying to describe the cabdriver,'' Mr. O'Reilly said. ''They talked about the color of his cab, but none of them thought to mention that he was black.'' 
 What connects all the cabdrivers, Mr. O'Reilly said, is the sense of having successfully endured the hideousness of the Knowledge. 
 He himself used to throw up before his oral exams. His ex-wife was a cabdriver, as was his ex-girlfriend, he said. ''I'd be halfway somewhere, and she'd be raging, 'Why have you gone this way?''' 
 ''Whether you're black, white, pink or blue, all of us have similar stories to tell,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Knowledge Point, a school in London for aspiring taxi drivers, who have to pass a rigorous test that involves three years of study.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIJESH PATEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (87%); ETHNICITY (87%); WOMEN (72%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (68%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



450 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: A 19th-Century Ghost Awakens to Redefine 'Soul'

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL

 BODY:
FOR nearly seven years Jan Longone, an antiquarian cookbook collector, has been haunted by a ghost. The spirit came into her life as thousands of other vintage volumes from book dealers had before: in a plain brown wrapper. But as soon as she held Malinda Russell's ''Domestic Cook Book: Containing a Careful Selection of Useful Receipts for the Kitchen,'' she could see its author and her world -- the small, seldom-discussed society of free blacks in the 19th century -- coming to life before her eyes. 
 ''I felt like an archaeologist who had just stumbled on a dinosaur,'' said Mrs. Longone, who is the curator of American culinary history at the William L. Clements Library at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. ''I was in awe.'' 
 Mrs. Longone, long considered the top expert on old American cookbooks, knew immediately that she was holding the earliest cookbook by an African-American woman that had ever come to light. Turning the 39 fragile pages of the 1866 pamphlet, she realized, too, that it could challenge ingrained views about the cuisine of African-Americans. 
 The black liberation movement of the 1960's had celebrated ''soul food'': dishes with a debt to Africa, like black-eyed peas, greens, gumbo and fried chicken. Neither the activists nor the scholars who later devoted themselves to black studies intended those dishes to be seen as the food on the stove of every black cook in America. But that is exactly what happened, historians say.
 ''Southern poverty cooking was mistakenly established as the single and universal African-American cuisine,'' said Leni Sorensen, a researcher at Monticello outside Charlottesville, Va., specializing in African-American history.
 And then the volume by Malinda Russell surfaced. 
 The evidence of a single cookbook is not enough to rewrite culinary history. Still, Mrs. Russell's book suggested that a more nuanced view might be in order. Instead of rustic Southern ''soul food,'' it served up complex, cosmopolitan food inspired by European cuisine. 
 Mrs. Russell, who had operated a pastry shop in Tennessee, provided mostly dessert recipes, but they were for puff pastry and delicate rose cake, not sweet potato pie. Her savory recipes included dishes like an elegant catfish fricassee and sweet onion custard -- not a mention of lard-fried chicken legs, beaten biscuits or slow-cooked greens. Here was a black cook who was already two generations removed from the plantation kitchen by the time Lincoln died. 
 And what seemed even more remarkable to Mrs. Longone was Mrs. Russell's voice and the brief first-person account that she provided of her life. ''I found myself straining to hear her voice, and trying to talk to her,'' Mrs. Longone said. ''She had such an American story, and it seemed like her message was timeless.'' 
 Mrs. Longone soon became obsessed with finding Malinda Russell. And that is when the heartache began. 
 Old cookbooks, particularly small, privately published ones, can provide an intimate portrait of cultures and places and eras. But their authors tend to be unknown women who leave no record other than their own words. Such women can be all but impossible to track down, particularly if they were African-Americans who lived at a time when the births and marriages and deaths of black people were recorded haphazardly, if at all. 
 Mrs. Longone was undaunted. Mrs. Russell, she reasoned, had provided many clues. She wrote of having been born and raised in eastern Tennessee and of being a member of one of the first families set free by a Mr. Noddie of Virginia. She said she had joined a party that intended to resettle in Liberia, but after one of its members robbed her she had been forced, instead, to remain in Lynchburg, Va. There, she worked as a cook and lady's companion and married a man named Anderson Vaughan. 
 Four years later, Mrs. Russell wrote, her husband died. She raised their son, who she said was crippled, while running a laundry in Virginia and, later, a boarding house and pastry shop on Chuckey Mountain in Tennessee. 
 With this information, Mrs. Longone, who had worked as a rural sociologist early in her career, was sure she could pick up Mrs. Russell's trail. Her husband, Dan Longone, an emeritus professor of chemistry at the University of Michigan, shared her conviction. 
 In the summer of 2002, the couple spent their 48th wedding anniversary trip chasing reports of Malinda, Mylinda, Melinda and Russel, Rusell, Russell in town halls, cemeteries, newspapers and historical societies across Virginia, North Carolina and Tennessee. They also began riding a seesaw of exhilarating hope and crashing disappointment. 
 ''We'd get a lead that seemed solid and go zooming off to study the evidence,'' Mrs. Longone said. ''But as soon as we saw the documents, we'd find that the woman of record was either too old or too young to be our Malinda, and we'd just be crushed.'' 
 After returning to Ann Arbor, they continued spending their evenings studying census reports and genealogies, searching archives for recipes that might be antecedents of Mrs. Russell's and consulting academics and amateur food historians across the country.
 Their efforts speak to both the limits and the possibilities of using cookbooks to understand history. 
 ''Since food is not written about in charters and treaties, the historian has to go back to primary sources, to letters, travel accounts, diaries and genealogy,'' said Sandy Oliver, the publisher of Food History News in Islesboro, Me. ''It's the most painstaking research there is, and even then it is all but impossible to find the beginnings of things, and no cookbook alone can provide an accurate view of African-American food ways in the 17th and 18th centuries.''
 Scholars who studied early books by blacks -- like ''The House Servant's Directory,'' by Robert Roberts, published in 1827, and Tunis G. Campbell's 1848 ''Hotel Keepers, Head Waiters and Housekeepers' Guide'' -- tended to see their blend of Yankee, European and Southern recipes as a reflection of who was being served more than who was doing the serving. The plantation kitchen recipes in books like ''What Mrs. Fisher Knows About Old Southern Cooking,'' by Abby Fisher (1881), who was born a slave, were championed by these historians as a better mirror of the African-American kitchen.
 In May 2007, Mrs. Longone published a limited-edition facsimile of the only known copy of Mrs. Russell's cookbook and distributed copies at a symposium at the Longone Center for American Culinary Research, part of the Clements Library at Michigan. The volume was greeted with great emotion. 
 ''It is an Emancipation Proclamation for black cooks,'' said Toni Tipton-Martin, a journalist and food historian in Austin, Tex., who has spent a decade researching the cooking of African-American women.
 ''In isolation, Malinda's book might appear to be an aberration,'' she said. But in the context of the black-written cookbooks that followed, many of which reflected a sophisticated international kitchen, Mrs. Russell's cookbook ''dispels the notion of a universal African-American food experience, which is why the term 'soul food' doesn't work for so many of us,'' she said. 
 The release of the facsimile (copies of which are available for $25 plus postage from the Clements Library, www.clements.umich.edu/culinary or 734-764-2347) also brought new leads. One of them sent the Longones west this summer to Paw Paw, Mich., Malinda Russell's last-known whereabouts. 
 After eight years of running the boarding house and pastry shop in Tennessee, Mrs. Russell wrote, she had ''by hard labor and economy, saved a considerable sum of money for the support of myself and my son.'' But then in 1864, she was robbed again, this time ''by a guerrilla party,'' she wrote, ''who threatened my life if I revealed who they were.'' Taking her son, she fled north to Paw Paw. 
 The Longones felt that familiar frisson of hope as they drove into the town. 
 And they felt the familiar sinking of hope when they learned that within months of the publication of Mrs. Russell's book, the little town had been all but destroyed by a fire. They found no trace of her.
 Locating the woman they call Malinda seems, therefore, increasingly unlikely. But to the Longones, abandoning the search is unthinkable. 
 ''Our needle in the haystack gets smaller and smaller,'' Mrs. Longone said softly, ''but we'll find her. She wants to be found, and we got some great new leads.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO GUMBO: Malinda Russell's recipes were based on European cuisine.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM L. CLEMENTS LIBRARY, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISTORY (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (75%); LIBRARIES (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); POULTRY (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (87%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



451 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Fed Expects Slowdown To Deepen

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve expects economic growth to slow sharply next year, and policy makers there are worried that even this forecast may prove too optimistic, according to an assessment that the central bank released on Tuesday.
 In a new effort to be more open, the Fed released a detailed forecast that summarized the predictions of the Fed governors and regional bank presidents.
 It also reported their disagreements, which almost all centered on how much the broad economy is likely to be damaged by the surge in oil prices and the tight credit markets brought on by the recent severe problems in housing and mortgage lending. 
 At the same time, Fed officials expect unemployment to rise only slightly and inflation to edge down. In a shift from three weeks ago, the officials said they agreed that recent evidence of slowing inflation was more than a temporary blip and would ''likely be sustained.''
 Neither the forecast nor newly released minutes from the Fed's last meeting on Oct. 31 mentioned the chances of a recession. But the new predictions are low enough that, if borne out, the economic situation might well feel like a recession to many people.
 The forecast, which was much anticipated, did nothing to end the battle of wills between Fed officials and Wall Street over the need to reduce interest rates for a third time this year when the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets next, on Dec. 11.
 Investors did not seem to know how to react to the information. Share prices initially dropped after the report was released, possibly in reaction to the reluctance that the policy makers had expressed toward cutting rates last month. But prices bounced back and ended the day modestly higher, possibly in response to the Fed's reduced alarms about inflation.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 51.70 points, or 0.40 percent, to 13,010.14, after making 100-point swings in both directions. That followed Monday's drop of more than 200 points. Many Nasdaq or small stocks were flat or lower.
 Fed officials have signaled in recent speeches that they do not want to cut rates anytime soon, saying their cuts in September and October would be enough to keep the economy out of recession. 
 Indeed, many of them were already uneasy about their last cut in the benchmark federal funds rate on Oct. 31, to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent. According to the minutes of that meeting, Fed bankers saw that decision as a ''close call.''
 But many investors continue to bet heavily on a rate cut in December, and some economists and Wall Street analysts argue that the economy will come much closer to stalling than the Fed now assumes.
 ''I think what we're really debating here is the timing,'' said Stuart Hoffman, an economist at PNC Financial in Pittsburgh. ''Whether or not it happens on Dec. 11, my guess is that by the March meeting, the Fed funds rate will be 4 percent.'' 
 The new forecasts for growth next year in the gross domestic product range from 1.6 percent to 2.6 percent. That is both lower and more uncertain than in June, when the forecasts ranged from 2.5 percent to 3 percent.
 ''Most participants viewed the risks to their G.D.P. projections as weighted to the downside,'' the central bank said in its summary of the last policy meeting. 
 The new assessment shows that policy makers still see only limited evidence that the problems in housing and subprime mortgages have damaged the broad economy.
 The ''central tendency'' of policy makers' individual forecasts calls for economic growth in 2008 of 1.8 percent to 2.5 percent. Growth in 2007 is expected to be 2.4 percent to 2.5 percent.
 As a group, the Fed policy makers expect ''subpar economic growth'' over the next year. They also predict that unemployment will edge up to as much as 5 percent next year, compared with about 4.7 percent today.
 But the new report shows that they are much more worried that the downturn in housing and the problems in mortgage markets could cut deeper into the overall economy.
 They also appear to have reduced their estimates about the nation's long-term potential rate of growth without inflation, often described as the economy's speed limit. The potential growth rate is based on estimates of future productivity growth and increases in the population. 
 Until recently, most economists estimated a potential growth rate of 3 percent a year. But Fed officials appear to have reduced that to about 2.5 percent, with an assumption that productivity will climb about 1.5 percent a year. That would be much slower than in the 1990s. 
 The new forecasts represented the Federal Reserve's latest step from secrecy toward openness, an evolution that has been under way for two decades. 
 The Fed is now releasing its economic forecast four times a year, rather than twice, and the new forecast looks ahead three years instead of two. Because the outlook stretches further into the future, and assumes that the economy will be shaped by ''appropriate'' monetary policy, the new outlook implies what Fed officials think is both possible and desirable.
 The new forecasts predict that inflation will range from 1.5 to 2 percent in 2008 and 2009. That is slightly higher than the range of 1 to 2 percent that the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has mentioned in the past. But it is roughly consistent with what analysts have long considered the Fed's unofficial target for inflation.
 Analysts cautioned that the forecast was muddier than it might appear. That is because it is an amalgam of individual forecasts from each of the Fed's 12 regional banks and from each of 7 Fed governors. As a result, the consolidated predictions for growth, employment and inflation can seem at odds with one another.
 One incongruity, for example, is that the Fed forecasts significantly slower growth over the next year but only a modest increase in unemployment to 5 percent -- still a low level judged by long-term perspectives. 
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said he would take the Fed forecasts with a grain of salt.
 ''The Fed is just as beholden to the short-term, high-frequency data as it ever was,'' he wrote in a note to clients. ''We do not propose in the future to devote much time to the Fed's now-quarterly forecasting exercise.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: REVISED FORECASTS: The minutes from the last meeting of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors gives new details on the range of their forecasts for economic growth -- and how much disagreement there is among them about the outlook for 2008. (Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



452 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, a Test of Mixed-Income Housing

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Despite the havoc wrought by Hurricane Katrina around this city, one slice of the devastated housing market is showing resurgence. The multifamily sector is more active than it has ever been, with nearly 5,400 units being created or undergoing major rehabilitation, according to a recent brokers' report covering rental apartment complexes with 100 units or more. 
 In a long-neglected neighborhood near the central business district, for example, the 183-unit Preserve will replace a plant where Crystal Hot Sauce, a staple of Cajun cooking, used to be bottled, and the 228-unit Crescent Club is rising on the site of a former car dealership. Nearby, the century-old Falstaff Brewery complex -- shuttered for three decades -- is being transformed into 147 rental apartments.
 ''People have come to the conclusion that there is a viable market here,'' said an author of the report about the city's multifamily housing market, Larry G. Schedler, a principal of a brokerage firm in Metairie, La. ''It might be a little smaller than it was, but they're not going to close the place down.'' 
 To be sure, all this development is hardly likely to compensate for the rental housing wiped out by Hurricane Katrina. Before the storm, renters were 53 percent of the population, most in homes with one to four units. In all, 51,681 rental homes, about half the total in the city, were destroyed or damaged, the Louisiana Recovery Authority said. Efforts to replace four battered public housing projects with mixed-income developments have stalled.
 The report, which surveyed 27,000 apartments, found that rents had climbed an average of 27 percent since the storm. Rates have since stabilized, Mr. Schedler said.
 Developers of rental housing have faced significant challenges since the storm. Insurance premiums have more than tripled, deductibles are higher, and construction costs have risen by 50 percent or more, he said.
 The new construction is occurring largely in or near the city's historic center, which suffered less extensive damage than eastern neighborhoods. And it is being heavily subsidized, mostly through federal low-income-housing tax credits and additional incentives. These complexes will have a mixture of low-income and market-rate tenants; such a mix of income levels is largely untested in this city.
 ''It is impossible now to develop conventionally financed apartment housing,'' said Pres Kabacoff, chief executive of HRI Properties, a national company based here. HRI, a pioneer in developing mixed-income housing in New Orleans, expects to break ground early next year on a 310-unit apartment complex, the next phase of its River Gardens development on the site of a former public housing project. 
 A few developers are drawing upon other incentives like the post-Katrina enhanced tax credits for historic preservation and they are creating housing from older buildings. Marcel Wisznia, for example, recently converted the 1927 Western Union building on Carondelet Street into 32 apartments with high ceilings, midcentury modern furniture and original art. These apartments are aimed at young professionals or out-of-towners seeking a foothold; monthly rents range from $1,600 to $3,075. Mr. Wisznia is also developing three other larger projects.
 Only a modest amount of subsidized apartment development is occurring in heavily damaged East New Orleans, a middle-class African-American enclave, where residents ''are not anxious to have affordable housing on their doorstep,'' Mr. Schedler said. On Nov. 13, the city planning commission rejected an Indianapolis developer's plan to build a 276-unit apartment complex. ''It doesn't break down on racial lines,'' Mr. Kabacoff said. ''It breaks down on economic lines.''
 But some developers are using their own money to rehabilitate flood-damaged garden apartment complexes along Interstate 10 in East New Orleans.
 After more than four feet of water destroyed the first floor of his 216-unit Copper Creek complex, Gene Ratchford, the owner of Triangle Real Estate, a multifamily-housing developer in Gastonia, N.C., rebuilt the damaged units and renovated the upstairs floors. Today, the well-tended, cream-colored structure stands out among its boarded-up, decrepit neighbors and is nearly fully occupied. Monthly rents range from $635 to $795. 
 Since the storm, Mr. Ratchford has bought four nearby complexes, giving him a total of 1,750 units in East New Orleans. He said he did not accept tenants with federal housing vouchers. ''We try to take people with good credit who want to live with other people with good credit,'' he said. 
 Instead, he markets his properties by running advertisements in newspapers in Baton Rouge and Houston. ''People are coming back,'' he said.
 Like Mr. Ratchford, the developers of the Preserve and the Crescent Club are from out of state -- in their case, New York. But Matthew G. Schwartz, 30, and Chris N. Papamichael, 33, the principals of the Domain Companies, had experience using low-income tax credits to build income-restricted housing in Staten Island and Ithaca, N.Y., among other places.
 One of 17 areas named by the city as recovery zones ripe for private investment, Tulane Avenue is lined with boarded-up buildings and bail bond offices. But Mr. Schwartz said the neighborhood seemed ideal for apartment construction because it will offer easy access to downtown and to two large new hospitals being developed nearby. But there were hurdles to surmount. Faced with insurance costs that threatened to eat up half his profits, Mr. Schwartz said he made several concessions, including putting parking, rather than apartments, on the ground floor.
 For the two projects, which are expected to cost $100 million, Domain got $56.1 million in financing from the Centerline Capital Group, a New York company with which they had a long relationship. Both Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Papamichael are graduates of Tulane University in New Orleans, as is Justin E. Ginsberg, Centerline's senior managing director for affordable housing. ''Without that relationship, attracting financing would have been a real challenge for us,'' Mr. Schwartz said. Another $35.5 million came from other Gulf Opportunity Zone incentives. 
 Sixty percent of the units will be market rate, with the rest reserved for people whose income is 60 percent or less of the area's median.
 Real estate specialists predict that these projects will serve as catalysts for the neighborhood's revival. ''The Tulane corridor will transform into something it hasn't been for 50 or 60 years,'' said J. Mark Madderra, a principal in Madderra & Cazalot, a mortgage banking firm, who is a co-author of the multifamily report. Domain is also planning a third apartment house, with 72 units, in the neighborhood, on Jefferson Davis Parkway.
 There is concern about whether market-rate tenants in New Orleans will accept the idea of living with poorer neighbors. But John McIlwain, a senior fellow for housing at the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit research group in Washington, said the timing seemed right for these developments because of the scarcity of rental housing and the spike in rents. Since market-rate tenants in such projects can expect to pay less than they would in a conventional building, the mixed-income buildings may be welcome. 
 ''They stand a better chance,'' he said. ''There's a ready market for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris N. Papamichael, left, Matthew G. Schwartz and Justin E. Ginsberg are working together to develop rental housing in New Orleans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The 183-unit Preserve in New Orleans will replace a bottling plant for Crystal Hot Sauce and will have both low-income and market-rate tenants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE DOMAIN COMPANIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); CITIES (78%); HISTORY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (63%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



453 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Loan Crisis Entangles Freddie Mac

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Losses at Freddie Mac underscored the continuing turmoil in the housing industry yesterday, and other developments reinforced the sense that conditions would not improve soon.
 Freddie Mac, the big mortgage finance company, posted a $2 billion loss for the third quarter and warned that it might not have enough capital on hand to cover the mandatory reserves for its mortgage commitments. 
 The company has been battered by a rising wave of foreclosures tied to subprime mortgage defaults, and it is ''seriously considering'' cutting its stock dividend. 
 Freddie's misfortune is particularly rattling because the company is considered something of a backstop for the lending industry. With its implied guarantee of government backing, the housing market looks to Freddie, and its bigger sibling, Fannie Mae, to provide stable credit and financing for a wide swath of mortgages. 
 But yesterday's earnings report showed that even the gold standard of lending agencies was not immune to the toxic subprime securities that have infected much of the market. 
 The loss included a provision for credit losses of $1.2 billion, and it wrote down the value of some assets by $3.6 billion. And Freddie's outlook remained cloudy: executives said they did not expect earnings to improve in the fourth quarter, and they suggested that the government would not lower its 30 percent threshold for Freddie's reserves.
 Shares of the company plummeted 28.7 percent, to $26.74, its lowest level in 11 years, while shares of Fannie Mae dropped 24.8 percent. Freddie will seek advice from Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers for its short-term efforts to shore up its reserves.
 While many analysts said the poor earnings suggested that subprime problems had spread to new corners of the mortgage market, some said that they did not anticipate a significant tightening in Freddie's lending standards. 
 ''One of the reasons why they are trying to do a significant capital raise is they want to be out there continuing to provide credit,'' said Frederick Cannon, a managing director at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, who covers the housing sector.
 But the agencies' exposure could also restrict the government's ability to intervene in the market. 
 ''It makes any potential large federal response that much more difficult,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal. ''If the federal government were to respond aggressively to a greater-than-expected downturn in the housing sector, it would rely on Fannie and Freddie to do a lot of the heavy lifting.''
 In Freddie's case, the company warned about more problems in the coming months. ''Without doubt, 2007 has been an extremely difficult year for the country's housing and credit markets,'' Richard F. Syron, Freddie Mac's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
 Mr. Syron was not alone in his lament. D. R. Horton, the nation's largest home builder, reported a $50.1 million loss in its fiscal fourth quarter as the housing downturn pummeled its inventory, good will and land-use contracts. 
 Lower demand and tighter lending standards have cut back the company's business and caused many clients to cancel contracts.
 ''We expect the housing environment to remain challenging,'' Donald R. Horton, the company's chairman, said in a statement.
 The subprime debacle also claimed another prominent casualty yesterday. The chairman and chief executive of H&R Block, Mark Ernst, said he would resign amid the company's difficulties with subprime exposure. Mr. Ernst had come under fire for the failed sale of the Option One Mortgage Corporation, a company subsidiary that took heavy losses on risky loans. 
 His successor as chairman will be Richard C. Breeden, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who was recently elected to H&R Block's board after sharply criticizing Mr. Ernst. 
 The chief executive slot will be temporarily filled by Alan M. Bennett, a former top executive at Aetna, the insurance company.
 And home-building data released yesterday offered no hint of an end to housing troubles. Permits to break ground fell 6.6 percent in October to their lowest level in more than 14 years, a sign that builders are cutting back on residential home projects. 
 Permits have dipped nearly 25 percent since last October, to a seasonally adjusted 1.18 million annual rate, the Commerce Department said.
 New residential construction grew slightly last month, rising 3 percent, to an annual pace of 1.23 million. It was the first increase in four months, but the increase came mostly from a 44 percent jump in multifamily developments, like condominiums. 
 Construction of single-family homes dropped again last month, and housing starts over all remain near their lowest level since the recession of the early 1990s. ''With mortgage financing further constrained and inventories of unsold homes quite high, the near-to-medium term outlook for housing starts is not good,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR, wrote in a research note.
 That would be unfortunate for Freddie Mac, whose mortgage-related securities rapidly lost their value as the subprime market began to collapse. Freddie lost $3.29 a share in the third quarter, compared with a loss of $715 million, or $1.17 a share, in the period a year earlier. The company also said it did not expect earnings to improve in the fourth quarter.
 ''We're not happy about this,'' Mr. Syron, Freddie's chairman, told investors and shareholders on a conference call. ''We don't expect you to be happy about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Housing units being built in Los Angeles. Permits to break ground fell 6.6 percent in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC FRANCIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



454 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Debating Iraq's Transition

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Watching Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice making repeated trips to Israel to try to broker some kind of deal between Israelis and Palestinians, while Iraq remains politically unresolved, leaves me feeling like my house is burning down and the fire department has decided to stop along the way to get two cats out of a tree. 
 At one level, I just don't get it. It's clear that the surge by U.S. troops has really dampened violence in Iraq. So don't we now need a surge in diplomacy to finish the job? 
 It often feels to me as if Secretary Rice just wants to keep Iraq at arm's length and hope that it will somehow end up on someone else's report card.
 If you were President Bush and your whole legacy was riding on the outcome of this war, wouldn't you be sending your top diplomat to Baghdad to work with Iraqis and their neighbors to broker a political settlement and not let them grow complacent that they have an open-ended commitment from the American people? 
 (It makes you glad Democrats are still banging their drum.)
 But then I talk to people in Baghdad and look at what is really evolving there and I say to myself: ''Maybe you're missing something that Secretary Rice knows -- that there isn't going to be any formal political reconciliation moment in Iraq, grand bargain or White House signing ceremony. The surge has made Iraq safe, not for formal political reconciliation yet, but safe for an 'A.T.M. peace.' ''
 That is, each of the Iraqi factions basically agrees to live and let live with the new lines drawn by the last two years of civil war and the Baghdad government serves as an A.T.M. cash machine -- supporting the army and local security groups and dispensing oil revenues to the provincial governors and tribal chiefs from each community. 
 Sure, the Shiites haven't passed a law to let more Sunni Baathists into the government, but they're still letting some back. Yes, they haven't passed an oil law, but the government is still spreading around the cash.
 Michael Gordon, The Times's top military expert, whose history of the Iraq war, ''Cobra II,'' is one of the best books on the subject, said the phrase circulating in the military lately to describe the situation evolving in Iraq is ''accommodation without reconciliation.'' The various parties basically accept the new imbalance of power -- Shiites on top, but allowing the Kurds and Sunnis to have a share -- and the political struggle continues with lower levels of violence. 
 It isn't irreversible. That only happens when refugees start returning in large numbers, because they see a flourishing economy, a government delivering services equitably and reliably, political alliances developing across Sunni-Shiite lines and security forces they can trust in their neighborhoods. We are still miles away from that, yet something seems to be moving.
 And that brings me back to Secretary Rice. Is she just keeping away from the Iraq mess to save her image, or does she know that the Iraqi politicians will not and cannot seize this moment to reach a grand bargain, because making big public concessions to one another is still extremely dangerous in a country like Iraq. It is an invitation for assassination. 
 But maybe their own very Iraqi, very ad hoc, very oil-lubricated, modus vivendi can still get us somewhere stable and decent. 
 If that is the case, maybe the question we need to start asking is not: When do Iraqis reach a formal internal peace so we can go? But rather: Can the informal arrangements they're cobbling together reach a level of stability that would enable a major drawdown of U.S. forces next year?
 I don't know. My Iraq crystal ball stopped working a long time ago. I'm taking this one step at a time. 
 Right now what is indisputable is that we are seeing the first crack in years in a wall of pessimism that has been the Iraq story. It is only a crack, but it creates new possibilities. It would be reckless to ignore or exaggerate. 
 You have to keep your mind open that something may be emerging from the ground up -- and yet be wary. Are the parties really working something out, or are they just tired? Is Secretary Rice wisely letting the situation ripen or deftly running from the problem? 
 I have more questions right now than strong opinions.
 So I went to a source I knew I could trust -- my colleague James Glanz, The Times's Baghdad bureau chief who has lived through so much craziness there: ''There is a sense of quiet on the streets that we have not seen for a long time in Baghdad,'' he told me, ''but there is also a big question mark in the shadows of every alley. We don't know what is lurking back there, but we suspect, and evidence suggests, that it is the same set of problems that were always there.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFUGEES (69%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



455 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: China Wins Trade Ruling About Paper

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
In a setback for American producers fighting Chinese imports, a federal trade panel ruled Tuesday against the American glossy paper industry's request for tariffs on imported Chinese paper. The decision threw out duties that had been authorized by the Bush administration early this year. 
 The ruling, by the United States International Trade Commission, a quasijudicial body that makes its determinations independently, found that the NewPage Corporation and other makers of glossy or coated paper had not been ''materially injured'' or ''threatened with material injury'' from the subsidies.
 The ruling did not dispute that the subsidies might be improper or illegal, only that the paper producers had not been harmed by them. It thus left intact efforts by American steel, tire and chemical manufacturers to obtain relief on the basis that they are harmed by Chinese subsidies of exports.
 Also left intact was the Bush administration policy, adopted in March, that imposed potentially steep tariffs on Chinese manufactured goods on the ground that China illegally subsidizes some of its exports, including paper.
 Still, the trade commission's decision was seen as a major, though narrow, victory for the Chinese government and Chinese paper exporters. It also applied to paper exports from South Korea and Indonesia and affected tariffs that could have risen to a range of 20 to 30 percent.
 ''Our clients are ecstatic,'' said Daniel L. Porter, a partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, which represented the Chinese government and several paper companies. ''The ruling sends a message to industries clamoring for tariffs to make sure they can show they are injured from imports. Otherwise, they'll be fighting their cases for nothing.''
 NewPage said it was ''very disappointed'' by the ruling and might appeal. 
 The company spokeswoman, Amber Garwood, said inexpensive and subsidized Chinese imports had led to 20 percent of the domestic industry's being shut down as a result of what she called the dumping of paper sold in the United States ''at less than fair value'' because of heavy government subsidies.
 The Bush administration's decision to seek potentially high tariffs on Chinese manufactured goods deemed to have been illegally subsidized reversed more than 20 years of American policy. Previously, Washington held that subsidies could not be illegal in a country that was not a market economy, including China.
 The decision was deplored at the time by China, which charged that it was illegal under World Trade Organization rules. Whether or not the rules were broken by the decision still has to be determined by the W.T.O., but in the meantime the duties on paper are canceled because the American paper companies failed to prove that they had been hurt.
 The Commerce Department, which works with the International Trade Commission, is looking into imposing duties on other products, including other kinds of paper, steel pipe, off-road tires, magnets and laminated sacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); CHEMICALS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: NEWPAGE CORP (92%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



456 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: A Day of Big Swings Ends on the Upside

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished an extremely volatile session mostly higher yesterday after investors, still jittery about mortgage-related problems at the nation's major lenders, decided to interpret comments from the Federal Reserve as suggesting another interest rate cut.
 Meanwhile, oil prices resumed their march toward $100 a barrel. Light crude for January delivery surged $3.39 to settle at a record $98.03 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Heating oil futures also rose to a record, while gasoline prices extended their decline at the pump. At a national average of $3.09 a gallon, according to AAA and the Oil Price Information Service, gas prices have fallen 2.2 cents in a little less than a week.
 In minutes from their meeting Oct. 30-31, Fed policy makers said their decision to lower rates for a second consecutive meeting ''was a close call.'' But in a separate economic forecast, they pointed to slowing growth next year, an uptick in unemployment and moderating inflation -- which would seem to portend a possible rate decrease.
 The major indexes changed direction several times while analysts sorted through the Fed statements.
 Also, Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage lender, posted a $2 billion quarterly loss yesterday, escalating jitters about it and its larger counterpart, Fannie Mae. Freddie Mac fell $10.76, or 28.7 percent, to $26.74, and Fannie Mae fell $9.33, or 24.8 percent, to $28.25. 
 And an analyst downgraded Countrywide Financial, pointing to continuing credit problems, making investors uneasy even before the Fed released its minutes. Howard Shapiro, a Fox-Pitt, Kelton analyst, cut his rating on the company to in line from outperform. 
 Countrywide's downgrade spurred market speculation that it might file for bankruptcy, which the company later denied. After plunging more than 20 percent, Countrywide shares ended down 29 cents, or 2.7 percent, at $10.28.
 ''When there's a lot of uncertainty in the market, the rumor mill runs full speed ahead,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, a New York-based brokerage house. Some market participants had also speculated before the opening bell that the Fed might hold an emergency meeting to cut rates.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 51.70 points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,010.14, after making 100-point swings in either direction throughout the day. The eventual gain followed Monday's swoon of more than 200 points.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.43 points, or 0.45 percent, to 1,439.70, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.43 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,596.81. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 1 point, or 0.13 percent, to 749.33.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to the price, rose to 4.10 percent, from 4.07 percent on Monday. The price fell 6/32, to 101 8/32.
 The dollar slumped against almost all major currencies yesterday as gloomy housing data combined with the investor sentiment that the Fed could cut interest rates again. Although lower interest rates can jump-start an economy, they can also weaken a currency as investors transfer funds to countries where they can earn higher returns.
 The euro reached as high as $1.4819, according to Dow Jones's Interbank foreign exchange rates, before settling back to $1.4815 late in New York, still significantly up from the $1.4667 it bought Monday. The British pound rose to $2.0667 from $2.0497, while the dollar fell to 109.69 Japanese yen from 109.85 yen.
 The dollar crept up against the Canadian dollar, however, to 98.32 Canadian cents from 98.31 cents.
 Given Wall Street's erratic trading pattern since the summer, it will not be surprising if yesterday's gains do not stick. The major stock indexes remain higher on the year, and Wall Street is desperately hoping they do not fall further, but an end-of-the-year rally is looking remote.
 ''The stock market obviously likes when the Fed lowers rates, but maybe they're coming to grips with the fact that there's a reason why,'' said Joseph M. Balestrino, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors. 
 Declining issues narrowly outnumbered those advancing on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 4.74 billion shares, compared with 4.01 billion shares Monday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



457 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Deal Will Let Some Borrowers In California Keep Low Rates

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The mortgage lenders Countrywide, G.M.A.C., Litton and HomeEq have agreed to let many potentially distressed borrowers in California keep the initial low rates of their home loans, a spokeswoman for Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Tuesday. 
 During the housing boom, subprime mortgages allowed borrowers with little in the bank to buy homes. Low initial interest rates on the loans are expiring, pushing mortgage payments up and sending many borrowers into default and foreclosure.
 California's has been hard hit by faltering mortgages, leaving the state with seven of the 16 metropolitan areas in the United States with the highest foreclosure rates.
 A Schwarzenegger aide, Sabrina Lockhart, said the governor's office negotiated an agreement with the Countrywide Financial Corporation, G.M.A.C., Litton Loan Servicing and the HomeEq Servicing Corporation that would allow the lenders' mortgage borrowers in California to continue paying loans at initial rates if they live in their homes and make payments on time but are unlikely to afford higher payments when their mortgage interest rates are reset.
 Governor Schwarzenegger's office estimates 500,000 Californians hold subprime mortgages whose rates will reset at higher levels over the next two years.
 Ms. Lockhart said that the governor wanted the agreement, based on a proposal by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, to stand for five years, but said that how long it stays in effect at each company would depend on individual circumstances.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said the agreement would prevent thousands of foreclosures and urged borrowers to embrace it. ''Borrowers need to do their part, too,'' he said in a statement. ''If these lenders are willing to meet more than halfway, it's important that consumers don't run when they reach out.'' 
 The lenders have also agreed to seek out borrowers before their loan terms reset and to improve the process of determining whether borrowers can afford bigger mortgage payments when rates rise, Ms. Lockhart said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); OCWEN FINANCIAL CORP (70%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); OCN (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS531320 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS (70%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



458 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Border Fence Project Raises Environmental Concerns

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The Department of Homeland Security is ahead of schedule in building some 700 miles of fencing along the Mexican border, but some environmental groups, elected officials and local Indian tribes say too little attention is being paid to the environmental consequences of the barriers.
 In the latest flash point, Homeland Security Department officials took possession of land last week in the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge in southern Arizona by brokering a land swap with another federal agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service. 
 Opponents say the 12-to-15-foot-tall steel fence and its construction will disrupt the habitat of jaguars, pygmy owls and other sensitive fauna in the wildlife refuge, and encourage illegal immigrants to use more remote, ecologically delicate terrain.
 Three times, including twice this year, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has exempted fence construction along the border from environmental reviews normally required for such projects, saying the waivers avoid legal delays that threaten speedy completion. 
 Officials at the Fish and Wildlife Service said they believed Mr. Chertoff could have issued a similar exemption in the Buenos Aires case if they had not negotiated the land swap. The Fish and Wildlife Service's manager of the refuge had issued a document that declared the fence would have no significant impact on the refuge, but rescinded that declaration several weeks before the land swap was agreed upon.
 ''This is another example of the federal government riding roughshod over America's treasured lands and legal process in its rush to complete a highly ineffective and controversial border wall,'' said Matt Clark, the Southwest representative for Defenders of Wildlife, an advocacy group.
 Federal officials have defended the land swap and the environmental waivers, saying speedy construction of the fence will help lead to control of the border and reduce trash and other environmental damage generated by illegal immigrant traffic.
 The land swap at the Buenos Aires refuge involved 5.8 acres along a seven-mile stretch at Sasabe that has been a major illegal crossing point. A spokesman for the Fish and Wildlife Service said the deal was not intended to bypass the decision by the then-refuge manager in October to withdraw his assessment that the fence was compatible. 
 The manager, Mitch Ellis, did not respond to a telephone message. But in an interview last week with The Arizona Daily Star he objected to the way the fence decision was being carried out.
 ''Nobody did anything wrong except that we sort of hid the process,'' Mr. Ellis told the newspaper, ''and I'm not sure why we did it that way.'' 
 Jose Viramontes, a spokesman for the Fish and Wildlife Service, said the swap was the ''win-win'' solution to overcome potential environmental damage on the land and regulatory difficulties in building on it.
 ''The fence gets built, the D.H.S. meets its mission, and we acquire valuable land,'' Mr. Viramontes said. The land being given to the Fish and Wildlife Service in exchange for the 5.8 acres has not yet been identified.
 Mr. Chertoff first used his waiver power, granted to him under the REAL ID Act of 2005, to speed the construction of fencing in 2005 on disputed land in San Diego. The other decisions came in January and in October of this year, both on tracts in Southern Arizona.
 Defenders of Wildlife and the Sierra Club are challenging Mr. Chertoff's waiver power through an amended federal lawsuit arising from his decision in October to overrule environmental review for a stretch of fence on the San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area in southeastern Arizona. The lawsuit is pending in federal court.
 In addition, Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has asked Mr. Chertoff in a letter for a detailed explanation by Wednesday of why he needed to invoke the waiver for the San Pedro fence.
 Mr. Chertoff has said the fencing, in addition to thousands of new Border Patrol agents and presence of thousands of National Guard troops, has resulted in a 22 percent drop in apprehensions of illegal immigrants along the border, though economists and political scientists on the border say several other factors could be contributing to the decline.
 A spokeswoman for the Homeland Security Department, Veronica Nur Valdes, said that when the department has waived environmental review it has included some features in the fencing to answer environmental concerns, like including tiny holes to allow lizards and other animals through.
 While plans for a ''virtual fence,'' a test project involving integrated high-tech cameras and sensors, have been delayed for months by technical glitches, physical barriers are going up quickly and are remaking stretches of vast border wilderness.
 In the past year, the government has built 270 miles of pedestrian and vehicle fencing, including 76 miles of pedestrian fencing, exceeding a goal of 70 miles, for a total of 106 miles of such barriers along the 2,000-mile Mexican border.
 Most of the vehicle barriers do little to stop individuals on foot, but they impede cars and trucks from driving loads of people across.
 Next year, the department plans to add 225 miles of pedestrian fence, for a total of 370 by the end of 2008, in addition to several hundred miles of vehicle fencing.
 Officials said total fencing would amount to 670 miles by the end of 2008, establishing a natural and a manufactured barrier over the heaviest illegal traffic areas from the Pacific Ocean to the Texas-New Mexico border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Work is proceeding faster than expected on the 700-mile border fence, and this section near Sasabe, Ariz., is nearly done. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN KNUTH/ARIZONA DAILY STAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ANIMALS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (94%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



459 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Differences on Myanmar Weaken Asian Trade Pact

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Southeast Asian leaders signed a charter here on Tuesday that was drafted as a watershed document to bind the region together in a European-style economic community, but the pact has instead exposed the sharp divisions over one of its members, Myanmar. 
 The Asean charter establishes the group as a legal entity, creating permanent representation for members at its secretariat in Jakarta, Indonesia, and committing heads of state to meetings twice a year. It includes a blueprint for economic reforms intended to create a European-style trading bloc by 2015, with free movement of goods, services, investment and skilled labor. The document also sets timelines for the elimination of nontariff barriers and other trade restrictions. 
 But the president of the Philippines has warned that her country may not ratify the document if Myanmar does not institute democratic changes and release the long-detained opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. 
 The blueprint also falls short of establishing the customs union many businesses in the region have been hoping for. And it includes a provision that allows members to opt out of economic commitments if other members agree.
 ''The charter they ended up with is very diluted, to a point where it doesn't make any new ground,'' said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute of Security and International Studies in Bangkok. ''What we have is the codification of existing norms.''
 It is increasingly clear that Myanmar is a liability to regional status. On Monday, the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, warned that the situation in Myanmar was holding up progress toward a free trade agreement between the United States and Asean. And President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines warned that unless Myanmar committed itself to democratic reforms and released Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, her country's Congress was unlikely to ratify the charter, essentially vetoing it.
 Pointing to Asean's track record of lofty targets and pedestrian achievements, economists and analysts have voiced skepticism about the group's ability to follow Europe's lead given the widely divergent levels of economic development among its 10 members -- with rich Singapore at one end of the spectrum and impoverished Laos at the other. 
 ''The disparities are still quite big,'' said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Citigroup in Singapore. ''Don't even talk about a single currency. It's so far away.''
 The squabbling over Myanmar only underscored the disparate levels of political maturity and development that exist between Asean's older and newer members.
 Asean's newer members, poor and ruled by autocratic governments -- Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam -- empathize with Myanmar's ruling junta and oppose efforts to press it to tolerate political dissent. Analysts said these countries feared that any stronger action by Asean on Myanmar might set an unwelcome precedent. 
 These three nations helped Myanmar block plans by Singapore to have the United Nations special envoy to Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, deliver a briefing on Wednesday to a meeting that includes leaders from Asean, China, Japan, South Korea and India. (Mr. Gambari instead held private talks with Asean leaders late Tuesday, although China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, reportedly declined to meet with him.)
 But Asean's original, more developed members -- Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines among them -- now see Myanmar as a diplomatic embarrassment that needs to be handled through careful pressure and persuasion. All of Asean's members agree that sanctions like those imposed by the United States and Europe would serve only to isolate Myanmar further and reduce what little leverage they have over the junta. 
 The charter resolves to create an Asean human rights body but has no provisions for enforcing compliance with any human rights standard. 
 ''They're more into rhetoric than real action,'' said Sinapan Samydorai, president of the Think Center, a nongovernmental organization in Singapore. ''They can talk about human rights, but they can't enforce it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); RIVERS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); VETO (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) MYANMAR (96%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007



460 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The Great Broadway Strike of '07, Now Starring the Grinch in a Limited Run

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
The Grinch hated Christmas! 
 The whole Christmas season!
 Now, please don't ask why. No one quite knows the reason.
 It could be that he insisted on wasteful work rules and was willing to walk out on Broadway to hold onto them.
 It could be, perhaps, that he was trying to take away honest work from stagehands without giving much in return. 
 Either that or the most likely reason of all
 May have been that his heart was two sizes too small.
 Helen E. Freedman, a judge of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, did not rule on those points specifically. No, when she granted an injunction yesterday forcing the St. James Theater to open for performances of ''Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical,'' she only made the question of who the Grinch was on Broadway this season that much more complicated.
 The theater had been closed since Nov. 10, just one day after ''The Grinch'' had opened, when the stagehands began a strike against most Broadway theaters. With the injunction granted, the show is now scheduled to open tomorrow for its 11 a.m. performance. The Jujamcyn theater chain, the owner of the St. James, has appealed and is seeking a hearing for a stay on Tuesday.
 ''The Grinch'' has been, in the words of its producers, a public relations football, kicked around by the stagehands' union, by the League of American Theaters and Producers, and by the ''Grinch'' producers themselves, all to the unfettered delight of news reporters and headline writers. There is no show that has played a more prominent and symbolic role over the 12 days of this strike.
 It was there that James J. Claffey Jr., the president of Local 1, the stagehands' union, was seen with his daughter on opening night, mingling with the theater owners that his union would be striking 15 hours later.
 It was there that the strike began, on the order of Local 1's parent union, the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. That was simply because the show's 11 a.m. performance time made it the first to run the day the strike commenced. From a public relations perspective, though, the timing was rather unfortunate for the union.
 ''Grinchy Strike'' read the headline in The New York Post. ''To come and tell them the Grinch really did steal Christmas is kind of sad,'' a mother of three was quoted as saying in The Daily News. All over the papers, including The New York Times, there were photographs of children crying next to stagehands, who were picketing under that wonderful, awful word: Grinch.
 But public relations was not the concern for James Sanna, the lead producer of ''The Grinch.'' 
 An open-ended show like ''Little Mermaid'' can make up lost money later, and sure enough, ''Mermaid'' announced this week that it was postponing its opening. A limited engagement like ''The Grinch'' is run on a much tighter economy. 
 While a play like ''August: Osage County'' can announce a three-week extension to its limited engagement to try to make up for some of the days lost to the strike, ''The Grinch'' is a Christmas show. Christmas gets no extensions. 
 So if ''The Grinch'' misses most of the holidays, that would be that: $6 million capitalization gone, no potential $17 million gross, no happy investors, perhaps no chance to bring the show back next year. Certainly no Who-pudding and no Who-roast-beast.
 The nearly perfectly named Mr. Sanna, who is not a member of the league, argued to the union that, for various contractual reasons, ''The Grinch'' was being unfairly picketed. Jujamcyn, he pointed out, did not impose new work rules on the stagehands last month, as was the case in all other league theaters.
 He pleaded and pleaded but to his disliking
 The picket line stayed and the strike kept on striking.
 But on Sunday night, around the time talks between the league and the union broke down, as the league was declaring that the 27 shows affected by the strike would stay closed through Thanksgiving week, Mr. Sanna received a phone call from Mr. Claffey saying the union was taking down the picket line at ''The Grinch.''
 Mr. Sanna was merry, and very, but there was a problem. Producers do not employ the Local 1 stagehands, the theaters do, and Jujamcyn officials told Mr. Sanna that if the stagehands were not striking, the theater would lock them out. 
 Jujamcyn is currently bargaining with the union, and the stagehands are picketing its four other theaters. As a tactic, the league could not let the union decide which theaters could stay open. Mr. Sanna was not satisfied.
 Press conferences followed. Actors sang in the street. 
 An injunction was sought, without missing a beat.
 On Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, Justice Freedman's courtroom was filled with child actors from the show, little girls with Grinch dolls and little boys with eyes that glazed over like candy apples when the serious men in gray suits discussed multi-employer bargaining associations.
 Mr. Sanna's lawyers argued that the lockout was a breach of contract by the theater owners. The Jujamcyn lawyers argued that the contract gave them the right to lock out workers in a labor dispute and that, by granting Mr. Sanna's injunction, the judge would be forcing Jujamcyn to hire stagehands from the union that was striking them.
 The lawyers sat down. And Justice Freedman began.
 ''I'm going to grant the injunction,'' she said. ''I think one Grinch in town is enough.''
 The children all clapped. The reporters discussed. 
 The Jujamcyn lawyers sat looking nonplused.
 The camera crews were waiting in front of the courthouse, where the holiday cliches fluttered down like snow.
 ''I'm happy to announce we got our miracle on 44th Street,'' said Mr. Sanna, surrounded by his young and happy cast. 
 ''Do the kids want to sing?'' a local television reporter asked.
 And at that, every Who down in Who-ville, the tall and the small, 
 Was singing! Without any presents at all!
 He hadn't stopped Christmas from coming!
 It came! 
 Somehow or other, it came just the same!
 Barring a successful appeal, that is.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a judge's ruling forcing the St. James Theater, part of the Jujamcyn theater chain, to open for performances of ''Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical'' referred imprecisely to a decision by the chain to impose new work rules last month on stagehands, who are now on strike. While it did not impose them on stagehands at the St. James, it did on the stagehands at its other four Broadway theaters. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); INJUNCTIONS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); MOVIE THEATERS (69%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



461 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Canada: Currency Rates Affect Retail

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Canadian retail sales fell unexpectedly in September, signaling that the economy might be slowing more than anticipated and building the case for an interest rate cut by the Bank of Canada. Statistics Canada said that a drop in new vehicle sales caused retail sales to fall 0.2 percent, below expectations. It was the first quarterly decline since 2003. The Canadian dollar passed parity with the United States dollar in September, and many Canadians began to shop in malls in the United States to take advantage of their currency's greater purchasing power, analysts said. Excluding dealers of new and used vehicles and parts, retail sales rose 0.1 percent in September. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); US DOLLAR (87%); NEW CAR DEALERS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



462 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Spared Cyclone's Worst, Area Still Suffers

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting from Dhaka, Bangladesh.

DATELINE: KANAINAGAR, Bangladesh, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
To the naked eye, this looks like a village that Cyclone Sidr barely grazed. Most of the houses are standing. No one has died. The trees are not even decapitated, as they are in so many hamlets swallowed by the storm.
 But in this part of the world, where life revolves around water, look more closely and see how the storm has fouled so much of everyday life. Rice fields are waterlogged. Shrimp ponds have rotted. Women worry what their children will drink once their pots of rainwater run out. Not enough water, too much water, dirty water. Water bedevils everyone. 
 Aid began to trickle in across the cyclone zone on Wednesday, nearly a week after the storm. In this village, a long line of supplicants received sacks of rice, lentils and salt, and the country's neighbors, allies and rivals seemed to fall over themselves to offer charity and succor.
 Pakistan, the country's former ruler, which Bangladesh fought a bitter war of independence against in 1971, announced that it would send two military planes full of medical supplies and blankets. India said that an air force cargo plane would arrive Thursday with 38 tons of aid.
 Two United States Navy vessels were en route and expected to arrive with helicopters within days. Saudi Arabia pledged $100 million early this week, the largest amount, until the World Bank offered $250 million on Wednesday. Whether and how soon the pledged support will materialize is a mystery.
 Neither the government nor aid agencies had an estimate on how much money was necessary to meet the humanitarian need, but a World Food Program assessment found that $30 million would be required for food just for the next three months. The United Nations resident representative for Bangladesh, Renata Lok Dessalien, said food, water and shelter were the immediate needs, and were all the more acute for cyclone victims who were already poor, likely to be malnourished and vulnerable to disease.
 Cyclone Sidr cut a wide and debilitating swath through southern Bangladesh. The government estimates that four million people have been affected, and the full scope of its impact may not be felt for many weeks. By the Bangladeshi Army's latest count, 3,167 people have died.
 In Kanainagar, near Dhaka, the capital, Sunita Mondol, 15, was feeling the cyclone's toll. She stood at the side of her family's pond Wednesday morning and found no more than two tiny shrimps clinging to her net. On a normal morning, she would haul in a full basket and take it to the market to sell. 
 But the storm had spoiled the pond, shaking the leaves and branches from the trees and fouling the water, so much that the shrimps died and floated belly up. On the first morning after the storm, Sunita and her family pulled up more than 13 pounds of dead fish. They threw most away.
 Families like hers, who make their living from selling the fish and shrimps they cultivate in their ponds, expect to feel the economic pinch of the cyclone for months. Every family in this village has a small pond, and family after family complained of theirs having been fouled.
 Half of the fish in Pinjira Begum's two big ponds floated belly up, which meant that her daily earnings plummeted by nearly half. The moneylender came to her home last Saturday for his weekly payment. ''We told him we didn't have money to buy rice for the children,'' she said. She gave him half of what she owed. He cursed her and left.
 Southern Bangladesh is one of the world's most productive shrimp hubs. Shrimp is one of the country's largest exports to the United States.
 The lucky ones here had rainwater left in their traditional earthen pots. Those whose water had run out, or whose pots had broken, had to drink the pond water, which had turned salty from seawater and had begun to stink from putrefying leaves.
 A rickshaw puller down the road wondered aloud how long it would be until dysentery struck. Even without a cyclone, he said, water brings a constant specter of disease. 
 In the hot months, when the rainwater stores run out and the ponds start drying up, the people of Kanainagar suffer rashes, dysentery and diarrhea. The cyclone made a chronic concern potentially acute. 
 ''Water is our main problem,'' said Alamgir Hossain. ''People get too sick to work, and still they have to buy medicine.''
 Across the Mongla River, Muhammad Nantu Mian worked feverishly to salvage what the water had not wrecked. His rice field was flooded, just two weeks before the harvest was due. The stalks were blown down like scarecrows by the brute wind. He had drained some of the water by cutting channels in his fields. He hired workers to cut what rice stalks had not yet rotted. He figured a third of his crop was gone.
 Normally, Mr. Mian said, he sold half of what he produced, saving the rest for his own family and for next year's seeds. This year, he said, he could reasonably hope to be able to feed his family, and not much more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cyclone survivors in Kanainagar, Bangladesh, lined up yesterday for free rice, lentils and salt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MALNUTRITION (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); FAMILY (77%); ARMIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NAVIES (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); HELICOPTERS (51%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (56%) BANGLADESH (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



463 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: The Brightest Sellers Have the Biggest Prices

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
JESSICA and MELANIE McDONALD, sisters from Baltimore and cute as the proverbial button, were in Bloomingdale's last Friday night. Shopping, what else? 
 The girls, 16 and 17 respectively, take the train from Baltimore at least once a month to stay with relatives and shop. ''We just like fashion,'' said Melanie, as if it weren't obvious from the $198 Free People slip dress hooked over her shoulders. Jessica had the same dress in her arm, as well as a $98 top.
 That's $494, plus train fare, and it was only Friday night for the intrepid McDonald sisters. If you think the retail business has been driven into a funk by unseasonably warm weather, distracted consumers and economic worries, you are correct. Consumer confidence has fallen to its lowest point in two years. And despite rave reviews for the quality and variety of fall fashion, stores have had their slowest season in a dozen years. 
 ''The apparel business is tougher than we're used to,'' said Frank Doroff, the general merchandising manager of Bloomingdale's. 
 But as tough as the season is, with predictions of a grim Christmas, it's hard to get a handle on the situation, and one source of ambiguity is the teenage girl. She may be clueless about subprime mortgages, but she has forced retailers, following the example of H & M, to be quicker and more responsive to new fashion.
 ''She just shops and shops,'' said Jane Elfers, the chief executive of Lord & Taylor, which has shifted more of its business, 20 percent in total, to youthful, so-called contemporary labels like Free People and Nanette Lepore. Indeed, according to Mr. Doroff, it's the contemporary customer who has helped lift the Bloomingdale's numbers in recent weeks.
 Another powerful stimulant, at least in New York, is the foreign shopper taking advantage of the weakened dollar. Between 7.6 million and 8 million international travelers are expected to visit the city this year, up from 7.2 million in 2006, according to NYC & Company, a marketing firm. ''For us, it's the right moment to be here,'' said Sophie Whettnall, an artist from Brussels, as she bought a pair of Prada shoes at Bergdorf Goodman last week, saving 30 percent because of the currency exchange rate.
 And then there's the affluent American, who may or may not be as highly leveraged as the rest of the economy. She lends still more ambiguity to the picture. While there were definite signs that she was not as excited by the fall collections as retailers and editors had hoped, she was hardly in retreat.
 At Nordstrom, where sales in stores open at least a year rose a soft 2.2 percent in the third quarter, executives said in a conference call on Monday that designer fashion was a leader, and that the retailer planned to continue to ''serve the growing affluent base.''
 No wonder: Coveted labels like Chanel and Lanvin provide hefty profit margins. According to a store spokeswoman, among the articles of clothing that Nordstrom could have sold more of were a $1,990 Oscar de la Renta puffed-sleeve cashmere sweater and a $5,300 Chanel chevron tweed jacket.
 It was the same story at Saks Fifth Avenue. This fall, the retailer sold 100 Oscar de la Renta cardigans with a ruffle around the neck for $2,190 each, and 50 black cap-sleeved Ralph Lauren dresses for $1,898 a pop. Twelve people had to have a kooky $615 Comme des Garcons jacket with hand prints on it.
 If a single department at the flagship Saks in Manhattan has been hotter than its new shoe salon, Ronald Frasch, the company vice chairman, can't think what that might be. Another profit source for stores like Saks and Bergdorf has been fine jewelry. Apparently a $5,000 ring can seem more special than a jacket.
 Meanwhile, down the avenue at Lord & Taylor, which is undergoing a makeover -- more lifestyle-enhancing products and fewer basics -- Ms. Elfers reports that early November sales were up 22 percent over the period a year ago. She says people want coats and cashmere sweaters, which alone are up 52 percent in sales. Two months ago during a heat wave you couldn't give the stuff away.
 But, with colder weather and a release of pent-up demand, people are spending. ''It's all happening now,'' she said.
 Retailers like Ms. Elfers aren't offering bromides. Facts are facts. Last Friday evening at Barneys in Manhattan a young woman named Carolyn Musher, the sales manager for California Closets in New York, bought a $700 pair of Christian Louboutin shoes and was considering a $1,000 pair of boots. Ms. Musher, dressed in jeans and a navy sweater, was shopping with her mother, Amy Musher, a former magazine editor who now sells vintage pottery online.
 And on the previous day, Megan Huston, a doctoral student in anthropology at Columbia, was holding an armload of clothes, mainly by Japanese and Belgian designers, that would soon go on sale. Like many women, Ms. Huston thinks prices are too high. But, she reasoned, ''they're only going to get higher and eventually I might be priced out completely.''
 What contributes to the sense of malaise over the fall season is that, while many women professed to love the new fashion -- the sophistication, the appeal of more womanly clothes -- they wound up buying very little. And it wasn't because of the weather or prices.
 Ashumi Sanghvi, a fashion student and an intern at Conde Nast, was at Bergdorf, dressed in a killer Saint Laurent suit from Tom Ford's last collection, four years ago. ''I feel I shopped a lot more last year,'' Ms. Sanghvi said. Looking around, she added: ''I think it's just the environment in the stores. It's dull and not very enthusiastic.''
 Retail experts and financial analysts seem to struggle for an explanation. Robert Burke, a retail consultant, said ''there were so many trends but not necessarily a new trend,'' and added, ''I don't know that there was an It bag this season.'' David Wolfe, the creative director of the Doneger Group, which advises stores on trends, said business was very good for fashion items, like three-quarter-length-sleeve jackets. ''People wanted anything that's new,'' he said. But wasn't that the headline of the fall's collections?
 So there may be something else holding people back from buying clothes, something that doesn't entirely square with the image of crowded Manhattan restaurants, wild art auctions and throbbing shoe salons. 
 ''Sure the economy is a factor if you know what's coming,'' said Peggy Shafiroff, whose husband works in the financial markets, as she was killing time at Henri Bendel before a hair appointment. Ms. Shafiroff said she had bought a Chanel bag this fall but that's it. There were lots of clothes she liked, but it kind of irked her, she said with a mild laugh, that ''everything now seems to cost $2,500.'' The message she got from her husband and their friends on Wall Street, she said, was ''batten down the hatches, the storm is coming.'' And considering other pressures, like energy costs, she thinks that's prudent.
 A private-equity manager at a leading bank who follows retail, and who requested anonymity, said, ''We may get by this year, but there's a lack of optimism in the country and I think that lack of optimism will put a damper on Christmas spending.'' Another source of concern, he said, echoing opinions in the art-auction market, is the staggering amounts of wealth in regions of the Middle East and Asia and the dominating effect such clout is likely to have.
 ''They're price-insensitive,'' he said of those areas, ''and that's going to be tough on Americans. We're not the richest guys on the block anymore.''
 Without exactly saying so, that may have been what Jeri Hansen, an interior designer in Brooklyn, was feeling as she browsed the racks at Bloomingdale's. With her red hair, and a smile on her face, Ms. Hansen looked very cheerful; it was her first time really out shopping this fall. She said: ''Fashion has become something like the middle class. There's the high quality at one end and the lower stuff at the other. The middle doesn't seem to be here anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UPSCALE SELLS: A Chanel dress at Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan. The label's $5,300 tweed jacket is a hot commodity, too.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G1)
SOMETHING'S CHANGED: ''I feel I shopped a lot more last year,'' Ashumi Sanghvi said at Bergdorf. Looking around, she added: ''I think it's just the environment in the stores.''
US WORRY?: Jessica, left, and Melanie McDonald, sisters from Baltimore, were in a buying mood at Bloomingdale's last Friday night.
CURRENCY'S CURRENCY: ''For us, it's the right moment to be here,'' said Sophie Whettnall, an artist from Brussels, referring to the weak dollar.
 NO MIDRANGE: Jeri Hansen from Brooklyn noted at Bloomingdale's that there was a high end and a low end and not much in between.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); TRAINS (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); EXECUTIVES (67%); US DOLLAR (66%); CHRISTMAS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (62%); EXCHANGE RATES (61%); CURRENCIES (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



464 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Worst, Air Travelers Find Smooth Going

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Reporting was contributed by Rebecca Cathcart in Long Beach, Calif.; Dan Frosch in Denver; Conrad Mulcahy and Nate Schweber in New York; Robert Strauss in Philadelphia; and Matthew L. Wald in Herndon, Va.

 BODY:
The confluence of good luck and better planning made much of yesterday a surprisingly smooth one for holiday travelers at many airports across the country, passengers, airline executives and their employees said.
 Eager to avoid crushing lines and frustrating delays, many travelers did not wait until yesterday to fly to their Thanksgiving Day destinations. Instead, they left Tuesday, which has become one of the busiest travel days of the year, or even earlier. 
 Many airlines, stung by lawmakers and a public furious with record-low on-time performance, beefed up customer service and operations teams. 
 Relatively mild weather yesterday and President Bush's decision to let airlines make fuller use of military airspace over the holiday also helped make things run more smoothly. 
 Interviews with scores of passengers at airports from coast to coast found that fears of passing much of the day reading or playing video games while waiting to board did not come to pass.
 ''I was expecting long lines, but I was the only one checking in,'' said Aston Armstrong, 21, a senior at West Point whose midafternoon flight from La Guardia for a trip to Fort Smith, Ark., was running 30 minutes late, a far cry from what she remembered watching on television last year as stranded crowds tried futilely to get to the holiday dinner. 
 Lori SoRelle, a travel agent, offered a slight grin as she walked off an escalator at Denver International Airport on her way to catch a plane to Washington. 
 ''Everything seems just fine,'' Ms. SoRelle said. ''I thought it was going to be much worse. This airport can be a mess.''
 The heavy volume of travelers checking luggage, passing through security and boarding made some delays unavoidable. As the day wore on, the weather created backups of up to two hours, similar to those of a normal weekday, at La Guardia and Newark Liberty International. 
 Similar weather-related delays occurred at Boston and Philadelphia airports, and flights between O'Hare International Airport in Chicago and the East Coast were delayed by up to an hour because of rain and heavy traffic. As nightfall approached, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles airports reported sporadic delays. By midnight, most delays had cleared up, although some flights bound for Newark were delayed by fog. 
 The airline industry, which is on track to record its busiest year, expects a record 27 million passengers in the 12-day period that began last Friday, according to forecasts by the Air Transport Association of America. That is a 4 percent increase from the same period last year.
 Planes are likely to run at 90 percent of capacity, also a record, the trade group said. With few extra seats or planes available, storms or mechanical failures could undo efforts by airlines and airport operators to avoid the huge delays that have become as much a part of Thanksgiving Day lore as stuffing and cranberries.
 ''The system is tight as a drum, and if something goes wrong, there's little way to fix it,'' said George Hamlin, managing director of Airline Capital Associates, an industry consultant. ''Unlike the president's pardoning a turkey or two, the flying public doesn't pardon the airlines.''
 By and large, efforts by carriers and airports appeared to have reaped some dividends. At Denver, which has had the longest wait times at security checkpoints over the past year, the Transportation Security Administration added workers and two screening lanes.
 Security lines moved briskly yesterday morning, and travelers expecting the requisite madness seemed surprised as they approached the airport's two primary checkpoints.
 Erin Moore, who was traveling to Santa Barbara, Calif., with her husband and two sons, said she had seen busier days at Denver. ''It's actually better than it usually is,'' Ms. Moore said. ''We got here two hours early because we thought there'd be such a wait.''
 That surprise was registered at Philadelphia International, where hundreds of parking spaces were recently added. William Johnson had heard horror stories about trying to park on busy days there and decided to arrive three hours early..
 ''Then I get there, and boom, boom, boom, I'm in the economy parking lot and, all right, maybe I had to drive around for a little bit, but I found a parking space, so I'm just relieved,'' said Mr. Johnson, who was flying to Chicago with his wife and two sons for a weekend with relatives. 
 The Strategic Command Center of the Federal Aviation Administration began its workday in Herndon, Va., two hours early, at 5:15 a.m., a practice usually reserved for big snowstorms.
 American Airlines, which opened a $1.3 billion terminal at Kennedy International this year, has security checkpoints and gates that can move customers faster than before. American is using new software to dispatch crews, aircraft and baggage, said the managing director of customer experience, Mark Mitchell. 
 JetBlue hired dozens of customer service agents at Kennedy, its hub. Executives from headquarters in New York are also working as ''holiday helpers,'' directing passengers to the counters and gates. 
 Fliers may be flocking to airports in part because fares have risen modestly. Some passengers, trying to avoid expensive tickets, left as early as last Friday for cheaper fares. 
 Although fares over all are 4 percent to 6 percent higher than last year's, airlines have been discounting off-peak days like the holiday itself.
 But fliers who bought tickets in the summer had the best prices. 
 ''Definitely this year, the early birds got the worm,'' said Rick Seaney, chief executive of FareCompare.com. 
 Tickets have risen as many as nine times since the summer, meaning that ''someone who bought before Labor Day paid up to $60 less,'' Mr. Seaney said.
 Travelers who left for the airport especially early trying to beat the crush found that they had time on their hands before boarding. Others were happily surprised when they arrived at their destinations.
 At John Wayne Airport in Orange County, Calif., the Raley family collected luggage in the morning from a carousel that creaked to life. 
 ''When we left our home in Reno, it was 5 a.m., dark and cold,'' said Bill Raley, who owns an automobile repair shop in Sparks, Nev. ''We wanted to beat the crowds. But it's pretty calm here.'' 
 Michael Rosenberg, 49, a volunteer customer service agent, or ''airport ambassador,'' wore a red vest and a gold watch as he guided travelers through the unusually short security line.
 ''All the staff today are kind of looking at each other like, What's going on here?'' Mr. Rosenberg said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Denver International, a leader in security delays, workers and checkpoint lines were added. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Father and daughters, left, on the way to board at Newark Liberty International. A contingent of Rockettes performed for Amber Wasendorf and her son Erik, 2, at O'Hare in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS
 M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A33) CHART: DELAYS AT THE AIRPORTS: The on-time performance of the nation's airlines. Figures are through September for all years. (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) (pg. A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); THANKSGIVING (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); WEATHER (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (60%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT SMITH, AR, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



465 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: An Alternative to Annuities For Retirees Seeking Income

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
When they were young, members of the baby boom generation did not do things the way their parents did. But now, as they start to retire, some may wish they could retire the way their parents did. 
 For starters, the 78.2 million baby boomers, born from 1946 to 1964, are far less likely to have traditional pension plans paying lifetime benefits. And many older and mid-generation baby boomers have slim personal savings because they failed to catch on fast enough to the 401(k) defined-contribution plans their employers introduced in the early 1980s. With greater longevity, exploding health care costs and global market volatility, baby boomers risk outliving their assets. 
 And that is exactly where the financial services industry would like to come in. Already, mutual fund companies have started to roll out new products to manage the savings of retirees and parcel it out to them -- competing directly with insurance companies. 
 ''The struggle for boomer dollars is one of the great battlefields in the financial sector,'' said Olivia S. Mitchell, a professor of employee benefit plans and insurance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''And the battle royal is between insurers and mutual fund companies.'' 
 In the past, retirees had two ways to live on assets. ''You either managed your lump sum yourself or locked it up in an annuity, an insurance product that makes payments to you for life,'' said Craig Copeland, a senior associate with the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit organization in Washington. ''Now, the mutual fund companies are trying to fill that void with products giving you access to your money and an income stream.'' 
 John B. Shoven, the director of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research at Stanford University, says the retirement ideal is lifetime guaranteed payments plus Social Security. ''But with workers increasingly retiring without pensions and annuities' drawbacks, the new payout funds sure beat burning through lump sums, which I've seen many people do,'' he said.
 In the first quarter of 2007, there was a total of $16.6 trillion in the United States retirement system, according to the Investment Company Institute, the trade association for mutual fund companies. Mutual fund companies managed 47 percent of the $4.4 trillion in individual retirement accounts and 52 percent of the $4.2 trillion in 401(k)s and other defined-contribution plans, the association estimates. 
 The bulk of that mutual fund money ''is owned by baby boomers, who are just entering their retirement years,'' said the association's spokesman, Edward F. Giltenan. ''It's too early to tell exactly how they will segment and spend their savings.'' 
 Some are bound to go into annuities, which had a total $1.9 trillion under management in 2006, according to NAVA, the annuity industry trade association based in Reston, Va.
 ''Obviously, the entire financial services sector is interested in knowing how much money is flowing from mutual funds to annuities when people reach retirement age, but I don't know anyone who has that information yet,'' said Kathleen Driscoll McKee, a NAVA spokeswoman. 
 Whatever that flow turns out to be, the new payout funds are meant to stop it.
 In September, Vanguard, the mutual fund company, announced that it would open three managed payout funds early next year. The new funds will use three-year averages to make annual distributions of 3, 5 or 7 percent, meted out monthly. 
 Offering no guarantee, Vanguard aims to avoid reducing investments while making distributions, as a university endowment does. ''Our research shows people want to maintain a level of principal well into later years in order to make bequests, and they want full access to it for emergencies,'' said Ellen Rinaldi, who leads Vanguard's investment counseling and research group. 
 Fidelity Investments, based in Boston and the nation's largest mutual fund company, opened 11 income replacement funds in October. These funds of funds eventually exhaust retirees' investment by returning it, plus earnings, in structured payments over set periods. Fidelity also rolled out a new annuity.
 ''We're putting together as many investment building blocks as we can to give investors flexibility in designing a retirement income plan,'' said Boyce Greer, Fidelity's president for fixed income and asset allocation. ''I think one of the ways we'll see retirees use the income-replacement funds is to cover discretionary expenses while pensions and annuities cover fixed ones.'' 
 Annuities, which function primarily to protect against outliving assets, are often shunned by consumers, after learning of their drawbacks. Fixed annuities lock up principal and do not offset inflation. The costs of variable annuities commonly exceed those of mutual funds, and their monthly payments may fall when underlying investments lose value. 
 Errold F. Moody Jr., a financial planner based in San Leandro, Calif., said he liked Fidelity's new variable annuity because in a volatile market it allows payments to increase while also keeping them from falling below an initial established floor. ''But all annuities are complex, and most people need expert help to decide if one fits their retirement plan,'' he cautioned.
 Jeffrey Tuckfelt, a 58-year-old lawyer in Washington with a private practice in consumer bankruptcy and real estate, said he found annuities appealing because his family has a history of living long. With no pension but savings and inheritance totaling about $1 million, Mr. Tuckfelt said he was considering investing in a second career in real estate. ''And buying an annuity is probably a good bet for me because both my parents lived to 94,'' he said. The father of three, Mr. Tuckfelt said he had not planned for retirement but will when his fiancee insists. 
 His fiancee, Marilyn Park, 52, is a mother of three teenagers and is a lobbyist with the American Federation of Government Employees. An analysis of Ms. Park's retirement plan shows that Social Security and small pensions from government, academic and union jobs will not cover expenses. She is counting on her tax-deferred savings to fill the gap. 
 Ms. Park is enthusiastic about the payout funds. ''I love the idea of my money being managed conservatively and parceled out to me,'' she said. ''I've lived by paychecks all my working days, and I'll be calmer in retirement knowing my monthly income.'' Ms. Park says she prefers Vanguard's approach because she wants to leave money to her children. 
 Baby boomers like Ms. Park, who started planning in their 30s, stand to have the best retirements, according to Jack L. VanDerhei, a retirement specialist and professor at the Fox School of Business and Management at Temple University. ''Between 50 and 55, many people, including highly educated ones, are just starting to think about it. When they come to me for advice, I have to refrain from asking why they didn't do it 20 years ago.'' 
 For new retirees in a squeeze, the payout funds may be useful, said Percy E. Bolton, a financial planner in Pasadena, Calif. He gave the example of a teacher with pension benefits, Social Security and savings in a defined- contribution 403(b) plan. She wants to stop teaching and meet expenses, but her retirement plan shows she can do that only by exhausting savings. 
 ''She could put them in a Fidelity fund with structured payments so she has real numbers to work with,'' Mr. Bolton suggested. Then she can make gradual changes, including finding new ways to earn or reduce overhead. ''She gives herself timeto find a good solution,'' he said, ''and she cannot do that under stress.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marilyn Park, left, and Jeffrey Tuckfelt plan their retirement. Such planning is growing as members of the baby boom generation see themselves at added risk of outliving their assets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Saving, but Not Enough: In a survey conducted in January 2007, baby boomers (those born from 1946 to 1964) were asked how much money they and their spouses had in savings and investments, not including the value of their primary residence. Of all respondents, about 28 percent had less than $10,000.(Source: Tabulations from Employee Benefit Research Institute and Mathew Greenwald & Associates Inc. 2007 Retirement Confidence Survey) Chart shows graph for AMOUNT HELD IN SAVINGS AND INVESTMENTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (93%); INSURANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



466 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plummet as Investors Struggle With 'Ugly Week'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Carter Dougherty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A late sell-off sent stock markets down sharply yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing at its lowest level since April. The plunge came as investors remain frightened and uncertain about a credit crisis that does not show any signs of easing.
 ''Sentiment just keeps getting more and more bleak,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''This week it's been all about fear overtaking greed.'' 
 Widespread worries about expensive oil, a sagging dollar and a gloomy outlook for economic growth took a toll on investors, who fled to the safety of relatively stable government bonds. 
 Oil prices flirted with the symbolic number of $100 a barrel, and markets in Asia and Europe dropped as investors wondered if the United States economy would slow more than expected. And the dollar fell to yet another record low against the euro. 
 The Dow Jones industrials, off less than 100 points shortly before 3 p.m., finished down 211.10 points, to 12,799.04, a 1.6 percent decline. It was the lowest close since April 19. The index fell even below the low ebb of trading during the summer's credit crisis, when it finished at 12,845.78 on Aug. 16. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broad measure of the equity market, is now down 0.11 percent for the year. The index fell 22.93 points yesterday, or 1.6 percent, to 1,416.77. 
 ''This is an ugly week,'' Mr. Paulsen said. 
 The Dow has lost 2.9 percent of its value in the last three days alone. The problems stem from broad uncertainty among investors, said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P. 
 With banks announcing new write-downs from bad bets on mortgage-backed securities and even venerable firms like Freddie Mac starting to share the pain, the fallout from the housing and credit turmoil is still making its way across the broader economy. 
 ''Where do you put your money today?'' Mr. Silverblatt asked. ''You don't know when the other shoe is going to drop.''
 Stocks dropped at the opening bell and never made it out of the red. Ailing financial shares were hit again, with the major brokerage firms all recording deep losses. 
 Crude oil futures briefly rose above $99 in overnight trading, and an Energy Department report showed that inventories fell slightly last week. That left investors wondering how soon oil will be nudged above its inflation-adjusted record high of $102, in 1980. Oil settled in New York trading at $97.29, down 74 cents. 
 The yield on Treasuries -- a traditional safe haven for investors -- hit two-year lows yesterday; the yield on the 10-year note dropped below 4 percent in midday trading, closing at 4.01 percent at 5 p.m. 
 ''People don't know where to put their money at this point, so they're basically giving it to the government,'' said Dennis Davitt, who oversees equity derivative trading for Credit Suisse. ''You'll pay the government to hold your money because it's the only place people trust.''
 Economic data released yesterday reinforced the sense of gloom. Consumer sentiment fell to its lowest level since October 2005, according to a survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters. An index that tracks economic indicators declined as well, the Conference Board said.
 The reports dovetail with a shaky economic outlook released by the Federal Reserve on Tuesday that predicted a slowdown in growth over the coming months.
 Meanwhile, in what vendors hope will not be a bad omen for Black Friday, the retail giant Limited Brands posted a 48 percent drop in third-quarter earnings and lowered its end-of-year outlook. The company owns Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works and other shopping mall mainstays. Shares of Limited dropped sharply but later recovered to close up 2.4 percent, at $17.95.
 Some market watchers suggested that lower trading levels during a holiday week might make the market more volatile, but at least one analyst disputed that notion. ''I don't know of anyone taking a day off,'' said Mr. Davitt, of Credit Suisse. ''Not in these conditions.''
 The dollar closed above $1.48 against the euro, still shy of the $1.50 milestone. But nothing suggests the dollar will be able to muster a sustained comeback anytime soon.
 Investor confidence took a direct hit on Tuesday after Freddie Mac, considered a backstop for the mortgage industry, said it lost $2 billion last quarter after a rise in foreclosures tied to subprime mortgage defaults. 
 Aftershocks of the announcement were still being felt yesterday. An overnight rout in foreign markets reflected a growing sense that the besieged housing market, which once helped American consumers buy the world's products and services, has not hit bottom.
 In foreign markets, credit market anxiety has increased in recent weeks as banks hoard cash in anticipation of year-end obligations. Dollar and euro-based borrowing benchmarks in London have edged upward, raising the cost of short-term credit.
 ''It's getting worse,'' said Stephen Jen, global head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. ''In reality we know things are getting worse, and expectations of the U.S. economy and the credit markets are getting revised down.'' 
 Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital, a perennial bull, offered a contrary view. He said that much of the crisis had affected only a small portion of the population, namely Wall Street.
 ''This thing hasn't been about people losing their jobs and their incomes,'' he said. ''It's been more about C.E.O.'s getting fired, banks writing off hedge fund losses and a showdown between Wall Street and the Fed.'' 
 Still, Mr. Paulsen acknowledged that the recent stock sell-off might have a psychological impact on the public. 
 ''Every day the market goes down,'' he said, ''it just adds to whatever worries you have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Mercantile Exchange, where oil futures settled at $97.29 yesterday after touching $99 a barrel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EURO (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INVENTORIES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



467 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Economic Forecast Index Sees Weakness Into 2008

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The economy may continue to slow into 2008, according to a measure of its performance over the next three to six months.
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its index of leading economic indicators fell 0.5 percent in October after a 0.1 percent September increase that was smaller than previously estimated. A separate report showed consumer confidence weakened this month. 
 The figures, coming a day after the Federal Reserve lowered its growth forecast for next year, added to concern that the credit collapse is causing consumers and businesses to cut spending.
 ''There is a definite pattern of weakening here,'' said Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, who correctly forecast the decline in the leading index. ''It's all consistent with deceleration in the economy and that includes some deceleration in the labor market.''
 Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist, said in a statement: ''The data are pointing to a continued slow economy. It might even slow a little more after the holidays.'' 
 Rising fuel costs and the slump in housing spurred a drop in the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index to 76.1 in November, the lowest level since October 2005, after Hurricane Katrina. The index was at 80.9 in October.
 Government figures yesterday also showed that initial claims for unemployment insurance held at a level that indicates a softening job market. The Labor Department said claims decreased by 11,000, to 330,000, in the week that ended Nov. 17.
 The leading economic indicator index is down at an annual pace of 1 percent over the last six months, short of the approximate 4 percent drop that Conference Board economists have said is required to signal a recession.
 Seven of the index's 10 components declined, led by the 6.6 percent slump in building permits that was reported by the Commerce Department on Tuesday. 
 Seven of the components are known before the report: initial jobless claims, consumer expectations, building permits, supplier deliveries, the yield curve, stock prices and factory hours. The Conference Board estimates three others: money supply adjusted for inflation, new orders for consumer goods and orders for nonmilitary capital goods.
 The Conference Board's index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current economic activity, was unchanged in October after increasing 0.2 percent in September. The index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and production.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 =100.(Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%); YIELD CURVE (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



468 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

 BODY:
MARKETS LIMP INTO HOLIDAY
 A late sell-off sent stock markets down sharply, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing at its lowest level since April. Widespread worries about expensive oil, a sagging dollar and a gloomy outlook for economic growth took a toll on investors. 
 The economy may continue to slow into 2008, according to the Conference Board's measure of leading economic indicators. [C3.] 
 CONSUMERS PROMPT A RECALL The Consumer Product Safety Commission's latest recall of lead jewelry -- half a million pieces -- was prompted by test results provided by a man and his 10-year-old daughter, the newest example of citizen action leading to recalls. [C1.] 
 ISLAMIC BANKING ON THE RISE Rising oil wealth is lifting Islamic banking -- banking that adheres to the laws of the Koran and its prohibition against charging interest -- into the financial mainstream, as multinational institutions like Citigroup, HSBC and Deutsche Bank enter the business. [C1.] 
 PLEASE STAY Law firms are becoming creative as they try to attract and keep top-notch talent. The inducements include personal concierges, sabbaticals and, at one firm, niceties dreamed up by a happiness committee. [C1.] 
 A TRAVEL DAY IS TOLERABLE Good luck and better planning made yesterday a surprisingly smooth one for holiday travelers at many airports across the country, according to travelers, airline executives and their employees. [A1.] 
 The Federal Aviation Administration's Strategic Command Center in Herndon, Va., started early on the day before Thanksgiving, holding its first conference call with the airlines at 5:15 a.m. [A33.] 
 GAP PROFIT IS UP, BUT SALES LAG Gap Inc. said that its third-quarter profit rose 26 percent as marketing costs fell. But the company's cost-cutting campaign could not compensate for a slowdown in sales at its Gap and Old Navy chains. Companywide revenue was flat, and same-store sales -- at stores open at least a year -- fell 5 percent. [C2.] 
 AN IPHONE FOR $1,500 Deutsche Telekom, whose exclusive rights for the Apple iPhone in Germany are contested by the Vodafone Group, said that it would offer the device for 999 euros ($1,483) without requiring a two-year exclusive contract with its T-Mobile unit. [C3.] 
 THRIVING IN A CHANGING WORLD To get a picture of how migration is changing the world, consider Western Union, which earns nearly $1 billion a year helping poor migrants across the globe send money home. With five times as many locations as McDonald's, Starbucks, Burger King and Wal-Mart combined, Western Union provides an infrastructure for global migration. [A1.] 
 A BRAND BUILT ON OPTIMISM
 Life is, indeed, good for Bert Jacobs and his brother John. From a single childlike drawing of a character they named Jake and their uplifting three-word slogan, the brothers have developed a fashion brand sold in 4,500 independent retail outlets in the United States and 27 other countries. Since 1994, they have sold nearly 20 million Life is good T-shirts and the company continues to grow 30 to 40 percent annually. Small Business. [C5.] 
 YOUR ROCK 'N' ROLL FANTASY The season's biggest video game craze requires a guitar -- or at least a plastic gadget that looks like a guitar -- and enough imagination to pretend you're standing in front of thousands of screaming fans. Basics. [C7.] 
 JUDGE ORDERS 'GRINCH' TO OPEN In a case that spotlighted the tangled interests behind the Broadway stagehands' strike, a judge ordered a theater to restart its performances of ''Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical.'' [B1.] 
 COMPETITION FOR ANNUITIES Mutual fund companies have started to introduce new products to manage the savings of retirees and parcel it out to them -- competing directly with insurance companies for the lucrative baby boom retirement market. [C3.] 
 MOTOROLA MAY SEEK AWARD Motorola may seek $1 billion in punitive damages from the former owners of a Turkish wireless carrier, a federal court ruled, rejecting claims that the former owners cannot afford to pay the amount. [C3.] .
 THEY JUST KEEP ON SHOPPING The retail business is undeniably in a funk, but there are segments of the consumer market that lend ambiguity to the picture, like teenage girls, who may be clueless about subprime mortgages but who continue to shop and shop and force stores to be more responsive to new fashion. [G1.] 
 GMAC SHOPPING FOR A LENDER The finance company GMAC is exploring the sale of parts of its troubled mortgage-lending arm, Residential Capital, and the purchase of a non-American mortgage lender. It did not identify the target, but speculation was directed at Northern Rock, a distressed British financier that is seeking a buyer. [C5.] 
 SEEKING TO END A DEAL Cerberus Capital Management, still trying to scuttle its $4 billion purchase of United Rentals Inc., said that it had filed a request for declaratory judgment in New York State Supreme Court. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (74%); ISLAMIC BANKING (74%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); CIVIL AVIATION (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); SMARTPHONES (66%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); GAP INC (82%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%); APPLE INC (52%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (52%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (52%); WESTERN UNION CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (57%); CITIZEN ACTION FUND (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GPS (NYSE) (82%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (52%); DTE (FRA) (52%); DTE (BIT) (52%); VOD (NASDAQ) (52%); VOD (LSE) (52%); WU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



469 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Save Lebanon, Again

 BODY:
Nearly three years after the assassination of the former prime minister Rafik Hariri -- the suspected handiwork of Syria -- the struggle for Lebanon's soul continues. Tomorrow is the deadline for Parliament to pick a new president, but the country's parties, divided by religious and personal rivalries and stoked by Syria and Iran, are deadlocked. There are fears of renewed civil war if a compromise is not found. 
 At least two-thirds of Lebanon's legislators normally must be present in Parliament for the vote. Anti-Syrian forces hold a slim majority, and pro-Syrian members are threatening not to show unless there is agreement on a candidate. Members allied with the pro-Western, anti-Syrian government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora have threatened to convene without the opposition and elect a new president by simple majority.
 France, the United Nations and the Arab League, meanwhile, have been unable to persuade Lebanon's factions to compromise despite weeks of diplomacy. With the deadline looming, the United States has hinted that if the stalemate continues it would support a move by pro-government parliamentarians to elect a president by a simple majority. That could prompt Lebanon's current pro-Syrian president to name a rival government -- a recipe for violence. France, the United States and other allies, must make it clear to all sides how much they will lose if the country devolves into chaos. 
 Lebanon's problems are made far worse by a system that divides top offices among rival and distrustful Sunni, Shiite and Christian communities. Its impoverished, under-represented Shiite minority has been increasingly radicalized into the arms of Hezbollah, which has a party in Parliament and a heavily armed militia. 
 A good part of Hezbollah's power and appeal are the cash and the weapons it gets from Iran via Syria. Any strategy for stabilizing Lebanon must find a way to pressure Hezbollah to put down its weapons and start playing politics by the rules. The United States and its European allies will have to begin a serious dialogue with Syria to see if it can be coaxed and pressured to rein in Hezbollah. All must make clear that Lebanon's sovereignty will not be traded away, but also that there are economic and security advantages if Damascus helps.
 President Bush's Israeli-Palestinian peace meeting in Annapolis next week would be a good place to start delivering that message. We hope that his aides are working hard to persuade Syria to attend. Lebanon is the president's last viable project for expanding democracy in the Middle East. We fear if something isn't done quickly, that too will unravel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: FOUAD SINIORA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (77%) MARYLAND USA (77%) LEBANON (98%); SYRIA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



470 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Adapting Finance to Islam

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia 

 BODY:
Rising oil wealth is lifting Islamic banking -- banking that adheres to the laws of the Koran and its prohibition against charging interest -- into the financial mainstream. 
 Big banks, including Citigroup, HSBC and Deutsche Bank, as well as financial capitals like London, Tokyo and Hong Kong, are all going into the Islamic banking business. An estimated 300 Islamic financial institutions hold at least $500 billion in assets, an amount that is increasing more than 10 percent a year. 
 In addition to Islamic loans, there are Islamic bonds, Islamic credit cards and even Islamic derivatives. Loans and bonds that conform to the Koran are already available in the United States. Britain, Japan and Thailand are contemplating issuing Islamic bonds of their own.
 In Islamic banking, financiers are required to share borrowers' risks, meaning that depositors are treated more like shareholders, earning a portion of profits. Financing deals resemble lease-to-own arrangements, layaway plans, joint purchase and sale agreements, or partnerships. 
 ''This is an industry on its way from a niche industry to becoming a truly global industry,'' said Khawaja Mohammad Salman Younis, the managing director for operations in Malaysia for Kuwait Finance House, the world's second-largest Islamic bank, after Al-Rajhi Bank. ''In the next three to five years you'll see Islamic banks coming out in Australia, China, Japan and other parts of the world.'' 
 The stampede into Islamic finance is mostly an effort to tap an estimated $1.5 trillion of funds sloshing around the Middle East, largely from higher oil prices. While a lot of this oil money was parked in the United States, Britain and Switzerland before Sept. 11, 2001, bankers say many wealthy Arabs are investing closer to home, in part to avoid the hassle of increased scrutiny. At the same time, many Middle Eastern investors are eager to capitalize on Asia's breakneck growth.
 By some estimates, as much as $800 billion of Arab money has moved from the United States and Europe to other regions. Those investments have helped ignite an economic revival throughout the Muslim world at a time of increasing religious conservatism among Islam's 1.6 billion faithful. 
 A result is expanding demand for financial services that adhere to Islamic law, or Shariah. ''The middle class have the luxury of making these Islamic versus non-Islamic decisions,'' said Nordin Abdullah, who runs KasehDia, a firm in Kuala Lumpur that advises companies on how to comply with Shariah. ''They're educated and have money.''
 Last year, Saudi Arabia's largest lender, National Commercial Bank, overhauled its entire retail business to make it Shariah-compliant. Tunisia and Morocco authorized their first Islamic banks this year.
 And while the biggest Islamic banks are in the wealthy gulf states, the most attractive potential markets are in Turkey and North Africa and among Europe's Muslims. Indonesia, the most populous Muslim nation, with more than 190 million Muslims, is the mother lode.
 Malaysia, a predominantly Muslim nation with a secular government and a fast-growing, export-driven economy, has emerged as a center for the industry's development. Here, even non-Muslims are taking advantage of a growing range of Islamic products offering competitive returns. 
 For instance, David Ong-Yeoh, a public relations executive tired of fretting over the rising interest rate on his adjustable-rate mortgage, refinanced to a 30-year fixed loan from an Islamic financial institution. Now, he pays regular installments that include a predetermined profit margin for the bank. 
 ''The terms are better than on conventional loans,'' Mr. Ong-Yeoh, 41, said.
 Islamic finance also avoids practices prohibited under Shariah: Islamic bankers cannot receive or provide funds for anything involving alcohol, gambling, pornography, tobacco, weapons or pork.
 Proponents of Islamic banking say these are limits any socially conscious investor can support, Muslim or not. They also envision wider appeal for Islamic banking's ban on interest, which stems from the Koran's prohibition against usury.
 That's a view that has a long religious and historical tradition. Charging high interest rates to lend money is repeatedly condemned in the Bible. The Greek philosopher Aristotle denounced it, the Romans limited it, and the early Christian church prohibited it.
 Western theologians eventually distinguished interest from usury, and it was reintroduced to Christians and Muslims around the time of the Renaissance. 
 But when Britain took advantage of Egypt's mounting foreign debt in 1875 to buy Egypt's stake in the Suez Canal and occupy the country, it generated a backlash against traditional banking in the Muslim world. The belief that all interest charges are unjust now underpins Islamic finance.
 ''It's about respecting the interests of the different parties, avoiding taking advantage of any situation of any counterparty and putting in place fair treatment,'' said Rasheed Mohammed al-Maraj, governor of the central bank of Bahrain.
 Hoarding is frowned on in the Koran, so savings earn no return unless put to productive use. ''Money should be used for creating better value in the country or the economy,'' Mr. Maraj said. ''Money cannot generate money.''
 Islamic banks cannot simply trade money either. ''In the Islamic finance model, the banks are supposed to mobilize funds through a fund management concept,'' said Rafe Haneef, head of Islamic banking in Asia for Citigroup.
 Indeed, Islamic banking is supposed to function more like private equity firms than conventional banking. ''Private equity is an Islamic concept,'' Mr. Haneef said.
 Industry proponents say this risk-sharing requirement helps reduce the kind of abuses that led to the subprime mortgage mess. Scholars consider it un-Islamic to overload a customer with debt or invest in a company with excessive debt.
 But this approach has inherent problems. Because Islamic financial transactions must have an underlying asset, Islamic bankers tend to have high exposure to real estate and construction projects. Hedging that exposure is difficult -- though Islamic derivatives exist, scholars differ on whether they are permissible under the Koran. 
 ''There's a general acceptance that risk needs to be managed and therefore some form of financial instrument needs to be developed,'' said Zeti Akhtar Aziz, governor of Malaysia's central bank. But ''in Islamic finance you can't have such securities,'' he added. ''We need to be able to look at some of the issues that revolve around this.''
 Islamic financial institutions have to depend on their own boards of Shariah scholars to approve every product. Shariah scholars are rare, and those with financial understanding even rarer, so many scholars sit on several boards, earning up to $100,000 in retainers.
 ''If they're complaining there is a shortage, what are they doing to solve this problem?'' asked Sheikh Nizam Yaquby, a scholar based in Bahrain who sits on the boards of Citigroup, A.I.G. and HSBC, among others. He noted that Shariah scholars still earn less than accountants or corporate lawyers.
 As part of longstanding efforts to develop the industry, Malaysia has created scholarships and training programs. Governor Zeti's father, Ungku Abdul Aziz, established the first modern Islamic financial institution, Tabung Haji, in 1962 to help poor Malays finance pilgrimages to Mecca and to mobilize rural savings. 
 Later, the Malaysian government set up Islamic banks as part of a reformist platform to promote national development and blunt the appeal of fundamentalist Islamic political rivals.
 In early 2001, the government began offering tax incentives aimed at converting at least a fifth of the nation's assets to Islamic finance by 2010. (Currently, they make up roughly 12 percent.) With China siphoning away some economic opportunities from Malaysia, Islamic finance has become part of a broader effort to lure tourism, trade and investment from the Middle East. 
 ''We are trying to position ourselves as being acceptable to the Middle East, to petrodollars,'' said Wong Fook-Wah, chief executive of RAM Rating Services in Kuala Lumpur. ''Hopefully they'll fund economic growth in Malaysia.''
 In the early 1990s, Malaysia devised the first Islamic bond, or sukuk (suh-KOOK), an accomplishment it expanded on in 2002 by issuing the first global sukuk, raising $600 million. Now the global sukuk market totals $82.2 billion, with Malaysia accounting for two-thirds of it.
 But as the price of oil has rebounded, Islamic finance has boomed elsewhere. 
 Sukuk issuance in the gulf is set to overtake Malaysia. Britain, which licensed its first Islamic bank in 2004, plans to issue its own sukuk. The Bank for International Cooperation in Japan is planning a $300 million sukuk. And in July, a Texas-based oil firm, East Cameron Partners, issued the first American sukuk, raising $165.7 million.
 Clearly, faith is not the only thing driving the market. At Kuwait Finance House's Malaysian unit, Mr. Younis said, 40 percent of its depositors and 60 percent of its borrowers are non-Muslims.
 ''We look at these things just like Apple or Berkshire Hathaway,'' said E-lene Kee, a Buddhist corporate lawyer here who advises clients to use Islamic loans to finance construction projects.
 Mr. Ong-Yeoh feels the same. ''It's just taking advantage of the system,'' he said. After taking out an Islamic loan for his home, he took another for his car.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Citibank building in central Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. A number of big banks are adding Islamic banking businesses, in line with the Koran's prohibition against charging interest. Money is lent with a set profit margin for the lender.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PALANI MOHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ward Stone, a New York State wildlife pathologist, in his lab in New Scotland, N.Y., with items that tested positive for lead.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Khawaja Mohammad Salman Younis, the managing director for operations in Malaysia for Kuwait Finance House.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PALANI MOHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLAMIC BANKING (95%); RELIGION (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); RETAILERS (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK OF ST VINCENT (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK OF GRENADA LTD (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK OF ST LUCIA (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK SAL (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO LTD (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK OF ALBANIA (50%); NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANK LTD (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HONG KONG (92%); KUWAIT (92%); THAILAND (79%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MOROCCO (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



471 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Aquarium Wins FEMA Pay for Fishing Trips

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Reversing a decision that some found bureaucratically absurd, the Federal Emergency Management Agency granted $99,766 to the New Orleans Audubon Aquarium of the Americas on Wednesday for the expense of restocking a fish collection lost to Hurricane Katrina. 
 The agency had said that the aquarium should use $616,849 to buy the fish from commercial vendors, a method it said would comply with disaster-aid laws. But when aquarium staff members went out and caught the fish for $99,766, the agency denied their petition for reimbursement, even though it saved taxpayers more than half a million dollars.
 A dispute over the case dragged on for 17 months until aquarium staff members received a letter Wednesday from Carlos Castillo, assistant director of disaster assistance at the agency, saying that ''the applicant has demonstrated that it was more cost effective to catch the replacement fish.'' 
 Melissa Lee, a spokeswoman for the aquarium, said it would use the money to help it rebound from nine months of being closed after the hurricane. A linchpin of the city's tourism-based economy, the aquarium is seeing only 70 percent of its pre-storm visitors and has been forced to lay off 80 percent of its staff.
 ''We felt confident that our appeal would go through,'' Ms. Lee said. ''But, of course, it's a nice Thanksgiving. We'll be able to use this to make things better at the aquarium.''
 The agency initially denied the aquarium's petition because it believed catching new fish improved the collection. Under the Stafford Act, the agency said, facilities cannot be improved with federal money, only restored to their predisaster condition.
 Allison Morgan, a spokeswoman for the Governor's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, which fought for approval on the aquarium's behalf, said the case underscored the unbending nature of laws governing disaster aid.
 ''The Stafford Act does have requirements that cause projects to be held up in red tape,'' Ms. Morgan said. 
 Hurricane Katrina knocked out power to the aquarium in August 2005. Staff members returned four days after the city's mandatory evacuation to find sharks, tropical fish, jellyfish and thousands of other creatures dead in their tanks.
 Aquarium managers said they had to reopen quickly to get revenue flowing. So even before FEMA considered the case, some aquarium staff members went fishing, snorkeling and scuba diving from January to May 2006, catching tiny highhat fish, yellowtail snapper and others.
 The state sought reimbursement, arguing that salmon hatcheries in Oregon and laboratory rats in Texas were replaced with FEMA money after disasters in 1994 and 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (92%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FISHES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); AQUACULTURE (77%); FINFISH FARMING (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); POWER FAILURES (72%); PETITIONS (70%); GOVERNORS (63%); WATER SPORTS (63%); SCUBA DIVING (60%); RODENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



472 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: GMAC Exploring Sale of Some Parts of Mortgage Lender

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The finance company GMAC said yesterday that it was exploring the sale of parts of its troubled mortgage-lending arm, Residential Capital, and the purchase of a non-American mortgage lender. 
 GMAC said in a statement that it had submitted an indication of interest to buy a ''large non-U.S. mortgage lending institution.'' 
 It did not identify the target, but speculation was directed at Northern Rock, a distressed British financier that is seeking a buyer.
 GMAC is 51 percent-owned by a consortium led by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, which is reported to have submitted a bid for Northern Rock. Cerberus declined to comment, and GMAC, the other 49 percent of which is still owned by General Motors, would not elaborate on its statement.
 GMAC said its goal would be to combine the local mortgage business of Residential Capital with the acquired institution if it was successful in concluding a deal.
 Other interested parties are pursuing the same acquisition, GMAC said, and there can be no assurance that it will succeed.
 Also yesterday, Residential Capital said it had made a cash tender offer for up to $750 million of its debt. The purchase of the notes at a discount, and the retirement of the debt, would increase its income in the fourth quarter, it said.
 Like many lenders, Residential Capital has struggled as falling home values and rising interest rates have made it tougher for some homeowners to keep up with mortgage payments. This month, it posted a $2.6 billion loss for the third quarter, which led to a $1.6 billion loss at GMAC.
 Last quarter, GMAC injected $1 billion into Residential Capital. Analysts and investors have questioned how long it will be willing to support the mortgage lender.
 GMAC and Residential Capital said they continued to explore options to improve liquidity, including acquisitions, asset sales and joint ventures.
 GMAC also said yesterday that its management intended to recommend a capital contribution to Residential Capital, but that there could be no assurances that the board would authorize it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TENDER OFFERS (73%); HOME PRICES (65%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



473 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Israel Allows Some Goods to Enter and Leave Gaza

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Israel has approved the transfer of 25 armored personnel carriers from Russia to the Palestinian Authority and will allow the export of some agricultural produce from Gaza for the first time since Hamas took over the area, Israeli government officials said Wednesday. 
 The moves come as part of a general effort to create a positive atmosphere leading up to the American-sponsored peace gathering scheduled for Tuesday in Annapolis, Md. 
 Israeli government officials said Israel had agreed to the transfer of the armored vehicles to bolster the Palestinian Authority security forces and ''their actions to prevent terror.'' 
 The vehicles will be sent to Nablus, a city in the northern West Bank where armed gangs have long ruled, and where the Palestinian Authority recently embarked on a security campaign after a deployment of 300 specially trained police officers.
 The Russians offered the Palestinians the old armored vehicles after Mahmoud Abbas was elected president in 2005, and the idea was approved by Israel's leaders at the time, said Miri Eisin, a spokeswoman for the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert. The delivery was put on hold after the Islamic group Hamas won parliamentary elections in early 2006. 
 Moscow revived the idea a few weeks ago, and the prime minister approved it, Ms. Eisin said. There is no arrival date yet for the vehicles, but if the security campaign is successful in Nablus and is repeated in other cities, Israel will consider allowing the transfer of another 25 vehicles, she said.
 Hamas took over Gaza in June after routing Fatah forces loyal to Mr. Abbas in a brief factional war. Its military wing called the authorization of the delivery ''a Zionist gift.'' A Hamas spokesman, Sami Abu Zuhri, said it showed that Mr. Abbas worked ''hand in hand with the occupation'' against the Palestinian ''resistance.''
 Israeli legislators from the right-wing opposition also criticized the move, raising fears that the Palestinian Authority's weapons could be turned against Israel or fall into the hands of Hamas. Benjamin Netanyahu, the head of the Likud Party, told Army Radio, ''According to all the security services, Olmert is endangering the lives of Israeli civilians.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, said he had no comment on the matter. 
 But a former Israeli Army chief, Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, told Israel Radio that the supply of armored vehicles was a ''meaningless event.''
 ''The armored vehicles will not substantively change the Palestinians' ability to handle security or the balance of power between the Israeli Army and the Palestinian security organizations,'' he said. 
 He noted that the Palestinians already had a number of armored vehicles in Gaza. ''I think most of them didn't work for technical reasons,'' he said.
 The decision to allow the resumption of agricultural exports from Gaza was made with the approval of the minister of defense, Israel's Agriculture Ministry said in a statement. 
 Israel closed down the commercial crossings along the border with Gaza as soon as the militant Hamas took over the territory. Since June only basic goods have been allowed in, and no exports have been allowed out. Many Gaza factories have closed as a result. 
 The agriculture minister, Shalom Simchon, said strawberries and flowers grown in the Gaza Strip, and destined for the European market, would be allowed out. According to the ministry, the crop export, carried out in cooperation with Israel's agricultural sector, is worth about $25 million a year. 
 In a normal year, Gaza exports about 60 million flowers, mostly carnations, as well as 2,000 tons of strawberries and 1,500 tons of tomatoes, the ministry said. The season runs from November through March.
 A Gaza economist, Omar Shaaban, said that the Israeli policy change came about as a result of ''continuous pressure'' from Palestinian and Israeli agricultural institutions, including a petition to Israel's Supreme Court, with support from Europe. He said that 5,000 families in Gaza would benefit directly from the export of the crops. 
 Israel closed the main Karni commercial crossing in June, after the pro-Abbas forces that had secured the Palestinian side fled. Israeli security officials said they did not expect it to reopen soon. 
 A spokeswoman for the Israeli agriculture minister, Tali Carni, said the produce would pass from Gaza into Israel through the Sufa crossing. Sufa had been used to import relief supplies into Gaza, but that crossing has also been mostly closed since late October, with only a consignment of thousands of calves passing through to the strip.
 An Israeli security official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he had not yet received instructions regarding the exports, said it would take some time to make the necessary security arrangements for checking the produce on its way out of Gaza.
 Mr. Abbas's administration of moderates in the West Bank has recently been pushing Israel to open the crossings to alleviate the growing hardship in the strip. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian woman carried a box of freshly picked strawberries yesterday in the northern Gaza Strip. Strawberries grown there and destined for the European market would be allowed out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMUD HAMS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%); EHUD BARAK (59%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (90%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



474 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Tune-Out Time

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
When I became a U.S. citizen a few years back, I was not asked the meaning of Thanksgiving, but I was asked why the Civil War was fought and made to take an English test in the form of a dictation.
 The first sentence of the dictation was: ''I want to be a good American.'' When the immigration officer was satisfied that I had spelled this correctly, she read out the second sentence: ''I plan to work very hard every day.'' 
 Every day!
 From that point on there would be no day of rest, no respite, as I became not only an American, but also a good (or at least a typical) one. Mark Penn, the political guru advising Hillary Clinton, writes in his book ''Microtrends'' that Americans now work ''substantially more than most workers around the world.''
 He asks: ''What's a vacation to us these days without our BlackBerry?'' And he notes that in 2006, 23 percent of Americans ''checked our work e-mail and voice mail while away -- up from 16 percent in 2005.''
 I guess Penn is well paid to produce statistics that help Clinton read the American zeitgeist. What's clear is the BlackBerry prayer position -- head bowed, hands together, thumbs going -- is a solipsistic emblem of our age. As the New York-Washington shuttle touches down, 93.5 percent of those on board go into the prayer stoop.
 I just made that number up, but the fact is, most BlackBerry-armed travelers are hopelessly susceptible to that can't-not-look-at-it feeling. It's not that they believe something has happened. It's a need -- CrackBerry addiction.
 Now that work is not a building but a state of mind, thanks to technology and the knowledge-based economy, you can never stop if that's how you want to live, although simultaneous turkey stuffing and BlackBerry use is tricky.
 I asked Karissa Thacker, a management psychologist, why reaching for a hand-held electronic device to e-mail or instant-message -- an iPhone, BlackBerry, Treo or whatever -- has become such a reflexive movement, one that makes it difficult to embrace vacation as vacation.
 She told me: ''A BlackBerry poses three problems. Can you manage your need for control? Can you manage your need to be important? Can you manage your need to feel in the know? These are real psychological challenges because at any moment you can jump in and fire off an e-mail and get closure immediately. But it's superficial closure.''
 So you thought you had a communication device when in fact you have an ego-meter? That's about the sum of it. Because let's face it, e-mail is a bummer and addiction to it perverse.
 First, e-mail is reactive, a wait-and-respond thing, the surest guarantee of inside-the-box thinking. Second, it's a lousy tool for conflict resolution, a multiplier of misunderstandings. Third, it leads people to say things they would never say face to face. Fourth, once they're said, they're recorded in their colossal inanity for all eternity.
 What you accumulate, said Thacker, is ''interpersonal sludge.''
 For some companies, the sludge has become intolerable. Jay Ellison, the chief operating officer of U.S. Cellular, the country's sixth-largest wireless carrier, introduced ''no e-mail Fridays'' three years ago after surveys showed employees felt ''bombarded.''
 ''People in the same building didn't know they were just a floor apart before they started talking,'' Ellison said. On the basis that he was getting 300 e-mails a day and spending 10 minutes per hour dealing with them, he calculated U.S. Cellular gained more than 7,000 hours on Fridays for other activities.
 ''There's this humongous addiction,'' he said. ''E-mail chains cause folks to delays decisions.''
 It's time to introduce ''no e-mail Fridays'' in corporations nationwide and reintroduce Americans to each other. E-mailitis is soul-ravaging -- and perilous. According to Nancy Flynn of the ePolicy Institute, 26 percent of all employers have fired employees for inappropriate e-mail use.
 Cut use and you cut your liability. Thacker advocates ''juggle-switch-and-pivot'' skills: go online for five minutes and don't stay 45. Pivot back to the pumpkin pie.
 Then slow down. When Stanley Cohen, the friend and attorney to the artist Alexander Calder, moved to Paris in the 1960s, he ordered The Sunday New York Times. It would arrive the following Wednesday. He would take the paper and store it unread until Saturday night. Then he would place it outside his door so that, on Sunday morning, he had the illusion of finding his beloved paper waiting.
 I like that story. It's a reminder of how not to be a slave to time, of the need to be imaginative and humble in our thankfulness, and of the fact that news can wait a week. A day off to read it is dandy. Turn off, tune out, drop in. And a decent-sized turkey takes five hours to cook.
 Blog: www.iht.com/passages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); NEW ECONOMY (61%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); IMMIGRATION (56%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



475 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-16
 Foreign Fighters in Iraq Are Traced to U.S. Allies
 Saudi Arabia and Libya, two American allies in fighting terrorism, were the source of about 60 percent of the foreign fighters who went to Iraq in the past year, officials said.A1
 Iraqi policemen found a mass grave with at least 40 bodies.A8 
 Profiting From Migration
 As a money transfer company, Western Union has become a force in development economics, a player in American immigration debates and a target of contrasting attacks. A1 
 Big Privacy Breach in Britain
 The British government struggled to explain its loss of disks containing personal information on 25 million Britons.A3
 Rice Builds Up Mideast Talks
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pushed back against critics who say the Annapolis peace conference may be just a photo opportunity.A12 
 Israel will allow the export of some agricultural produce from Hamas-controlled Gaza. A12 
 China to Examine Dam Issues
 China announced plans to confront environmental and geological problems around the Three Gorges Dam.A14
 A Chinese warship is on its way to Japan for the first port visit by China's Navy since the end of World War II. A14
 A Cyclone's Continuing Toll
 Cyclone Sidr has devastated parts of Bangladesh not through death and destruction, but by upsetting its water. A16
 Pakistan's Emergency Rule
 A dissident lawyer was arrested while Pakistan's government claimed it was taking steps to ease emergency rule.A8
 NATIONALA20-26 
 Luck and Planning Improve Thanksgiving Day Travel
 The confluence of good luck and better planning made a surprisingly smooth day for holiday travelers at many airports across the country, travelers, airline executives and employees say. A1 
 Law Increases Price on Pills
 In health centers at hundreds of colleges and universities, young women are paying sharply higher prices for prescription contraceptives because of a change in federal law. The higher prices have also affected about 400 community health centers nationwide used by poor women. A1 
 Possible End to Stem Cell War
 If the stem cell wars are indeed nearly over, no one will savor the peace more than James Thomson. His laboratory was one of two that in 1998 plucked stem cells from human embryos for the first time, touching off a divisive national debate. A1 
 New Hampshire Sets Primary
 New Hampshire officially scheduled its first-in-the-nation presidential primary for Jan. 8, helping solidify what has been a chaotic primary calendar that moves the nominating process closer to the start of the year. A24 
 Court Rejects Offender Law
 The Georgia Supreme Court unanimously struck down a state law that limits where registered sex offenders can live, ruling the law unconstitutionally deprived the offenders of their property rights. A20 
 Student Killing Stirs Campus
 Students stood in a circle on the campus quadrangle at the University of Chicago and held slender white candles as they remembered a gentle graduate student from Senegal who was killed earlier this week. A20 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA28-29
 'The Grinch' Must Go On, Judge Rules
 A New York judge granted an injunction forcing the St. James Theater to open for performances of ''Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical,'' despite a stagehand strike. The show was the first to be struck because of its 11 a.m. start time, lending it a symbolic importance to the strike itself.A28 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-11 
 Investors Flee Wall St.
 Widespread worries about expensive oil, a sagging dollar and a gloomy outlook of the credit crisis prompted a late sell-off that sent stock markets down sharply, putting the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index into negative territory for the year. C1 
 Citizens as Safety Police
 The most recent recall of lead-tainted products was prompted by a New Yorker and his 10-year-old daughter, who are among a growing number of consumers involved in safety testing. C1 
 Islamic Banks on the Rise
 Rising oil wealth is expanding demand for financial services that adhere to Islamic law. Many wealthy Arabs are investing closer to home, in part to avoid increased scrutiny, but they are also eager to capitalize on Asia's breakneck growth. C1 
 New Plans for Retirees
 Baby boomers, born from 1946 to 1964, are far less likely to have traditional pension plans, and they risk outliving their assets. Mutual funds have started to introduce new products to manage the savings of those future retirees and parcel it out to them. C3 
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESA27
 Merle A. Sande
 A leading infectious-diseases expert whose early recognition of the looming public health crisis posed by AIDS led to the development of basic protocols for how to handle infected patients, he was 68.A27
 EDITORIALA30-31
 Editorials: Congestion relief; trying to save Lebanon, again; Ms. Paulose departs; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Thanksgiving at the grown-up table.
 Columns: Gail Collins and Roger Cohen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); HAMAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WOMEN (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ARRESTS (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); WIRE TRANSFERS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); AIRLINES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); CONTRACEPTION (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); THANKSGIVING (64%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MARYLAND USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



476 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Publicity-Shy Giuliani Backer Is Thrust Into Spotlight

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and LESLIE WAYNE; Aron Pilhofer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Paul E. Singer is the founding partner of one of the oldest hedge funds around. And while he has become a major donor to Republican and conservative causes in recent years, he has largely managed to stay out of the limelight, even avoiding having his picture appear in newspapers.
 But this year Mr. Singer became one of the biggest supporters of Rudolph W. Giuliani's presidential campaign, making his jet available to Mr. Giuliani, while Mr. Singer and workers at his companies have donated $200,000 to the campaign. And he became the largest individual backer of a California ballot initiative that many Democrats believe could sink their chances of winning the presidency.
 Suddenly, the normally low-profile Mr. Singer, a New Yorker, found himself singled out by Democrats intent on beating back the California effort before it gained any steam. 
 Howard Dean, the chairman of the Democratic Party, questioned ''Paul Singer's involvement in this dirty trick aimed at stealing the White House.'' A group of Democrats filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission charging that Mr. Singer had been acting on behalf of Mr. Giuliani in his efforts to change the California law -- which Mr. Singer and the campaign deny. And the Democratic National Committee drew attention to the part of Mr. Singer's business that involves buying the debt of poor countries at a discount and then seeking repayment in full -- prompting an article in The Times of London labeling his firm, Elliott Associates, a ''vulture fund.'' 
 The vitriol directed at Mr. Singer reflects the intense passions being stirred by efforts to change the California law, which could alter the nation's electoral map to favor Republicans and Mr. Giuliani, should he emerge as the party's candidate. While Mr. Singer is now distancing himself from the effort, another Giuliani fund-raiser has since taken up the cause. 
 Mr. Singer, 63, who was surprised to be photographed for this article on a Manhattan street, said in an e-mail interview that he had contributed to the California initiative on his own, and that he was not acting on behalf of the Giuliani campaign. He noted that buying what he called ''sovereign distressed debt'' represented only a tiny fraction of the $9 billion that is under management by his funds, but defended his decision to press for repayment, saying that countries must meet their obligations.
 And he lamented what he called ''the name-calling against investors who do not just 'go along' with cents-on-the-dollar offers for valid sovereign debt,'' saying it was primarily generated by ideological groups and debtors who do not want to pay. 
 Mr. Singer, who has given millions of dollars to Republican candidates and causes over the years, said that he met Mr. Giuliani in 2006 and decided to support him. He signed on as one of the campaign's earliest major fund-raisers. For months, Mr. Singer made a jet leased by one of his companies available to Mr. Giuliani. This June, he said, he stepped down as the campaign's Eastern finance chairman to become a policy adviser.
 The role of adviser is one that Mr. Singer unofficially took upon himself a decade ago, when he wrote a letter to Mr. Giuliani as a constituent, praising his work as New York's mayor but urging him to crack down on excessive horn honking and dangerous bicycle riders.
 The following year, Mr. Giuliani did announce a crackdown on quality-of-life infractions, including on speeding cyclists and street noise.
 On Wall Street, Mr. Singer, a Harvard Law School graduate, has spent 30 years building up the Elliott funds, which have a reputation for strong-arm tactics in financial battles across the globe, but take a mostly conservative, risk-averse approach to investing that has produced steady returns.
 But it is a very small portion of his portfolio that has attracted the most attention recently: the part that invests in the discounted debt of poor countries.
 Mr. Singer is perhaps best known for the fight he put up -- and the money he made -- in his battle over Peruvian debt. In 1996, he paid $11.4 million for $20 million worth of discounted, government-backed Peruvian bank debt. Then, rather than joining with 180 other Peruvian creditors who agreed to a plan using bonds to forgive some of the impoverished country's debt, Mr. Singer held out for bigger payments.
 He battled in the courts. At one point he hired an Albany lobbying firm and got New York State to change an obscure law to strengthen his position. When the dust had settled, Mr. Singer ended up getting $58 million for his Peruvian investment. 
 Groups advocating debt relief -- and higher-profile people like Bono -- criticize such transactions, maintaining that they force poor countries to divert money from social and economic programs in order to pay back investors. The International Monetary Fund, where a top official once labeled Mr. Singer's firm a ''vulture company,'' issued a report recently saying that such funds present a ''major challenge'' to the success of debt-relief programs in poor countries. 
 Mr. Singer said that it was important for countries to comply with contracts. ''We have never had a dispute with a sovereign which could not pay its debts,'' he said. ''Our few disputes have been with sovereigns who can pay but refuse.''
 At the moment, Mr. Singer is engaged in a similar battle involving Congo over $100 million in deeply discounted Congolese debt bought by an Elliott subsidiary a decade ago. He has hired lawyers to find Congolese assets, and even detectives, who discovered, among other things, a copy of an $82,000 bill run up by the Congolese president at the New York Palace Hotel during a visit to the United Nations. 
 Mr. Singer describes himself as a libertarian conservative dating to the Barry Goldwater days. He is a trustee of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization that provided Mr. Giuliani with a number of policy ideas when he was mayor, and has served on several boards, including the board of the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs, which advocates a close military alliance between the United States and Israel, and Commentary Magazine. 
 He donated $250,000 to the Club for Growth, a group that promotes free-market policies and tax cuts, and which has praised Mr. Giuliani this year. 
 Over the years, Mr. Singer has been a major donor to Republican causes. He gave $1.5 million to the Progress for America Voter Fund, an advocacy group set up in 2004 to advance the policies of the Bush administration. The group ran commercials during the 2004 presidential campaign in Midwestern battleground states featuring the smoky ruins of the World Trade Center, while portraying Senator John Kerry as weak on military budgets. Mr. Singer was also a donor to the Swift Vets and P.O.W.'s for Truth, which ran advertisements attacking Mr. Kerry's Vietnam War record.
 But what has attracted notice recently is Mr. Singer's September donation of $175,000 to a group called Take Initiative America -- California, a corporation that had been set up in Missouri the day before, and which then donated the money to a group called Californians for Equal Representation.
 The California group wanted to change the way the state's 55 electoral votes are apportioned, from winner-take-all, to one apportioning the votes according to Congressional district. Such a change could give Republicans as many as 20 more electoral votes, making it much easier for the party to win the White House.
 Democrats filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission that said it was ''reasonable to believe that Mr. Singer was acting as Mr. Giuliani's agent in funding the California electoral college initiative,'' which they said would have made his contribution over the limit for a federal candidate.
 The Giuliani campaign said it had no knowledge of the effort. ''As far as I am concerned, you can leave it the way it is,'' Mr. Giuliani said in September. After the group Mr. Singer supported had spent its money and become inactive, a new group was created to push for the ballot proposal, aided by Anne Dunsmore, who recently resigned as the Giuliani campaign's chief fund-raiser.
 Mr. Singer, who said he supported the proposal because he believes in proportional voting in the Electoral College, said that he had no plans to contribute to the new committee pushing the initiative. ''I have had no dealings with that committee and played no role in its formation,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: If Rudolph W. Giuliani becomes the Republican nominee, he would gain from a California law change backed by Mr. Singer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES)
 Paul E. Singer's support for changes to California's Electoral College votes has drawn the attention, and anger, of Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); BALLOTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



477 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Gap's Profit Up 26% on Cost Cuts, but Sales Were Weak

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Gap Inc. said Wednesday that its third-quarter profit rose 26 percent as marketing costs fell.
 But the company's cost-cutting campaign could not compensate for a slowdown in sales at its Gap and Old Navy chains. Companywide revenue was flat, and same-store sales -- at stores open at least a year -- fell 5 percent. 
 ''We feel this is going to be a tough economic environment this upcoming holiday season,'' the chairman and chief executive, Glenn K. Murphy, said in a conference call.
 Gap, which is based in San Francisco, named Mr. Murphy as chief executive during the summer. 
 The company said that net income for the quarter that ended Nov. 3 rose to $238 million, or 30 cents a share, from $189 million, or 23 cents a share, in the period a year ago.
 Sales were flat at $3.85 billion.
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, on average, expected earnings per share of 29 cents on sales of $3.86 billion.
 Shares of Gap fell $1.24, to $18.96. Despite a raised outlook for the full fiscal year, executives were cautious about the holiday season.
 Gap increased fiscal 2007 guidance to 92 cents to 98 cents a share. Executives previously expected 83 cents to 88 cents a share.
 Sabrina Simmons, executive vice president for finance, acknowledged that fourth-quarter sales estimates were difficult, saying, ''The macroeconomic environment warrants caution.''
 The company is betting heavily on fashions with bold color and patterns -- particularly its ''crazy stripes'' campaign, which will continue at its Gap stores through the end of the year.
 Gap, which also operates Banana Republic stores, said it cut marketing expenses by about $75 million in the quarter, as planned.
 One of the few bright spots on the sales side came from online sales, which surged 36 percent, to $247 million, from $182 million in the third quarter of last year. Gap operates the online shoe store Piperlime, gap.com and other e-commerce sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOTWEAR (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (96%); BANANA REPUBLIC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (96%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (96%)

PERSON: GLENN MURPHY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



478 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2377 words

HEADLINE: A Western Union Empire Moves Migrant Cash Home

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE; Margot Williams contributed research.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
To glimpse how migration is changing the world, consider Western Union, a fixture of American lore that went bankrupt selling telegrams at the dawn of the Internet age but now earns nearly $1 billion a year helping poor migrants across the globe send money home.
 Migration is so central to Western Union that forecasts of border movements drive the company's stock. Its researchers outpace the Census Bureau in tracking migrant locations. Long synonymous with Morse code, the company now advertises in Tagalog and Twi and runs promotions for holidays as obscure as Phagwa and Fiji Day. Its executives hail migrants as ''heroes'' and once tried to oust a congressman because of his push for tougher immigration laws.
 ''Global migration is the cornerstone of how we've grown,'' said Christina A. Gold, Western Union's chief executive.
 With five times as many locations worldwide as McDonald's, Starbucks, Burger King and Wal-Mart combined, Western Union is the lone behemoth among hundreds of money transfer companies. Little noticed by the public and seldom studied by scholars, these businesses form the infrastructure of global migration, a force remaking economics, politics and cultures across the world. 
 Last year migrants from poor countries sent home $300 billion, nearly three times the world's foreign aid budgets combined.
 Western Union's dominance of the industry casts it in a host of unlikely new roles: as a force in development economics, a player in American immigration debates and a target of contrasting attacks.
 Its unparalleled reach gives millions of migrants a safe way to transmit money, and may even increase the amounts sent. But critics have long complained about its fees, which can run from about 4 percent to 20 percent or more. And the company's lobbying for immigrant-friendly laws has raised the ire of people who say it profits from, or even promotes, illegal immigration. 
 Western Union tracks migrants so closely that it has made pitches to illegal immigrants just released from detention camps. Its agent in Panama offered customers legal aid to keep them from being deported.
 After settling a damaging lawsuit that accused it of hiding large fees, Western Union set out a few years ago to recast its image, portraying itself as the migrants' trusted friend. It has spent more than $1 billion on marketing over the past four years, selectively cut prices and charged into American politics, donating to immigrants' rights groups and advocating a path to legalization for illegal immigrants.
 While some migrant groups still complain of predatory pricing, the company has won unlikely praise.
 ''Western Union has become a company that values and protects its customers,'' said Matthew J. Piers, the Chicago lawyer who sued the company over its fees. ''Nobody was more surprised at the change than me, because I was Western Union critic Numero Uno.''
 Western Union's zealous pursuit of migrants can be seen in a government office in Manila, where a half million Filipinos a year wait to have their papers processed before leaving for overseas jobs. Everything in the waiting room is labeled ''Western Union'': the backs of the chairs, the tops of the desks, the bottom of the queue sign and the front of the menu in the adjacent cafeteria. The walls are even painted Western Union yellow. 
 The Philippines requires each outbound migrant to attend a predeparture seminar. Western Union paid to offer migrants instructions on sending money home. ''We tell them about the services of Western Union,'' said Steve Peregrino, the marketing director in the Philippines, ''with the basic idea of seeking out Western Union when they go abroad.'' In and around the waiting room, reviews are positive.
 Ernald Vincent Mendoza, a restaurant supervisor in Saudi Arabia, dismissed his wife's argument that the company's pricing hurt the poor. Though banks are cheaper, the money can take a week to arrive, he said, while Western Union sends it instantly. ''If they have good quality and service, you have to pay for that,'' he said.
 Emmanuel Ellorian, a waiter in Dubai, said Western Union agents came to the hotel where he worked and processed the transfers there. ''If any of the Filipino clubs have an event,'' he said, ''one of the sponsors is Western Union.''
 A Telegraph Giant Evolves
 Western Union's founders set out in 1851 to build the first telegraph giant. A decade later, they had linked the coasts, a feat celebrated in a Zane Grey novel and a Hollywood film, both called ''Western Union.'' Airmail and faxes left telegrams obsolete, and the company went bankrupt in 1992. 
 It emerged two years later with a focus on its money transfer service and was acquired in 1995 by the Colorado corporation First Data. Flush times followed. Fueled by the surge in migration, international money transfers were growing by 20 percent a year. 
 In 1998, Mr. Piers sued the company, alleging that Western Union and a rival, MoneyGram, deceived customers with advertisements like ''Send $300 to Mexico for $15,'' since the companies typically made much more (in this case an additional $25) by setting foreign exchange rates to their advantage. While denying any wrongdoing, the companies paid millions to settle the case.
 Western Union appeared ''money oriented'' and ''cold,'' warned an internal marketing document that called for a more empathetic image. The goal, as one plan put it, was to capture a ''share of mind'' and a ''share of heart'' to preserve a ''share of wallet.''
 Having once stressed efficiency (''the fastest way to send money''), Western Union now emphasizes the devotion the money represents. One poster pairs a Filipino nurse in London with her daughter back home in cap and gown, making Western Union an implicit partner in the family's achievements. ''Sending so much more than money'' is a common tag line.
 The company sponsors hundreds of ethnic festivals, concerts and sporting events, from cricket matches for Indians in Dubai to sack races for Jamaicans in Queens. Last year it paid a Filipino pop star, Jim Paredes, to record a Tagalog song urging migrants to send money home. It paid the producers of a Bollywood film, ''Namastey London,'' for a scene in which a Western Union wire transfer helps rescue the heroine.
 The Western Union agent in Panama played the rescuer's role himself. With many of his customers illegal immigrants -- mostly from Colombia -- he put three lawyers on retainer and started a radio show. The lawyers answered callers' questions and scheduled free appointments to get them legalized. 
 ''Every time an immigrant is forced outside the country, we lose a potential customer,'' said the agent, Jaime Lacayo, who provided the legal services for two years and still runs the radio show. ''We have participated in many marriages of foreigners marrying Panamanian ladies, because that is the best way to legalize your status.''
 A Global Operation
 Western Union boasts of 320,000 locations worldwide. Many agents are large organizations, like the Chinese postal system or grocery store chains. (About 60 percent of Western Union's person-to-person transfers occur wholly outside the United States.) But companies also battle block by block for trusted local figures.
 Among them is Michael Lee, 35, who owns an electronics store called World Top Communications in New York's Chinatown. Sharing a building with a ''lupus and tumor consultant,'' on a block of East Broadway that smells of dried shrimp, he was told by Western Union to expect a few hundred transactions a month.
 He now does 100,000 a year, he said. Mr. Lee, who earns about $2.50 per transaction, is so enthusiastic he persuaded his landlord to paint the building yellow, and the company donated $16,000 worth of paint. 
 Many of his customers are in the country illegally. Mr. Lee, who was once an illegal immigrant, said his business fell by about 40 percent last spring after a series of nationwide immigration raids. ''A lot of people don't have green cards -- they are afraid,'' he said.
 Salo Eduardo Levy, Western Union's Mexico director, echoed that theme at a September meeting of industry executives. ''We have customers calling agents before they go: 'Is it safe? Is La Migra around?'''
 A 2006 survey by the Inter-American Development Bank found that illegal immigrants made up 41 percent of the Latin Americans in the United States who used money transfer companies.
 Western Union says it does not know what share of its customers are illegal immigrants, but at times it has made pitches directly to them. As Central Americans surged across the Texas border in 1999, an overflowing federal detention center bused them to a homeless shelter in Brownsville, the Ozanam Center. Western Union sponsored a lunch there, dispensing T-shirts, bandannas and fliers in Spanish with the company's toll-free telephone number. 
 Western Union also held marketing events around the same time for people deported from the United States to Honduras and El Salvador.
 ''They would arrive in a special holding area, and we would have an agent in there -- a young lady in tight jeans, tight T-shirt'' to promote Western Union products, said a former company official who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. ''We knew that within a week they would be back on their way to the U.S.'' 
 Fred Niehaus, a company vice president, said, ''I can tell you that's something the company would not do now.''
 Immigration and Politics
 Western Union's views on immigration have brought conflicts with Tom Tancredo, the Republican congressman who represents the Denver suburb where the company has its headquarters, Three years ago, when Mr. Tancredo, a fierce critic of illegal immigration, proposed taxing the money that migrants send, First Data formed a political action committee to drive him from office. 
 ''We're tired of his antics,'' Mr. Niehaus told The Rocky Mountain News. ''We're opting for change.''
 After winning re-election, Mr. Tancredo attacked Western Union for co-sponsoring a Spanish guide that he said promoted illegal immigration. The guide said that schools and clinics would not check migrants' papers and advised them to ''always carry the name and number of an attorney.''
 Mr. Tancredo, who is running for president, said the company's activities occupied ''a gray area'' between aggressive marketing and ''aiding and abetting illegal immigration.''
 ''Western Union wants to encourage illegal immigration in order to expand the number of people in their market,'' he said. ''Believe me, if I were president, I would ask the Justice Department to look into it.'' 
 In 2004, Charles T. Fote, then First Data's chairman, gave a speech calling for ''comprehensive'' reform, a term used by supporters of legalization plans for illegal immigrants.
 The company sponsored public forums to promote the idea and donated $100,000 to a group unsuccessfully fighting Proposition 200 in Arizona, which requires proof of citizenship from people seeking to vote or collect certain public benefits.
 As the debate moved to Washington, Western Union gave money to many groups supporting legalization plans. The United States Chamber of Commerce received ''in the high six figures,'' a Chamber official said, while an Illinois group used some Western Union money to bring busloads of immigrants to Capitol Hill. When a bipartisan Senate bill emerged last spring, company officials flew to Washington to lobby directly, urging Senator Ken Salazar, a Colorado Democrat, to support the measure. He did, though it ultimately failed. 
 ''Most companies are afraid to speak up,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which has received $40,000 from Western Union in the past three years. ''When it got hot, they stayed with it.''
 But proponents of stricter border controls see commerce, not courage, at play. ''Western Union has decided that its business model depends on a continuing flow of illegal immigrants,'' said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates low levels of immigration. 
 Western Union's latest battle is with the Arizona attorney general, Terry Goddard, who in 2004 began seizing money transfers into Arizona that he suspected were meant to pay human smugglers. The effort led to hundreds of arrests but also froze legitimate transfers and scared away customers, costing Western Union millions.
 After two years of cooperation, the company resisted in court last year when Mr. Goddard, a Democrat, expanded his request to cover transfers from across the United States to Sonora, Mexico. In September, an Arizona court ruled for Western Union. 
 The company's resistance won plaudits from migrant groups but left Mr. Goddard angry. The company is ''protecting an illegal enterprise in human smuggling,'' he said. ''It's outrageous.''
 The company spun off from First Data a year ago, and it has an estimated global market share of 14 percent, versus 3 percent for its closest competitor, MoneyGram. Though Western Union has responded to increased competition by cutting its charges, it typically remains the most expensive service.
 An Oakland group, the Transnational Institute for Grassroots Research and Action, began a boycott campaign in September, demanding that Western Union lower its prices and increase its corporate giving. But it has gained little traction, in part because of the company's recent courtship of migrant groups. 
 One critic who now gives Western Union grudging credit is Donald F. Terry, an official at the Inter-American Development Bank. He has spent years trying to get more migrants to use banks, so they could establish financial histories and qualify for loans. 
 But banks have not fully welcomed migrants, he said, while Western Union and other money transfer companies have more locations, better hours and agents who know their customers' language and culture.
 ''You could say they were ripping people off, or you could also say they're providing a service that poor people desperately needed and were willing to pay for,'' Mr. Terry said. ''Any consumer company in the world would like to have the customer loyalty they have. They're doing something right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PHILIPPINES: At the airport in Manila, Western Union handbooks are handed out to Filipinos leaving to work abroad (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20)
MALAYSIA: A Western Union truck plays music and movies in remote villages (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20)
THE PHILIPPINES: Rows of yellow Western Union chairs at the Overseas Employment Agency in Manila (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINFA Z. BITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20)
NEW YORK: Many of the customers at Armajeet Singh's market in Queens are immigrants from South Asia (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20)
CAPE VERDE: An advertisement for Western Union in the town of Mindelo on the island of Sao Vicente. According to one estimate, about 500,000 Cape Verdeans live overseas (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20)
A sign in New York's Chinatown, familiar in many cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1) CHART: MONEY TRANSFER FEES: Percentage collected by companies, through fees paid by senders and profits from exchange rates, for sending about $200. (Sources: Manuel Orozco for the Inter-American Development Bank
 International Peace Research Institute (Norway figure)) (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); LEGAL AID (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); DEPORTATION (74%); BUSINESS TORTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); LITIGATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); CENSUS (57%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (84%); CHRISTINA A GOLD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CAPE VERDE (92%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007



479 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart and Sustainable Business

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Wal-Mart's Environmental Report Card'' (Business Day, Nov. 16):
Wal-Mart's plans to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste all make good business and environmental sense, but no such improvements can change the inherently unsustainable nature of the big box retailing model. 
 While the media have given the corporation's (mostly unfulfilled) pledges to do less harm to the planet abundant coverage, the corporation's own report admits that it increased carbon emissions by 9 percent last year alone. And that number doesn't touch the pollution created by increasing traffic resulting from Wal-Mart's location and design of its stores and parking lots. 
 (In defense of big box chains, better zoning and tax laws are also essential to address this problem.)
 Where environmental improvements are more reality than P.R., we should applaud them. But let's realize that the mission of publicly traded corporations, by definition, is to grow in perpetuity. Where does that leave us on our finite planet?
 As investors and as consumers, we should shift support from global chains to independent local businesses and seek more products produced or grown closer to our homes. As citizens, we should seek to shift laws that favor transnational chains to instead encourage entrepreneurs. The only truly sustainable path for business in the 21st century is localization.
 Jeff Milchen Bozeman, Mont., Nov. 17, 2007
 The writer is a co-founder of the American Independent Business Alliance.
 To the Editor:
 Wal-Mart and its executives concede that achieving a ''sustainable'' business requires attention to not only environmental issues, but the complete intertwining of social and economic components as well. 
 Yet, as 23 civil society organizations asked in a recent report, can Wal-Mart claim to be sustainable when it drives down wages, contributes to sweatshop conditions by paying untenably low prices to its suppliers, runs local stores out of business, and disregards the wishes of the communities where it establishes its stores? 
 Further, when Wal-Mart employees attempt to form unions to improve their working conditions, they are met with Wal-Mart's unapologetic and aggressive interference with their legal right to choose union representation. 
 Until Wal-Mart incorporates initiatives to provide its employees with fair wages, adequate benefits and flexible work rules, and honors their right to form a union and bargain collectively, Wal-Mart's business plan will ultimately remain ''unsustainable.'' 
 Nikki Daruwala Washington, Nov. 16, 2007
 The writer is director of the Socially Responsible Business Program at American Rights at Work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); SWEATSHOPS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); TAX LAW (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); GARMENT WORKERS (62%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009



480 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Rising Early, Not to Start The Turkey, But to Shop

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN and NATE SCHWEBER

 BODY:
Thanksgiving has long been a day reserved for feasting on turkey and televised football. But America's most recent national pastime, shopping, is increasingly encroaching on that tradition.
 Yesterday, stores lured residents of the metropolitan area off their couches and out of their kitchens by dangling the one thing sure to trigger a response: an unusually good bargain. At Kmart stores, it was a savings of more than $250 on a wide-screen television. At CompUSA, which opened its doors at 9 last night, it was $300 off the regular price of a notebook computer.
 By staying open on the holiday, those retailers got a head start on their competitors -- though not by much. Other national chains, including Kohl's and J. C. Penney, rolled back the start of their after-Thanksgiving sales to 4 a.m. Some stores that remained closed yesterday, including Circuit City and Best Buy, encouraged consumers to spend part of the holiday shopping online by offering special deals just for the day. 
 Thanksgiving used to be one of the few ''untouchable days,'' along with Christmas, said Doug Fleener, president of Dynamic Experiences Group, a consulting firm in Lexington, Mass. ''It's one of the few days that the retail employees should get to spend with their families.''
 Indeed, in Massachusetts it is illegal for stores to open on Thanksgiving. But around the rest of the country in the last several years, more stores have chosen to try competing with holiday rituals, Mr. Fleener said.
 Some retailers are starting sales sooner this year because they are worried that a weakening economy and high gas prices will depress holiday spending, said Britt Beemer, president of America's Research Group, a consulting firm in Charleston, S.C.
 ''Nobody's figured out the customer this year,'' Mr. Beemer said. ''Because of that, everybody's trying something different this year to figure out how they can get ahead of somebody else.''
 At the F. A. O. Schwarz store in Manhattan and at Kmarts in and around the city, the strategy appeared to be paying off yesterday.
 Sharie Williams, a nurse who lives in Manhattan, bought a 42-inch plasma television as a gift at the Kmart at Astor Place because, she said, she was daunted by the prospect of the scrum for the limited supplies of deeply discounted merchandise after Thanksgiving.
 ''I wanted this TV, and I didn't know if I'd be able to wake up at 4 and get it tomorrow,'' said Ms. Williams, 26. She added that she did not want to ''wait in those lines because sometimes you don't get what you want. Normally it's sold out.''
 At a Kmart in West Orange, N.J., the line of shoppers waiting at 6:30 a.m. for the doors to open stretched past the entrance of the Whole Foods grocery next door and approached a neighboring fast-food restaurant, said Suliane Therlonge, a shopper. 
 ''The line was all the way by Wendy's,'' she said. ''I was shocked.''
 Ms. Therlonge, 38, got out of bed early for digital cameras for children, priced at two for $19. Her companion, Elouse Desir, 27, was pleased because she got into the store in time to snag one of the 32-inch Olevia high-definition LCD TVs, the main attraction at $419.99 each. She saw one woman leave with four of them, she said.
 A few miles away in Clifton, Darlene Capobianco of Rutherford was nearly alone inside a hangar-size Sports Authority store, where the sales clerks easily outnumbered the shoppers. Ms. Capobianco, 43, said she had decided to stock up on discounted ski and soccer equipment for her family while her husband and children were at an annual Thanksgiving Day soccer game. She had free time, she said, because her mother-in-law was handling the cooking this year.
 The F. A. O. Schwarz store on Fifth Avenue did not need special prices to draw a crowd. By late morning, after the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, tourists and other shoppers were lined up for almost half a block to get inside. 
 Bonnie Dittbenner of Portsmouth, R.I., who was among the swarm of shoppers at the toy store, said it was a new experience.
 ''Normally, I'm cooking, and normally the stores are closed,'' she said as she wandered the aisles with her husband, Chuck, and children, Emma, 7, and Chase, 9. ''While we're down here, it's kind of nice having the shops open.''
 It was the fourth year that F. A. O. Schwarz was open on Thanksgiving, said Ed Schmults, the company's chief executive, who was greeting shoppers yesterday.
 ''It's become a tradition,'' Mr. Schmults said. ''It's a family holiday, and if you look around, what do you see? Families.''
 The people working in the stores yesterday were separated from their families, either out of a sense of duty or a desire to earn a little extra pay.
 ''I need the money,'' said Richard De Sina, 63, a greeter at F. A. O. Schwarz who was dressed as a palace guard. He said that he had already volunteered to work on Christmas Day, when he would earn double his usual wages.
 Mr. De Sina added that he would not miss out on Thanksgiving altogether. ''After I'm done, I've got a friend with a warm plate waiting for me.''
 A co-worker, Robert Tunstall, entertaining customers by dancing on a giant keyboard like the one featured in the movie ''Big,'' said he enjoyed working on the holiday.
 ''It's pretty awesome,'' Mr. Tunstall said. ''People are happy. We've got mobs of people here.''
 To top it off, he said, Mr. Schmults had provided turkey and all the fixings for employees in the basement of the store.
 ''We got to have turkey,'' Mr. Schmults said. ''I'd be a terrible boss if I didn't have turkey.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers formed a line almost half a block long to get into F. A. O. Schwarz on Fifth Avenue. It was the fourth year that the store stayed open on Thanksgiving
it will be open Christmas, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Many stores broke with tradition and stayed open yesterday. Kadhambari Sridhar, left, and Parvathy Sridhar looked for Christmas decorations at the Kmart on 34th Street in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: COMPUSA INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



481 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Latest Model: A Retooled Museum

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Detroit Institute of Arts, one of the country's small but classic encyclopedic museums, could be on an open prairie rather than in the center of a city, so faint is the urban buzz around it. Little commercial energy warms the nearby streets. Residential neighborhoods are at a distance. Traffic on the broad thoroughfare running past the museum is sparse, even as this institution, closed for the last six months, celebrates a reopening on Nov. 23 that is being advertised as a resurrection.
 There is potentially much to feel good about. A master plan designed by the architect Michael Graves, reorganizing the museum's interior and expanding its gallery space by 31,000 square feet, has been completed. The permanent collection, with its gems of Flemish, Dutch and American art, has been freshly and inventively reinstalled. A new gallery of African-American art, one of the few of its kind, is in place.
 But there is also much to ponder. For years before the shutdown, the financially strained museum was operating at reduced strength, with curtailed hours and closed galleries. The rethought collection is an experiment in progress. Some aspects of it would have given the museum's Victorian founders a healthy shock; other aspects would have pleased them too well. 
 In short, this story of a vulnerable institution in a spirited but depressed town is one of modest triumphs mingled with failures. And it is a very American story, about the shameful way we treat our ailing cities; about what we value in culture; about how the inescapable politics of race and class shape the institutions that write our history; about how art, that glittering bauble, might have some use after all. 
 The Detroit Institute of Arts, like most older American art museums, was the product of a hard-nosed, hardscrabble nation that found itself, at the end of the 19th century, on top of the world. A country that had once defined itself as the un-Europe more and more aspired to be a New Europe, at least in terms of high culture. Increasingly, its republican gentry imported art from abroad and built museums that looked like temples and banks to hold those treasures. The Detroit Institute's Beaux-Arts home, designed by Paul Philippe Cret and finished in 1927, is a textbook example of the type. 
 The 1920s was a peak moment for Detroit. The auto industry was booming; the museum flourished under the leadership of its globally minded German-born director, William Valentiner. Fabulous European paintings arrived: ''St. Jerome in His Study,'' attributed to Jan van Eyck; ''The Wedding Dance'' by Pieter Bruegel the Elder; a Giovanni Bellini ''Madonna and Child''; Jacob van Ruisdael's ''Jewish Cemetery.'' So did examples of Asian, African, pre-Columbian and Islamic art. 
 Even during the Depression Mr. Valentiner made spectacular acquisitions. In 1931 he commissioned Diego Rivera to paint his now famous, and at the time infamous, ''Detroit Industry'' mural cycle in one of the museum's indoor courtyards. One of the great surviving landmarks of populist, leftist art, it was paid for by Mr. Valentiner's friend and angel Edsel B. Ford. 
 More art required more room. A new wing was built in 1966, another in 1971. They added space but complicated an already confusing floor plan, making the museum nearly impossible to navigate. The $158 million Graves master plan was intended to bring some logic to the existing traffic patterns, though as far as I could tell, it doesn't do the job. The layout just feels confusing in a different way.
 As for the revised exterior, I feel that what was needed for a city with a reputation for dust and vacancy was a big, glamorous statement; an architectural event; a thrill. The Graves design is staid, cautious, almost self-effacing. Beginning in the 1960s Detroit began a profound economic slide. Industry faltered; jobs dried up. Racism was a social explosion waiting to happen, and it did. Whites high-tailed it to the suburbs, taking business and services with them. Blacks were left with a desolate urban shell in which the museum sat marooned. 
 As a monument to aspirations of a white upper class of an earlier age, the museum understandably held little interest for its disenfranchised neighbors. At the same time, the audience it had catered to began to stay away. Caught in a no-win squeeze, the institution appeared to wither as curators left, galleries closed, and public hours shrank. 
 The present reopening, pushed through by Graham W. J. Beal, director since 1999, clearly represents the start of a strenuous effort to appeal to new audiences while retaining the loyalty of old ones, to create a street-level people's museum from a lofty mountain of elite art. The signature masterpieces are in place. Some are prominent: the scarlet sun in Frederic Church's ''Cotopaxi'' is visible several galleries away. Most are integrated into thematic displays. 
 Interpretive statements abound: explanatory labels, illustrative videos and various digital aids. Their presence can be annoying when the line between accessibility and dumbing down becomes thin. At the same time, this concept-intensive approach can do a lot to vivify difficult or second-tier material.
 By turning the museum's overabundant supply of French Rococo painting and furnishings into an aristocratic lifestyle display, the curators make shrewd contextual sense of the material. They do so again by calling a gallery of Baroque religious painting ''Art as Theater.'' That theme is both true to the art and makes it intriguing rather than dismissible for a secular age. It also demonstrates how canny a dramatist Artemisia Gentileschi was in her picture of Judith and her maidservant coolly cleaning up after dispatching Holofernes. 
 Of real interest is what the reinstallation tells us about the museum's recent collecting patterns. Its continuing acquisition of African art can surely be taken as a sign of its efforts to engage with the city. In addition, the reinstalled African galleries -- overseen by Nii O. Quarcoopome, a curator born in Nigeria -- are twice their former size and prominently placed near the most trafficked street entrance. The new galleries of African-American art suggest the same commitment. 
 You can argue -- many people do -- that such work should properly be integrated into the larger art historical picture, and in small but telling ways the museum does this. In an excellent special exhibition of works on paper from the collection, all 22 gouache paintings in Jacob Lawrence's ''John Brown'' series hang near a two-sided Michelangelo sketch for the Sistine Chapel, uniting two different but equally powerful versions of the heroic.
 In the context of a city -- and a country -- still crippled by old thinking about race, the presence of the African-American galleries constitutes an important gesture in two ways. It acknowledges the reality of alternative histories of American art. And by including the work of at least one Detroit artist, Tyree Guyton, it emphasizes afresh the museum's identity as a local institution. 
 Mr. Guyton is a civic treasure as an artist and as the creative force behind the extraordinary ''Heidelberg Project,'' a grand communal act of urban reclamation that has, for 20 years, been turning blocks of condemned houses in a black neighborhood into giant sculptural assemblages incorporating cast-off materials and found objects. 
 His work was one of the few examples of contemporary Detroit art that I was able to see on a too-brief visit, though there are many artists in the city, and theirnumbers are growing. Some are moving into cheap studio spaces not far from the Detroit Institute of Arts, though the focus of their cultural reference may well be the modest but adventurous Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit, four blocks south on Woodward Avenue.
 Mocad, as everyone calls it, opened just over a year ago in a one-story former car dealership. Its current show, ''Words Fail Me,'' organized by the New York artist and curator Matthew Higgs, explores language as a visual-art medium that is also directly linked to poetry. Most of the 16 artists included are familiar names in New York. I wondered if they would look out of place in Detroit, but they don't. 
 Carl Pope's fierce, funny posters -- part hip-hop, part sermon -- are exactly right for this city. So are Sam Durant's placards for an existential protest march and Anne-lise Coste's graffitilike drawings. Siobhan Liddell's near-invisible words, ''Weakness as Strength,'' might make an ideal logo for the beleaguered but valorous Detroit Institute up the road. And the words in a big neon sign by the British artist Martin Creed, now on the exterior of the contemporary-art museum, should be emblazoned high in the city sky. ''Everything Is Going to Be Alright,'' the sign says, and its illuminated message shines brightest at night. 
 The reopened galleries are on permanent view at the Detroit Institute of Arts, 5200 Woodward Avenue, (313) 833-7900, dia.org; ''Words Fail Me'' continues through Jan. 20 at the Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit, 4454 Woodward Avenue, (313) 832-6622, mocadetroit.org. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An art review in Weekend on Friday about the Detroit Institute of Arts, which has been reorganized and has expanded its gallery space, misidentified the country of birth for Nii O. Quarcoopome, the curator who oversees the reinstalled African galleries. It is Ghana, not Nigeria. A picture caption with the review misidentified the region of Africa where a nail-figure sculpture was made. It was Central Africa, not West Africa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A West African nail figure from around the late 19th century. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM PIDGEON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E46)
''St. Jerome in His Study'' (about 1435), attributed to Jan van Eyck. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS) (pg. E46)
 DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS: The Great Hall of this museum, above, reopening today after an extensive renovation, with works across cultures, from Italy, far left, to Nigeria, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM PIDGEON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CEMETERIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); RELIGION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



482 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: New Mayor's Top Task: Fight a Wave of Crime

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The day after Michael Nutter won a landslide victory to become this city's next mayor, he put on a charcoal gray suit and drove to his first public event: the funeral of a police officer shot in a brazen daytime robbery.
 Two nights before he announced his choice for police commissioner, two more officers were shot and wounded.
 When Mr. Nutter takes office on Jan. 7, he will face a crime wave that has left at least 355 people dead so far this year and that gave Philadelphia the highest homicide rate of any big city in the country last year, with 406 killings -- more than even New York City, which has six times the population.
 Crime is clearly the biggest challenge facing the new mayor. It is also the reason for his surprise victory. 
 Just 12 months ago, Mr. Nutter, a 50-year old former city councilman, was a little-known candidate with a controversial plan to reduce crime who was working 20-hour days, handing out Nutter Butter cookies to voters in a desperate effort to climb out of fifth place in a five-man race. 
 Now, he has been called the Seabiscuit of this year's urban politics, having beaten two congressmen, a veteran state legislator and a billionaire businessman in the Democratic primary in May before taking the general election on Nov. 6 by a four-to-one ratio, the largest the city has seen since 1931. 
 Mr. Nutter distinguished himself on the campaign trail with aggressive plans to declare crime emergencies in the city's most violent neighborhoods, which could allow the police to close streets or set curfews. He also offered plans for an increased use of ''stop, question and frisk'' tactics to confront anyone the police suspect is carrying an illegal weapon. 
 Responding to concerns by opponents about the risk of civil rights abuses and racial profiling, Mr. Nutter said bluntly, ''My view is that people also have a civil right not to get shot.''
 But crime is not the only reason for Mr. Nutter's rise.
 Voters also see him as the antidote to the political malaise that set in from what many here simply call ''the bug.'' The term refers to the bribery scandals unveiled by a federal wiretap of the office of the current mayor, John F. Street, and an investigation made public in 2003 that led to the conviction of the city treasurer.
 Though Mayor Street, who was never charged, did not seek a third term this year because of term limits, Mr. Nutter won because he was able to strike the starkest contrast to him, political analysts here said. 
 ''The investigations turned his administration into a lame duck from an early moment in his second term at a time when the city needed a proactive, accessible, get-things done leader,'' said G. Terry Madonna, professor of public affairs and director of the Keystone Poll at Franklin & Marshall College. ''So, instead of running the city, Street is seen a couple months ago standing in line for hours in front of a store to be the first to person to get the new iPhone. The public saw that as endemic of a guy who had become irrelevant, who had no pull and who had all the wrong priorities.''
 By contrast, Mr. Nutter is seen as an able leader with a strong mandate. When he walked into a restaurant with a reporter for lunch, he received a spontaneous standing ovation. 
 He will face a looming budgetary crisis and the risk of alienating one of the city's largest voting blocs when he enters negotiations in July for a new contract with the union for about 30,000 current and retired municipal workers.
 Crime, however, is the most urgent concern.
 On Oct. 30, a masked gunman fired on several people in a car before shooting and wounding a nearby police officer just blocks from Drexel University, where a Democratic presidential debate was taking place. The shooting sparked a frenetic scene in front of the debate hall as ambulances and police cars filled the area, sirens blaring. Twelve hours later, another officer was shot, this time fatally, in a daytime robbery.
 ''Crime here is an economic problem, it's an education problem, it's a public safety problem and it's something that we're going to have to aggressively tackle,'' said Mr. Nutter, who pushed for an annual tax credit of up to $10,000 for each ex-offender a business hires for up to three years. 
 But Mr. Nutter is best known for having helped change the city charter to strengthen ethics and transparency standards, and for pushing through legislation involving wage-tax cuts, same-sex partner benefits and a smoking ban at most bars and restaurants.
 Still, not everyone believes his stop-and-frisk tactics will work. 
 ''While I'm the police commissioner, I'm not going to do it,'' said the outgoing commissioner, Sylvester Johnson. 
 He said Mr. Nutter's plan would backfire because it would sow dissent in the neighborhoods where Mr. Johnson's department has worked hard to build trust. As evidence of the improved relations, Mr. Johnson cited the thousands who turned out in response to the call for 10,000 men to participate in community patrols and to defend their neighborhoods against crime. 
 Mr. Nutter said he believed the increased stop-and-frisk tactics could be carried out in ways that did not impinge on civil rights, and he added that he believed most of those concerns had been raised by people who did not live in the neighborhoods most affected by the crime. 
 Raised in a gritty section of West Philadelphia by his mother, who worked for Bell Telephone, Mr. Nutter went to the University of Pennsylvania before becoming an investment manager focused on public finance. He joined the City Council in 1992 and served until 2006.
 His wife, Lisa, runs an organization that provides job training to high school children. He has a 12-year-old daughter, Olivia, and a 24-year-old son, Christian. He drinks no caffeine, does not smoke and eats no meat (''I lost my stomach for meat after reading a little too much in college about how it gets processed,'' he said).
 Mr. Nutter said he learned the most about politics in the summer of his freshman year at Penn, when he was a disc jockey and helped manage the old Impulse Disco, one of the city's first black-owned discotheques.
 ''You're shaking a lot of hands, managing people many of them older than you, you're running a business, and you're constantly in public view,'' he said, recounting his signature shout-out from that era: ''Mixmaster Mike, laying the labels on the tables for the ladies tonight.'' At the after-party on election night, he dazzled the crowd by taking the microphone and giving a spirited rendition of the 1979 Sugarhill Gang hit ''Rapper's Delight.''
 But Anna C. Verna, president of the City Council, said voters supported Mr. Nutter primarily for his work ethic. 
 ''Michael can be really fun, and he has a great sense of humor,'' Ms. Verna said. ''But when it comes time to do business, he is all about business and the fact is, right now in this city there is a lot of serious business to be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Nutter, who takes office in January, offered plans to declare crime emergencies in Philadelphia's most violent areas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICS (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); BRIBERY (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (72%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); CURFEW (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); SCANDALS (67%); WIRETAPPING (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



483 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Shift Cash Out of U.S. Investments

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Many in Japan are starting to speak of ''quitting America,'' but they are not talking about a rise in anti-American political fervor. Rather, they mean a move away from American investments that is altering global capital flows and helping to weaken the dollar.
 The move is seen in decisions of individual investors like Daijo Okudaira, a 66-year-old clerk at a Tokyo consulting company. Like many Japanese, Mr. Okudaira had long limited his overseas investments to the relative safety of securities from developed countries, particularly the United States. 
 Starting late last year, however, Mr. Okudaira made drastic changes to his portfolio, putting $50,000 into mutual funds focusing on stocks in China and other emerging economies. He said he had been drawn to these countries because they seemed to hold much brighter growth prospects than the United States.
 ''People say the engine of the global economy is shifting from the United States to emerging countries,'' Mr. Okudaira said. ''Emerging countries have growth and energy that America and Europe lack. They remind me of Japan 40 years ago.''
 Japan's legions of individual investors like Mr. Okudaira have emerged as a global financial force to be reckoned with, directing almost half a trillion dollars of their nation's $14 trillion in personal savings overseas in search of higher returns. Until recently, much of this huge outflow of cash, known as the yen-carry trade, had gone into United States stocks, bonds or currency, propping up the dollar's value.
 Now, however, Japanese individuals are diverting more and more of that money away from the United States and the dollar and into higher-yielding global investments, ranging from high-interest Australian government bonds to shares in fast-growing Indian construction companies. Partly this ''quitting America'' -- called beikoku banare in Japanese -- reflects an increasing sophistication of Japan's investors, who embraced mutual funds only a decade ago and are still learning to diversify. But it also offers one more sign that the world does not depend as much on the American economy as it once did. 
 Recent figures on mutual fund purchases suggest this trend has accelerated since August, when subprime problems shook Wall Street -- and along with it, faith in the United States economy. Since early August, the dollar has fallen almost 8 percent against the yen, a decline many analysts here say offers another indication of Japan's waning appetite for dollar-denominated investments.
 ''One lesson of August was the failure of American markets to recover,'' said Akiyoshi Hirose, head of research at Daiwa Fund Consulting, a research company based in Tokyo specializing in mutual funds. ''On the other hand, Asia's emerging countries did recover quickly. So money is flowing out of the United States and Europe and into these newer markets.''
 In October alone, Japanese individuals pulled 33.9 billion yen, or about $300 million, out of mutual funds that invested solely in North American stocks and bonds, according to Daiwa Fund. In the same month, it said, Japanese individuals put 175.2 billion yen, or $1.6 billion, into funds investing in stocks and bonds in emerging countries.
 In the last 12 months, Japanese individuals invested 1.97 trillion yen, or $17.5 billion, into emerging market mutual funds, according to Daiwa Fund, and during the same period, they removed 447 billion yen, or $4 billion, from North America-only mutual funds. 
 Demand for emerging market funds has gone up so sharply that asset management companies added 48 such funds in the past year, bringing the total number to 183, the company said. Meanwhile, it said, the number of United States-focused funds rose by just 3, to 137. 
 To be sure, some analysts caution that the popularity of emerging markets may prove to be a fad, especially if stock markets in China or India start falling as quickly as they rose. Analysts also say the dollar's greater familiarity gives it an enduring appeal among many Japanese, who may return once the United States mortgage problems subside. 
 Some analysts predicted the eventual revival of short-term currency trading between the dollar and the yen, which had been an important support for the dollar's value before August's market turmoil.
 ''A lot of dollar-buyers are just sidelined now,'' said Tohru Sasaki, chief exchange strategist in the Tokyo office of JPMorgan Chase Bank. ''They'll be back once currency markets settle down.''
 PCA Asset Management, a Japanese arm of a British firm, said that until last year, its most popular product was a United States bond fund. Now, the company says, 80 percent to 90 percent of the investment money it receives flows into its emerging-market funds, all focused on Asia. To meet demand, the company has added five new Asia-focused mutual funds since January 2006. The most popular, a fund investing in stocks of infrastructure-related companies in India, has grown to $1.4 billion in assets in just one year.
 Takashi Ishida, head of investment at PCA Asset, said the emerging-market funds have proved particularly popular with investors in their 50s and 60s, an age group that remembers Japan's period of high growth four decades ago. He said these Japanese now believe they recognize the same sort of heady growth in developing Asian countries like China, India and Vietnam.
 ''Asian emerging markets appear safe to invest in because they seem familiar to many Japanese,'' Mr. Ishida said.
 Many individual investors agree, citing vague impressions of cultural affinity in explaining their optimism in Asian emerging markets. Okiko Ebata, one of a half-dozen individuals gathered on a recent afternoon for an investing seminar in Tokyo, said she had invested in overseas stocks for the first time late last year, choosing a mutual fund that focused on Vietnam. She acknowledged it was a riskier choice than United States or European stocks, but said she felt comfortable.
 ''I've heard people in Vietnam resemble Japanese,'' said Ms. Ebata, 59, as the rest of the group nodded in agreement. Two others also said they had invested in the last year in mutual funds focused on India or Southeast Asia.
 In a separate interview, Mr. Okudaira, the clerk, said his China fund had doubled in value in less than a year. But even if Chinese investments cannot keep up such rates of return, he said, he and other Japanese will continue to diversify where they put their savings.
 ''I now have money invested in America, Europe, as well as in Asia,'' Mr. Okudaira said. ''Japanese are learning to how to reduce risk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A securities company in Tokyo. Firms are adding emerging market funds in response to demand. (PHOTOGRPAH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



484 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Down on the Farm With Your Sleeves Rolled Up

BYLINE: By EMILY BIUSO

 BODY:
AT an early morning hour most vacationers would spend unconscious, a few intrepid city dwellers outfitted in borrowed boots hunch over a creek full of watercress, carefully cutting the plants with kitchen scissors. 
 For their hosts, farmers in the Blue Ridge Mountains of western North Carolina, it's the start of a regular workday. But for the visitors, it's a delicate balance between learning on the fly and trying to be of use on a working farm.
 Hoeing, seeding and picking may not sound like a holiday, yet the appeal of agritourism is gaining in the United States. More and more people want to see where their food comes from, and the same drive that leads them to visit farmers' markets or join community-supported agriculture farm-share programs draws them to the farm itself. 
 ''I shop at the farmers' market, but I didn't really know how these people operate or how a farm functions,'' said Elizabeth Schafer, who works for a visual-effects company in Los Angeles and decided to visit Maverick Farms in Valle Crucis, N.C., after a year of working 50-to-60-hour weeks. ''It definitely made me appreciate what needs to be accomplished to put food on the table.'' 
 The arrangement at Maverick Farms is simple: vacationers pay $120 a night to stay in a room in the hosts' beautiful two-story, 125-year-old farmhouse, and they are also invited to work at harvesting, seeding and other chores. For each hour of labor, $7 is deducted from the bill. Up to 25 percent of the bill can be worked off. At night, the farmers cook dinner from food they grew, and the guests/laborers are encouraged to join them. At the end of the stay, visitors can, if they like, leave a donation for the food they've eaten.
 Agritourism includes a wide variety of farm activities. Though most visitors simply spend an afternoon picking fruit or feeding animals, others remain several days, contributing labor to tasks ranging from planting crops to building greenhouses.
 In Vermont, income from agritourism totaled $19.5 million in 2002, nearly twice the amount in 2000, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. Though there are no similar statistics for more recent years, agritourism leaders in the state say the figures continue to rise. In North Carolina, 46 percent of agritourism operators surveyed by the state Department of Agriculture reported an increase in income in 2004 from 2003. And in Tennessee, agritourism enterprises directly added about $17 million to the economy in 2006 and bring in more than three million visitors a year, according to the state agritourism coordinator.
 ''It's grown because more farmers are finding out it's an important avenue to bring in revenue and stay on the farm,'' said Rich Pirog, associate director of the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State University in Ames. ''Secondarily, it's increasing because we've moved to an experience economy. People want to have a farm experience.''
 Melissa Gunderson is a chef and caterer in Norcross, Ga. She, her husband, Eric, and their two young sons, Sam and Benjamin, visited Maverick in September. Since their stay, Ms. Gunderson has noticed a new appreciation of eggs by 3-year-old Sam. When she cracks one open for a recipe, he remembers seeing them up close in Maverick's chicken coop. ''I'm so shocked he remembers that experience,'' she said.
 MAVERICK FARMS is a working farm that was started by five novices in 2004, all friends in their 20s and 30s. Three had grown up on farms, but none had experience running one. They began it to help preserve family land from development, and important components of the farm's daily practices are reducing waste, saving energy and fostering local involvement whenever possible. Boarding tourists who want to learn about farming has always been part of the business model. 
 ''Agritourism is an incredible education tool,'' said Tom Philpott, a co-founder and co-director of Maverick who also writes about food and farming for the environmental Web site Grist.org. ''This is a way to come and do a typical afternoon on a farm. Maybe somebody does this, and it sparks something.''
 Mr. Philpott was first exposed to farming when he traveled around Italy and stayed at agriturismos. In Italy, such projects have been supported by the government since 1985, and farmers receive tax breaks to play host to visitors. It's a much more robust industry there and elsewhere in Europe, and many American farmers and educators have traveled abroad to see what methods can be imported from the Europeans.
 Beth Kennett, the owner of Liberty Hill Farm in Rochester, Vt., accompanied Senator Patrick Leahy on a 1998 trade mission to Ireland and saw how agritourism was done there.
 ''In Ireland, they consider this economic development,'' she said. ''It put a whole other spin on it for me. I thought: 'This is real. This is a business model. We can emulate this in Vermont.'''
 In the mid-1990s, Ms. Kennett, other local farmers and the University of Vermont Extension Service formed the Vermont Farms! Association to organize agritourism in the state. After the trip with Senator Leahy, the association received an agritourism grant from the Department of Agriculture, according to Ms. Kennett, who is now the association's chairwoman. Today, it offers training, support and marketing to farmers and provides guidance to associations in other states.
 Jill Adams of Adams Farm in Wilmington, Vt., and secretary of Vermont Farms!, is a fifth-generation farmer on her family's land but not the first to welcome paying guests. In the 1880s, her ancestors put up families from New York who sought a retreat from city life. Her parents, William and Sharon Adams, closed off the farm to concentrate on dairy farming in the early 1970s, but in 1980 they decided to diversify and bought a team of Belgian draft horses to pull sleighs filled with visitors around the farm.
 The popularity of the rides and interest in the farm led the Adamses to take the government's offer to buy their whole herd of cattle as part of a federal program in 1986. The family was no longer in dairy farming, and they began to focus on agritourism and marketing their maple syrup and other products directly to consumers. In 1992, Jill Adams reopened the farm to the public. She now has more than 10,000 visitors a year. In addition to the sleigh rides, visitors can milk goats, gather eggs from the chicken coop, watch sheep herding and see yarn being spun.
 Duncan Hilchey, an agriculture development specialist at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., attributes the growth of agritourism to globalization and urbanization.
 ''Farmers are realizing that food can be produced elsewhere cheaper,'' he said. ''Adding education is a way to stay in business. As cities gobble up farmland, you're going to have to produce things that have more value.''
 For many visitors, part of the draw is giving money directly to small farmers.
 ''I think people are starting to realize what they lost,'' said Ms. Kennett of Liberty Hill Farm. ''Here in our little valley of six towns, 11 farms were shipping milk 28 years ago. Now we're the last one.''
 More than 1,000 overnight guests stayed at Ms. Kennett's farmhouse last year. If guests at Liberty Hill want to pick up a hoe they may, though most just want a way to interact with the animals a bit, perhaps by feeding a calf. ''Part of it is nostalgia,'' she said. ''But part of it is 'Wait a minute, what's going on here?' People are starting to think about their food choices. Food politics has become a huge topic of conversation around my dinner table.'' 
 This is also true at Maverick, where the dinner discussions ranged from globalization to community-supported agriculture programs to building infrastructure for local farms. ''It's so much more than farming,'' said Alyssa Rudolph, the farm manager at Maverick. ''It's a lot about the conversation.''
 But being an agritourist isn't all social responsibility and education. It's also about the pleasure of eating food you plucked from the vine, the satisfaction of getting your hands dirty and the joy of spending so much time outdoors. 
 Jill Adams sees the transformation in city-weary travelers who visit Adams Farm. ''One of the things we get is: 'Oh my God, look at the stars.'''
 MORE INFORMATION
 Adams Farm 15 Higley Hill Road, Wilmington, Vt. (802-464-3762, www.adamsfamilyfarm.com), about 130 miles northwest of Boston. 
 Rates: No overnight stays. A visit to the indoor livestock barn is $6.95 for adults and $5.95 for children age 2 to 12. Sleigh rides are $18 for adults and $9 for children age 4 to 12.
 Schedule: Open year-round, with sleigh rides beginning mid-December. 
 LIBERTY HILL FARM 511 Liberty Hill Road, Rochester, Vt. (802-767-3926, www.libertyhillfarm.com), about 160 miles northwest of Boston.
 Rates: $90 a night for each adult, $70 for teenagers and $50 for children 12 and under. Dinner and breakfast are included.
 Schedule: Open year-round.
 MAVERICK FARMS 410 Justus Road, Valle Crucis, N.C. (828-963-4656, www.maverickfarms.org), about 110 miles northwest of Charlotte.
 Rates: $120 per room a night, with an opportunity to work off up to 25 percent of the bill at $7 an hour.
 Schedule: February through November.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: YEOMAN SERVICE: A field being dressed with lime, above left, and manure, right, at Maverick Farms in North Carolina, one of a growing number of agritourism enterprises.
 REALITY TOURISM: At Maverick Farms, footwear for field work and a cautionary sign remind visitors that farm work can be both dirty and dangerous. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



485 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2716 words

HEADLINE: Theater Listings

 BODY:
THEATER
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 This week's listing includes shows not affected by the stagehands' strike.
 Previews and Openings
 'CYMBELINE' In previews; opens on Dec. 2. The top-shelf cast of this Lincoln Center revival includes Jonathan Cake, Martha Plimpton, Michael Cerveris and Phylicia Rashad. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.
 'DORIS TO DARLENE: A CAUTIONARY VALENTINE' In previews; opens on Dec. 11. A biracial schoolgirl from the 1960s becomes a pop star in one of the three intertwined stories of Jordan Harrison's time-traveling play (1:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.
 'LULU' Performances start on Tuesday. Closes on Dec. 1. Performed in German with English supertitles, this new production of Frank Wedekind's famous drama of desire is part of the BAM Next Wave festival (1:50). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, 0(718) 636-4100. 
 'OH THE HUMANITY AND OTHER GOOD INTENTIONS' In previews; opens on Thursday. Marisa Tomei stars in this collection of five short plays by Will Eno (''Thom Pain'') (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. 
 'PUMPGIRL' In previews; opens on Dec. 4. Abbie Spallen's hit from the Bush Theater in London is about a woman who works at a rundown gas station and becomes obsessed with the local racetrack (2:25). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. 
 'QUEENS BOULEVARD (THE MUSICAL)' In previews; opens on Dec. 3. Inspired by an Indian dance, this Chuck Mee musical is about a new husband searching for the perfect gift for his bride. Signature Theater at the Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. 
 'TRUMPERY' In previews; opens on Dec. 5. A new comic play about Charles Darwin's struggle to write ''The Origin of the Species,'' and another explorer about to come up with the same theory at the same time. Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200.
 'YELLOW FACE' In previews; opens on Dec. 10. David Henry Hwang's comedy about race and the theater is inspired by the controversial casting of Jonathan Pryce in the original Broadway production of ''Miss Saigon'' (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.
 Broadway
 'THE NEW MEL BROOKS MUSICAL YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN' This tiring adaptation of Mr. Brooks's 1974 movie, directed by Susan Stroman and starring an amiable but overwhelmed Roger Bart, never seems to stop screeching at you. This means that: a) it soon wears out its voice, and b) it leaves you with a monster-size headache (2:45). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Ben Brantley) 
 'PYGMALION' David Grindley's misfired revival of Shaw's classic comedy pairs a de-sexed, infantile Henry Higgins (Jefferson Mays) with a hard-working but affectless Eliza Doolittle (Claire Danes). Chemistry? ''Not bloody likely,'' as Eliza would say. With excellent supporting performances from Boyd Gaines and Helen Carey (2:25). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)
 'THE RITZ' This oddly inert revival of Terrence McNally's risque 1975 farce set in a gay bathhouse demonstrates that yesterday's dirt is often today's dust. But it does feature a delicious turn by Rosie Perez as a talentless chanteuse, and Kevin Chamberlin as the evening's much put-upon straight man. Joe Mantello directs. (1:55). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 
 'XANADU' An improbably entertaining spoof of the majestically awful movie from 1980 about a Greek muse (Olivia Newton-John, roller-skating into oblivion) who inspires a young artist in Venice Beach, Calif., to chase his disco dream. Kerry Butler mimics Ms. Newton-John's Aussie accent and sports her signature skates-and-leg-warmers look, but also puts her own affectionate stamp on a seriously silly role. The impish playwright Douglas Carter Beane, who wrote the adaptation, also supplies great material for the domineering comic actresses Jackie Hoffman and Mary Testa. Blissfully idiotic, practically sublime (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)
 Off Broadway
 'THE BROTHERS SIZE' Loosely based on West African myths, this impressive and emotionally absorbing debut by Tarrell Alvin McCraney portrays two battling brothers in Louisiana (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 
 (Jason Zinoman) 
 'CRIME AND PUNISHMENT' The novel every high school student dreads is somehow made compelling (and short!) in this three-actor production by the Writers' Theater of Chicago. John Judd is outstanding as the inspector who patiently waits out poor Raskolnikov (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'DIE MOMMIE DIE!' A happy play about haute homicide in Beverly Hills, written by Charles Busch, who also portrays the irresistibly evil has-been heroine. Mr. Busch manages to summon an entire host of over-the-hill screen sirens from the twilight of Hollywood's golden age (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'THE 4TH GRADERS PRESENT AN UNNAMED LOVE-SUICIDE' Imagine Pinter as a 9-year-old and you get a sense of the eerie style of this Chicago import about a group of classmates putting on the play of their friend who just committed suicide (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 
 'THE GLORIOUS ONES' An energetic new musical by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens about a commedia dell'arte troupe in which bawdy shenanigans of yore are combined with the sweet sentiments of traditional American musical comedy. It's like a whoopee cushion that emits a wistful sigh (1:40). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'GONE MISSING' A delightful revival of the Civilians' revue of songs and monologues about lost shoes, cellphones, jewelry and maybe an illusion or two. The sharp young company brings energy and wit to both the collagelike text, composed of odd tales of dispossession, and Michael Friedman's eclectic cavalcade of pastiche songs. Brisk, funny and clever (1:15). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)
 'HAMLET' The Wooster Group's sometimes ravishing, often numbing homage to a fabled theatrical event: Richard Burton on Broadway as the Prince of Denmark in 1964. Juxtaposing a film of the performance with live actors, who replicate the on-screen action, the production teeters between hypnotic and narcotic. Elizabeth LeCompte directs (3:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8750. (Brantley) 
 'A HARD HEART'Kathleen Chalfant, as a cerebral genius, miraculously finds the lifeblood in Howard Barker's otherwise bloodless, essay question of a play about a war-torn city (1:40). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Caryn James) 
 'MAKE ME A SONG: THE MUSIC OF WILLIAM FINN' A neon portrait of William Finn, composer of ''Falsettos,'' ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee'' and much else, glows above the stage of this eager revue, and his voice, with a hint of the same sardonic smile, emerges from all of his songs, no matter which member of the four-person cast is singing them (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anne Midgette) 
 'MASKED' A powerful play about three Palestinian brothers torn by the dilemma of accommodation or resistance to the Israeli occupation of the West Bank. Written by an Israeli, the play is a thoughtful and sobering drama that avoids political statements or moral judgments (1:25). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Wilborn Hampton) 
 'THE OVERWHELMING' J. T. Rogers's smart and honorable drama about blundering Americans in Rwanda presents a sprawling panorama of perspectives on a nation in turmoil. Fluidly directed by Max Stafford-Clark, the production never quite evokes lives that are real instead of representative (2:20). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 
 'PETER AND JERRY' A beautifully acted double bill of linked plays by Edward Albee, ''Zoo Story'' and ''Homelife,'' written more than 40 years apart, that confirm his enduring and unparalleled skills in exploring the feral soul beneath civilized skins. Pam MacKinnon directs the top-flight cast: Johanna Day, Bill Pullman and Dallas Roberts. (2:00). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Brantley) 
 'THE PIANO TEACHER' Elizabeth Franz gives a haunting performance as a gentle-hearted woman who discovers that evil has tainted a seemingly blameless life. Julia Cho's finely wrought play tells a thought-provoking story about the transmission of violence and the corruption of innocence (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. 
 (Isherwood) 
 'REBEL VOICES' These staged readings, earnest but flat, present voices of the disenfranchised, from Frederick Douglas to 1930s labor organizers and today's antiwar activists (1:30). The Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. (James) 
 'THE RECEPTIONIST' The ever-wonderful Jayne Houdyshell answers phones, gossips and gives motherly advice in an office where disturbing work is afoot. Adam Bock's play, essentially a gloss on the ''Twilight Zone'' formula, is a zippy hour and change of comedy and suspense (1:10). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. 
 (Isherwood) 
 'RICHARD III' Michael Cumpsty adds to his accomplished gallery of Shakespearean portraits with his seductive turn as the lively schemer in quest of a crown who does away with half the court. The production, directed by Mr. Cumpsty and Brian Kulick, puts a firm accent on the black comedy in a play as deeply dyed in dramatic irony as it is drenched in blood (2:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood) 
 'THE RISE OF DOROTHY HALE' Myra Baistow has fashioned an intriguing but uneven look at the real-life case of Dorothy Hale, a minor actress with important friends (including Harry Hopkins, adviser to President Franklin D. Roosevelt), who fell to her death from the Hampshire House on Central Park South in 1938. The case has eerie parallels to the Marilyn Monroe story (1:45). Theater at St. Luke's, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger) 
 'SECRET ORDER' Taut and twist-filled, Bob Clyman's entertaining drama goes behind the scenes at a prestigious (and fictional) Manhattan cancer institute to discover plenty of passions getting in the way of dispassionate science (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 
 'SPEECH AND DEBATE' Stephen Karam's modest dark comedy about three misfit high school students, which includes a singing, dancing tribute to ''The Crucible,'' is funny, cliche-free and brilliantly performed (1:45). Black Box Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (James) 'THINGS WE WANT' Jonathan Marc Sherman's thickly whimsical comedy of despair has a seriously cool cast (Paul Dano, Peter Dinklage and Josh Hamilton) and a director to match in Ethan Hawke. But this dysfunctional family portrait mostly feels like an internal monologue distributed among four characters (2:00). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley) 'VENGEANCE' Ron Fitzgerald's ''Rats,'' featuring a terrific performance by Michael Mosley as an unemployed adman with an unexpected visitor, is the high point of this entertaining bill of five new short plays, presented by stageFarm. Gina Gionfriddo's ''Squalor'' takes a skewed look at the search for Internet pedophiles, and ''Specter,'' by Neena Beber, is a daffy take on a certain record producer named Phil. Five actors do it all, impressively (1:20). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 868-4444.
 (Genzlinger) 
 Off Off Broadway
 'THE PIONEER: 5 SHORT WORKS BY EUGENE O'NEILL' These early, little-known one-acts by Eugene O'Neill at the Metropolitan Playhouse are rich if not particularly subtle; when they work, they work by brute force. What comes through strongest is O'Neill's sympathy for the downtrodden and trapped, and his instinctive understanding of what makes a play dramatic (1:30). The Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302. (Rachel Saltz)
 'ODE TO THE MAN WHO KNEELS' Richard Maxwell, one of the few truly original theater auteurs to emerge from the past decade, has created a bleak, droll and strangely beautiful musical about cowboys and the women who hurt them (1:15). Performing Garage, 33 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 966-3651. (Brantley) 
 Extravaganzas
 'BIG APPLE CIRCUS: CELEBRATE!' An occasion to celebrate (2:15). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. 
 (Lawrence Van Gelder) 
 'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' A superspectacular (1:30). Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-1000. (Van Gelder) 
 Last Chance
 'BAD JAZZ' Robert Farquhar packs his raunchy comedy with oral sex, anal sex, vomiting and anything else he can think of to make what turns out to be a small point about stage directors and actors who get carried away by realism. Though the outrageous fun runs out before the play does -- it's two intermissionless hours -- the actors of the Play Company, directed by Trip Cullman, give it a rousing go. (2:00). Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'BODY PARTS' There's some decent satire in this comedy by Ishmael Reed about drug companies, conservative talking heads and assorted other things, but the sheer number of targets makes it less sharp than it could be. Amateurish performances don't help (1:30). The Nuyorican Poets Cafe, 236 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 465-3167; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'HAMLET' A mere description is probably all you need to know whether this production is for you: a shortened ''Hamlet'' performed by marionettes on a working carousel. The best moments in this show by the Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theater come near the end, once the killing starts; the carousel's inescapable round-and-round begins to make sense. Clifton Hyde's live music is also a high point (1:15). Jane's Carousel, 56 Water Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'MAURITIUS' Ersatz Mamet -- ''American Buffalo,'' to be exact. Theresa Rebeck's deftly formulaic drama about a power struggle over a rare stamp collection has the feeling of an expertly drawn blueprint on tracing paper. Doug Hughes directs a tasty cast that includes Alison Pill, Bobby Cannavale and F. Murray Abraham (2:00). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 
 'NONE OF THE ABOVE' An uneven revival of a slight comedy that wants to be taken seriously. There are some clever one-liners, but much of the humor is of the sitcom variety. A bigger problem in this staging is a lack of chemistry between the play's two characters ends nov 25 (1:45). Lion Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes on Sunday. (Wilborn Hampton) 
 'THE RUNNER STUMBLES' As Father Rivard, a priest on trial for the murder of a nun, Mark Montgomery almost shambles onto the stage, his eyes dull in his raw-boned face, defeat etched into the lines of a body that seems to have grown strange to him. His performance is the linchpin in this fine revival of a true-crime play (1:00). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (Midgette) 
 'SIVE' The Irish Rep throws itself away on this clunky 1959 melodrama about a schoolgirl married off to a rich old man (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737; closes on Sunday. (James) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); THEATER (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); WRITERS (74%); POP & ROCK (69%); EVOLUTION THEORY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



486 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

 BODY:
A STORM'S LINGERING COST After 15 years, the visible damage of Hurricane Andrew has largely disappeared, but homeowners nationwide are still feeling the effect of the storm, one of the worst of the century, in their pocketbooks. 
 QUITTING AMERICA Many Japanese investors are moving away from American investments, altering global capital flows and helping to weaken the dollar. [C1.]
 WANING ENTHUSIASM FOR WIND A gleaming new wind park in Sweden testifies to the remarkable rise of wind energy as a mainstream power source used in 26 nations, including the United States. But wind energy is coming under sharper scrutiny from energy experts who question its reliability as a source of power. [C1.]
 BOND INSURER GETS A LIFT Shareholders of the French bank Natixis will take over its bond insurance unit, CIFG Guaranty, in a $1.5 billion rescue to preserve its top credit rating. [C2.]
 TURNING THE TABLES ON RISK In the turmoil of asset-based securities, some of Wall Street's safest institutions have turned out not to be, while some perceived as risky are so far sailing through. What brought the party to an end was not giant loans to buyout clients but the subterranean world of mortgage-related debt. Insider. [C1.]
 PITCHING EUROSTAR Rail Europe, which sells tickets in the United States for Eurostar's high-speed train service between Paris and London, has a new advertising campaign that it hopes will excite Americans enough about European tourism that they can put aside any concerns about exchange rates. Advertising. [C3.]
 THREAT OF GENE-MODIFIED CORNEuropean Union environmental officials have determined that two kinds of genetically modified corn could harm butterflies, affect food chains and disturb life in rivers and streams, and they have proposed a ban on the sale of the seeds. [C3.]
 $300 BILLION LOSS SEEN Losses in the distressed mortgage sector of the United States could reach $300 billion, only a portion of which has so far been accounted for by write-offs at major banks, according to a study released on Thursday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. [C3.]
 CHINA'S CURRENCY LEAKS A Chinese businesswoman has been arrested and accused of supervising currency transactions worth more than $500 million, spotlighting the extent of illegal currency flows out of China into Hong Kong. [C5.]
 ENI LINKS WITH GAZPROM Eni of Italy has agreed to form a 50-50 joint venture with the Russian gas export monopoly Gazprom to operate a new gas export pipeline to south Europe costing at least $14 billion. [C5.]
 STOCKS REBOUND IN EUROPE European stocks rebounded, led by drug makers and utilities, whose profits are less vulnerable to an economic slowdown. The Topix index in Japan extended its drop from a February peak to 21 percent, making Japan the first of the world's 10 biggest stock markets to enter a bear market this year. [C6.]
 COMPANIES WARY OF AUDITORS A conflict is growing between auditors and their corporate clients, amid pressure on both sides to do more to root out corporate wrongdoing and fraud. Companies are increasingly concerned that auditors could be required to turn over confidential records to outsiders, exposing corporations and executives to lawsuits from shareholders or whistle-blowers and unwanted scrutiny by regulators. [C4.]
 CHINESE CARS FOR MEXICO The Chinese automaker First Automobile Works Group will begin exporting cars to Mexico by year's end, looking to tap into the domestic market for inexpensive cars. [C2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); BONDS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HURRICANES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); WIND POWER PLANTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); INSURANCE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RIVERS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TRAINS (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (58%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%); NATIXIS SA (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); KN (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SWEDEN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (71%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



487 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'WHO IS NORMAN LLOYD?'; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Surviving Hitch, Welles And Time

BYLINE: By MATT ZOLLER SEITZ

 BODY:
It's hard to know where to begin admiring the subject of ''Who Is Norman Lloyd?,'' a documentary about the veteran actor, director and producer. 
 For starters there's the resume. Mr. Lloyd, who was born in 1914, has been a member of Orson Welles and John Houseman's Mercury Theater company, the producer of the American stage production of Bertolt Brecht's ''Galileo'' (starring Charles Laughton), a friend and tennis partner of Charlie Chaplin, a star of Alfred Hitchcock's thriller ''Saboteur'' and the show runner for ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' a resister of the Hollywood blacklist and a regular on television's ''St. Elsewhere.''
 On top of that Mr. Lloyd has been happily married to the same woman, the actress Peggy Lloyd, since 1936, still acts in everything from Hollywood features to student films and is a tennis fanatic. (He plays singles and doubles on screen with much younger partners; when he serves, the ball goes ''thwop.'') 
 The documentary's director, Matthew Sussman, has made a valentine to a show business legend. But luckily this is a rare case in which the subject is, by consensus, such an accomplished man and decent fellow that the director can't be accused of overdoing it. 
 Mr. Lloyd played Cinna the poet in the Mercury Theater's 1937 version of ''Julius Caesar'' so movingly that he all but defined that production. In 1940 he followed Welles out to Los Angeles to act in his version of ''Heart of Darkness,'' which collapsed before filming could begin. Wary of being disappointed twice, Mr. Lloyd declined to participate in Welles's next project, ''Citizen Kane,'' but rebounded with the title role in ''Saboteur'' (which is being shown by Film Forum on a double bill with this documentary). He went on to act in Hitchcock's ''Spellbound,'' then took a job with the production company of the director Lewis Milestone (''All Quiet on the Western Front''). 
 Mr. Lloyd admits that although he was grateful to Milestone for giving him filmmaking experience and elevating him and Ms. Lloyd on Hollywood's social ladder, the best thing about knowing Milestone was that it let him get close to Chaplin, Jean Renoir and, most of all, Hitchcock. 
 After Mr. Lloyd landed on the blacklist for refusing to identify alleged Communists, he was unemployed for many years, dependent on the kindness of friends like Mr. Houseman, who let the Lloyds stay at one of his homes virtually rent free. Hitchcock returned him to employability, insisting in 1957 that Mr. Lloyd be hired as a producer on his CBS series. When Mr. Lloyd speaks on camera of his blacklist experience, his voice quakes and his eyes well up.
 One of the documentary's intriguing aspects is its subtle depiction of a man building and sustaining his image over a lifetime.
 Mr. Lloyd, who is interviewed throughout and serves as the movie's de facto storyteller, has a fairy tale narrator's voice, with an East Coast ''society'' cadence one rarely hears anymore except in old movies. He was actually born in Jersey City and raised in Brooklyn; at one point he lets the accent slip so we can hear what he sounded like before the elocution studies took hold. 
 Here and there, though, we get the sense of a Norman Lloyd who is earthier and scrappier than the sweet raconteur showcased on screen, as when Mr. Lloyd goes to visit his old friend Karl Malden, 95, and stops just short of affectionately calling Mr. Malden an unprintable epithet on camera. 
 The short documentary (just over an hour) opens with the television producer Tom Fontana, who was a writer on ''St. Elsewhere,'' describing Mr. Lloyd as a combination of Peter Pan and Father Time, and it's hard to disagree. Above all else ''Who Is Norman Lloyd?'' is an inspiring film about growing old, emphasis on ''growing.'' 
 WHO IS NORMAN LLOYD?
 Opens today in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Matthew Sussman; director of photography, Arthur S. Africano; edited by Ray Hubley; produced by Joseph Scarpinito and Michael Badalucco; released by Journeymen Films. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of the Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 1 hour 7 minutes. This film is not rated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Norman Lloyd in Alfred Hitchcock's 1942 film ''Saboteur.'' Right, Mr. Lloyd in the 2007 documentary about his life. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM FILM FORUM/JOURNEYMAN FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); SPORTS FANS (70%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Who Is Norman Lloyd (Movie)>; Who Is Norman Lloyd (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



488 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Drug Makers Help Lead Rebound in Overseas Shares

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Global stocks rebounded yesterday from their lowest point in more than two months, led by drug makers and utilities, whose profits are less vulnerable to an economic slowdown. United States markets were closed because of the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 GlaxoSmithKline, Europe's largest drug company, Takeda Pharmaceutical of Japan and British Energy all advanced. Air France-KLM gained the most in more than four years after reporting earnings that beat analysts' estimates.
 ''We see a flight to safety,'' said Helge Rechberger, head of equity market research at Raiffeisen Zentralbank in Vienna. Stock investors are buying ''utilities, health care and phone companies.''
 The MSCI world index added 0.3 percent, to 1,547.25, in London, as a gauge of drug stocks advanced the most since August. Futures on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 0.6 percent, to 1,426.
 The MSCI Asia Pacific index, however, lost 0.6 percent, to 153.81, its lowest close since Sept. 18. The Topix index slid 0.1 percent, extending its drop from a February peak to 21 percent. The Topix's slump yesterday made Japan the first of the world's 10 biggest stock markets to enter a bear market this year.
 European two-year note yields were near the most since 2004 against their United States equivalents as traders bet that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates while the European Central Bank maintains current levels. The dollar set a record low against the euro for a third day.
 Europe's Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index rose 0.8 percent, to 351.86. The FTSE 100 in Britain increased 1.4 percent, and the German DAX added 0.6 percent. The CAC 40 in France climbed 0.7 percent.
 The S&P/TSX composite index in Canada increased 0.5 percent, while the Bovespa index in Brazil rose 0.4 percent.
 British Energy, Britain's biggest power generator, surged 5.7 percent to 484.75 pence. Goldman Sachs raised its price estimate on the stock 4.4 percent, to 716 pence.
 E.On, Germany's biggest utility, gained 1.1 percent, to 139.24 euros.
 Air France climbed 11.9 percent to 24.73 euros, the steepest advance since May 2003 after it reported that fiscal second-quarter profit doubled. British Airways, Europe's third-biggest carrier, gained 5.7 percent, to 484.75 pence, and Deutsche Lufthansa, the region's second-largest airline, added 3.6 percent, to 17.78 euros.
 China Merchants Bank, the country's largest dual-currency credit card issuer, declined 3.7 percent, to 37.30 yuan. Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, the Chinese partner of Citigroup, dropped 4.9 percent, to 46.92 yuan.
 Natixis rallied a record 17 percent, to 13.09 euros, on news that CIFG Guaranty, a bond insurer owned by Natixis, will receive $1.5 billion in fresh capital to protect its triple-A credit rating and be taken over by the French bank's controlling shareholders.
 Lafarge, the world's biggest cement maker, added 2.3 percent, to 103.10 euros, after Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); EURO (86%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FUTURES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MERCHANT BANKING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (64%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (60%); THANKSGIVING (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); RAIFFEISEN ZENTRALBANK OESTERREICH AG (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); CHINA MERCHANTS BANK CO LTD (51%); SHANGHAI PUDONG DEVELOPMENT BANK CO LTD (50%); NATIXIS SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 4502 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); 3968 (HKSE) (51%); KN (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (50%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) EAST CHINA (76%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



489 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4005 words

HEADLINE: Theater Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
KLEYNKUNST! After the First World War, Poland became an independent nation after more than a hundred years of foreign rule. In Warsaw, where a quarter of the population was Jewish, the city's rising class of secular Jews included lots of artistic types who were riding the new wave of Polish nationhood and looking toward a bright future. Kleynkunst teaters (little art houses) thrived during this vibrant period, offering irreverent, politically charged Yiddish cabaret that drew from a variety of sources, including Weimar cabaret, Russian folk music, jazz, tango and traditional cantorial music. Sadly, it's a type of performance that has largely been lost to time, but Rebecca Joy Fletcher, the writer and creator of ''Kleynkunst! Warsaw's Brave and Brilliant Yiddish Cabaret,'' is bringing it back. ''It's almost unimaginable for most American Jews how vital, hip and avant-garde Yiddish-speaking Warsaw was between the wars,'' she said. 
 Ms. Fletcher, who is also a cantor, started working on her theatrical cabaret about a year ago. With the help of research assistants in Israel and Poland, as well as several professors and ethnomusicologists, she has tried to recreate an authentic Yiddish cabaret while simultaneously telling the story of the art form itself. The show, performed in both English and Yiddish, includes songs from the period in new arrangements by Bob Goldstone. And if you don't speak Yiddish, no need to fear -- the majority of the text is in English, and the Yiddish parts are translated on supertitles in both English and Russian. 
 ''Kleynkunst!'' opens the 93rd season of the National Yiddish Theater -- Folksbiene, and is performed by Ms. Fletcher, above with Stephen Mo Hanan (''Cats''), whom Folksbiene regulars will remember from last season's ''Di Yam Gazlonim!,'' a Yiddish version of ''The Pirates of Penzance.'' (In previews; opens on Thursday; Goldman-Sonnenfeldt Auditorium at the JCC in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, 212-279-4200, ticketcentral.com; $40 to $50.) STEVEN McELROY 
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 This week's listing includes shows not affected by the stagehands' strike.
 Previews and Openings
 'CYMBELINE' In previews; opens on Dec. 2. The top-shelf cast of this Lincoln Center revival includes Jonathan Cake, Martha Plimpton, Michael Cerveris and Phylicia Rashad. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.
 'DORIS TO DARLENE: A CAUTIONARY VALENTINE' In previews; opens on Dec. 11. A biracial schoolgirl from the 1960s becomes a pop star in one of the three intertwined stories of Jordan Harrison's time-traveling play (1:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.
 'LULU' Performances start on Tuesday. Closes on Dec. 1. Performed in German with English supertitles, this new production of Frank Wedekind's famous drama of desire is part of the BAM Next Wave festival (1:50). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, 0(718) 636-4100.
 'OH THE HUMANITY AND OTHER GOOD INTENTIONS' In previews; opens on Thursday. Marisa Tomei stars in this collection of five short plays by Will Eno (''Thom Pain'') (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. 
 'PUMPGIRL' In previews; opens on Dec. 4. Abbie Spallen's hit from the Bush Theater in London is about a woman who works at a rundown gas station and becomes obsessed with the local racetrack (2:25). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. 
 'QUEENS BOULEVARD (THE MUSICAL)' In previews; opens on Dec. 3. Inspired by an Indian dance, this Chuck Mee musical is about a new husband searching for the perfect gift for his bride. Signature Theater at the Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. 
 'TRUMPERY' In previews; opens on Dec. 5. A new comic play about Charles Darwin's struggle to write ''The Origin of the Species,'' and another explorer about to come up with the same theory at the same time. Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200.
 'YELLOW FACE' In previews; opens on Dec. 10. David Henry Hwang's comedy about race and the theater is inspired by the controversial casting of Jonathan Pryce in the original Broadway production of ''Miss Saigon'' (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.
 Broadway
 'THE NEW MEL BROOKS MUSICAL YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN' This tiring adaptation of Mr. Brooks's 1974 movie, directed by Susan Stroman and starring an amiable but overwhelmed Roger Bart, never seems to stop screeching at you. This means that: a) it soon wears out its voice, and b) it leaves you with a monster-size headache (2:45). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Ben Brantley) 
 'PYGMALION' David Grindley's misfired revival of Shaw's classic comedy pairs a de-sexed, infantile Henry Higgins (Jefferson Mays) with a hard-working but affectless Eliza Doolittle (Claire Danes). Chemistry? ''Not bloody likely,'' as Eliza would say. With excellent supporting performances from Boyd Gaines and Helen Carey (2:25). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)
 'THE RITZ' This oddly inert revival of Terrence McNally's risque 1975 farce set in a gay bathhouse demonstrates that yesterday's dirt is often today's dust. But it does feature a delicious turn by Rosie Perez as a talentless chanteuse, and Kevin Chamberlin as the evening's much put-upon straight man. Joe Mantello directs. (1:55). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 
 'XANADU' An improbably entertaining spoof of the majestically awful movie from 1980 about a Greek muse (Olivia Newton-John, roller-skating into oblivion) who inspires a young artist in Venice Beach, Calif., to chase his disco dream. Kerry Butler mimics Ms. Newton-John's Aussie accent and sports her signature skates-and-leg-warmers look, but also puts her own affectionate stamp on a seriously silly role. The impish playwright Douglas Carter Beane, who wrote the adaptation, also supplies great material for the domineering comic actresses Jackie Hoffman and Mary Testa. Blissfully idiotic, practically sublime (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)
 Off Broadway
 'BINGO WITH THE INDIANS' Ideas and actors ricochet around the stage in Adam Rapp's chaotic yet intriguing dark comedy about a theater group planning to steal money from a bingo game (1:30). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, Tribeca, (212) 352-3101. (Caryn James)
 'THE BROTHERS SIZE' Loosely based on West African myths, this impressive and emotionally absorbing debut by Tarrell Alvin McCraney portrays two battling brothers in Louisiana (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 
 (Jason Zinoman) 
 'CRIME AND PUNISHMENT' The novel every high school student dreads is somehow made compelling (and short!) in this three-actor production by the Writers' Theater of Chicago. John Judd is outstanding as the inspector who patiently waits out poor Raskolnikov (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'DIE MOMMIE DIE!' A happy play about haute homicide in Beverly Hills, written by Charles Busch, who also portrays the irresistibly evil has-been heroine. Mr. Busch manages to summon an entire host of over-the-hill screen sirens from the twilight of Hollywood's golden age (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: RUDE AWAKENING' The 25th-anniversary version of Gerard Alessandrini's invaluable index to current American musicals has priceless moments (especially its parody of the hot-and-bothered antics of ''Spring Awakening''). But it's also a sobering reminder that even an inspired satirist can be defeated by emaciated targets (1:30). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 
 'FRANKENSTEIN' This dreary musical slog through the Mary Shelley novel, with an ill-used Hunter Foster in the title role, is not to be confused with the uptown spoof from Mel Brooks. It won't be (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)'THE 4TH GRADERS PRESENT AN UNNAMED LOVE-SUICIDE' Imagine Pinter as a 9-year-old and you get a sense of the eerie style of this Chicago import about a group of classmates putting on the play of their friend who just committed suicide (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 
 'FUERZABRUTA' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion. Thumping techno music, smoke and a standing throng surround you as you watch a curious collection of semi-spectacular technical feats (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'THE GLORIOUS ONES' An energetic new musical by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens about a commedia dell'arte troupe in which bawdy shenanigans of yore are combined with the sweet sentiments of traditional American musical comedy. It's like a whoopee cushion that emits a wistful sigh (1:40). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'GONE MISSING' A delightful revival of the Civilians' revue of songs and monologues about lost shoes, cellphones, jewelry and maybe an illusion or two. The sharp young company brings energy and wit to both the collagelike text, composed of odd tales of dispossession, and Michael Friedman's eclectic cavalcade of pastiche songs. Brisk, funny and clever (1:15). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)
 'HAMLET' The Wooster Group's sometimes ravishing, often numbing homage to a fabled theatrical event: Richard Burton on Broadway as the Prince of Denmark in 1964. Juxtaposing a film of the performance with live actors, who replicate the on-screen action, the production teeters between hypnotic and narcotic. Elizabeth LeCompte directs (3:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8750. (Brantley) 
 'A HARD HEART'Kathleen Chalfant, as a cerebral genius, miraculously finds the lifeblood in Howard Barker's otherwise bloodless, essay question of a play about a war-torn city (1:40). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (James) 
 'HOODOO LOVE' The playwright Katori Hall appears to have a strong and promising voice. But she is still working out how to articulate what she wants to say, and this uneven play is definitely a step along the way to an arrival that is still in the future. Ms. Hall casts a sprawling net around the story of an aspiring blues singer in 1930s Nashville, hauling in a fair number of cliches, some rather arbitrary plot points and some strong moments when the singer, Toulou, follows the man she loves, evades her no-account brother and turns to her elderly neighbor for some hoodoo help that ends up creating tragedy for all. Oddly, in a play that purports to be about music, the music is somewhat of an afterthought (2:20). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Anne Midgette) 
 'JUMP' Video game theater from Korea mixes martial arts and broad comedy with lowbrow results (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Zinoman) 
 'MAKE ME A SONG: THE MUSIC OF WILLIAM FINN' A neon portrait of William Finn, composer of ''Falsettos,'' ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee'' and much else, glows above the stage of this eager revue, and his voice, with a hint of the same sardonic smile, emerges from all of his songs, no matter which member of the four-person cast is singing them. Discursive scenes in themselves, Mr. Finn's songs are good revue material, making for a pleasant entertainment, though the presentation seems slightly stock -- with an eager, can-do, ain't-Broadway-grand spirit, given the acerbic nature of these specific and personal vignettes. Sally Wilfert, Sandy Binion, D. B. Bonds and Adam Heller are the earnest singers; Darren R. Cohen is the tireless pianist, literally at the evening's center (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.
 (Anne Midgette) 
 'MASKED' A powerful play about three Palestinian brothers torn by the dilemma of accommodation or resistance to the Israeli occupation of the West Bank. Written by an Israeli, the play is a thoughtful and sobering drama that avoids political statements or moral judgments (1:25). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Wilborn Hampton) 
 'MY FIRST TIME' Ken Davenport's venture into Web-theater synergy mines a site called MyFirstTime.com to cull stories of inaugural encounters with sex. Four actors deliver the anecdotes in what amounts to little more than a crassly commercial effort to replicate the success of ''The Vagina Monologues'' (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. 
 (Ginia Bellafante)
 'THE OVERWHELMING' J. T. Rogers's smart and honorable drama about blundering Americans in Rwanda presents a sprawling panorama of perspectives on a nation in turmoil. Fluidly directed by Max Stafford-Clark, the production never quite evokes lives that are real instead of representative (2:20). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 
 'PETER AND JERRY' A beautifully acted double bill of linked plays by Edward Albee, ''Zoo Story'' and ''Homelife,'' written more than 40 years apart, that confirm his enduring and unparalleled skills in exploring the feral soul beneath civilized skins. Pam MacKinnon directs the top-flight cast: Johanna Day, Bill Pullman and Dallas Roberts. (2:00). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Brantley) 
 'THE PIANO TEACHER' Elizabeth Franz gives a haunting performance as a gentle-hearted woman who discovers that evil has tainted a seemingly blameless life. Julia Cho's finely wrought play tells a thought-provoking story about the transmission of violence and the corruption of innocence (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. 
 (Isherwood) 
 'POLITICAL IDOL' Uneven but at times hilarious, this musical revue satirizing the presidential primaries does to politics what ''Forbidden Broadway'' does to theater (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 352-3101. (James)
 'REBEL VOICES' These staged readings, earnest but flat, present voices of the disenfranchised, from Frederick Douglas to 1930s labor organizers and today's antiwar activists (1:30). The Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. (James) 
 'THE RECEPTIONIST' The ever-wonderful Jayne Houdyshell answers phones, gossips and gives motherly advice in an office where disturbing work is afoot. Adam Bock's play, essentially a gloss on the ''Twilight Zone'' formula, is a zippy hour and change of comedy and suspense (1:10). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. 
 (Isherwood) 
 'RICHARD III' Michael Cumpsty adds to his accomplished gallery of Shakespearean portraits with his seductive turn as the lively schemer in quest of a crown who does away with half the court. The production, directed by Mr. Cumpsty and Brian Kulick, puts a firm accent on the black comedy in a play as deeply dyed in dramatic irony as it is drenched in blood (2:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. 
 (Isherwood) 
 'THE RISE OF DOROTHY HALE' Myra Baistow has fashioned an intriguing but uneven look at the real-life case of Dorothy Hale, a minor actress with important friends (including Harry Hopkins, adviser to President Franklin D. Roosevelt), who fell to her death from the Hampshire House on Central Park South in 1938. The case has eerie parallels to the Marilyn Monroe story (1:45). Theater at St. Luke's, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger) 
 'SECRET ORDER' Taut and twist-filled, Bob Clyman's entertaining drama goes behind the scenes at a prestigious (and fictional) Manhattan cancer institute to discover plenty of passions getting in the way of dispassionate science (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman) 
 'SPEECH AND DEBATE' Stephen Karam's modest dark comedy about three misfit high school students, which includes a singing, dancing tribute to ''The Crucible,'' is funny, cliche-free and brilliantly performed (1:45). Black Box Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (James) 'THINGS WE WANT' Jonathan Marc Sherman's thickly whimsical comedy of despair has a seriously cool cast (Paul Dano, Peter Dinklage and Josh Hamilton) and a director to match in Ethan Hawke. But this dysfunctional family portrait mostly feels like an internal monologue distributed among four characters (2:00). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)'THREE MO' TENORS' Great opera it ain't, but there's kitschy fun and not too much that's cringe-inducing in this diverse musical vehicle for black tenors (2:00). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Claudia La Rocco) 
 'TINGS DEY HAPPEN' An engrossing one-man show about the Fulbright year its author and performer, Dan Hoyle, spent in Nigeria; in the spirit of theatrical journalism, it is at once a travelogue, a cultural survey and a good introductory course in oil politics. But it is the people the audience meets who raise the exercise above a guided tour (1:25). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. 
 (Hampton) 
 'VENGEANCE' Ron Fitzgerald's ''Rats,'' featuring a terrific performance by Michael Mosley as an unemployed adman with an unexpected visitor, is the high point of this entertaining bill of five new short plays, presented by stageFarm. Gina Gionfriddo's ''Squalor'' takes a skewed look at the search for Internet pedophiles, and ''Specter,'' by Neena Beber, is a daffy take on a certain record producer named Phil. Five actors do it all, impressively (1:20). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 868-4444.
 (Genzlinger) 
 'WALMARTOPIA' This time-traveling musical satire is an uneasy mix of an earnest, power-to-the-workers message and blunt satire, positing an Orwellian future ruled by Wal-Mart. The music is a pastiche of styles, ranging from a Peter Allen conga line to gospel, but Cheryl Freeman's energetic performance as a put-upon Wal-Mart employee rises above it all (2:00). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (James)
 Off Off Broadway
 'THE PIONEER: 5 SHORT WORKS BY EUGENE O'NEILL' These early, little-known one-acts by Eugene O'Neill at the Metropolitan Playhouse are rich if not particularly subtle; when they work, they work by brute force. What comes through strongest is O'Neill's sympathy for the downtrodden and trapped, and his instinctive understanding of what makes a play dramatic (1:30). The Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302. (Rachel Saltz)
 'ODE TO THE MAN WHO KNEELS' Richard Maxwell, one of the few truly original theater auteurs to emerge from the past decade, has created a bleak, droll and strangely beautiful musical about cowboys and the women who hurt them (1:15). Performing Garage, 33 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 966-3651. (Brantley) 
 'THINGS ARE GOING TO CHANGE, I CAN FEEL IT' This unfocused multimedia piece about the '60s and politics feels like a student thesis (1:30). The Tank @ Collective Unconscious, 279 Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (James)
 Extravaganzas
 'BIG APPLE CIRCUS: CELEBRATE!' An occasion to celebrate (2:15). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. 
 (Lawrence Van Gelder) 
 'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' A superspectacular (1:30). Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-1000. (Van Gelder) 
 Long-Running Shows
 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 'THE FANTASTICKS' The Little Musical That Wouldn't Die redux (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)
 'MARY POPPINS' P. L. Travers meets Dr. Phil (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 
 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 
 Last Chance
 'BAD JAZZ' Robert Farquhar packs his raunchy comedy with oral sex, anal sex, vomiting and anything else he can think of to make what turns out to be a small point about stage directors and actors who get carried away by realism. Though the outrageous fun runs out before the play does -- it's two intermissionless hours -- the actors of the Play Company, directed by Trip Cullman, give it a rousing go. (2:00). Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'BODY PARTS' There's some decent satire in this comedy by Ishmael Reed about drug companies, conservative talking heads and assorted other things, but the sheer number of targets makes it less sharp than it could be. Amateurish performances don't help (1:30). The Nuyorican Poets Cafe, 236 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 465-3167; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'HAMLET' A mere description is probably all you need to know whether this production is for you: a shortened ''Hamlet'' performed by marionettes on a working carousel. The best moments in this show by the Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theater come near the end, once the killing starts; the carousel's inescapable round-and-round begins to make sense. Clifton Hyde's live music is also a high point (1:15). Jane's Carousel, 56 Water Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 
 'MAURITIUS' Ersatz Mamet -- ''American Buffalo,'' to be exact. Theresa Rebeck's deftly formulaic drama about a power struggle over a rare stamp collection has the feeling of an expertly drawn blueprint on tracing paper. Doug Hughes directs a tasty cast that includes Alison Pill, Bobby Cannavale and F. Murray Abraham (2:00). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 
 'NONE OF THE ABOVE' An uneven revival of a slight comedy that wants to be taken seriously. There are some clever one-liners, but much of the humor is of the sitcom variety. A bigger problem in this staging is a lack of chemistry between the play's two characters (1:45). Lion Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes on Sunday. (Hampton) 
 'THE RUNNER STUMBLES' As Father Rivard, a priest on trial for the murder of a nun, Mark Montgomery almost shambles onto the stage, his eyes dull in his raw-boned face, defeat etched into the lines of a body that seems to have grown strange to him. In the course of the play, told in flashback, he goes back and reanimates the figure and shows exactly how he turned from a passionate young idealist into a man on the edge of madness. His performance is the linchpin in this fine revival of a true-crime play that won awards in 1976 after its Broadway run, but has since been neglected; the cast is generally strong, and Scott Alan Evans directs with a keen eye to telling detail (1:00). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes on on Saturday. (Midgette) 
 'SIVE' The Irish Rep throws itself away on this clunky 1959 melodrama about a schoolgirl married off to a rich old man (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737; closes on Sunday. (James) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); WORLD WAR I (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); POP & ROCK (70%); WRITERS (69%); THEATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (91%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



490 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN GOD'S NAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1925 words

HEADLINE: Megachurches Add Local Economy to Mission

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES and ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
In Anchorage early in October, the doors opened onto a soaring white canvas dome with room for a soccer field and a 400-meter track. Its prime-time hours are already rented well into 2011.
 Nearby is a cold-storage facility leased to Sysco, a giant food-distribution corporation, and beside it is a warehouse serving a local contractor and another food service company. 
 The entrepreneur behind these businesses is the ChangePoint ministry, a 4,000-member nondenominational Christian congregation that helped develop and finance the sports dome. It has a partnership with Sysco's landlord and owns the warehouse. 
 The church's leaders say they hope to draw people to faith by publicly demonstrating their commitment to meeting their community's economic needs. 
 ''We want to turn people on to Jesus Christ through this process,'' said Karl Clauson, who has led the church for more than eight years. 
 Among the nation's so-called megachurches -- those usually Protestant congregations with average weekly attendance of 2,000 or more -- ChangePoint's appetite for expansion into many kinds of businesses is hardly unique. An analysis by The New York Times of the online public records of just over 1,300 of these giant churches shows that their business interests are as varied as basketball schools, aviation subsidiaries, investment partnerships and a limousine service.
 At least 10 own and operate shopping centers, and some financially formidable congregations are adding residential developments to their holdings. In one such elaborate project, LifeBridge Christian Church, near Longmont, Colo., plans a 313-acre development of upscale homes, retail and office space, a sports arena, housing for the elderly and church buildings.
 Indeed, some huge churches, already politically influential, are becoming catalysts for local economic development, challenging a conventional view that churches drain a town financially by generating lower-paid jobs, taking land off the property-tax rolls and increasing traffic. 
 But the entrepreneurial activities of churches pose questions for their communities that do not arise with secular development.
 These enterprises, whose sponsoring churches benefit from a variety of tax breaks and regulatory exemptions given to religious organizations in this country, sometimes provoke complaints from for-profit businesses with which they compete -- as ChangePoint's new sports center has in Anchorage.
 Mixed-use projects, like shopping centers that also include church buildings, can make it difficult to determine what constitutes tax-exempt ministry work, which is granted exemptions from property and unemployment taxes, and what is taxable commerce. 
 And when these ventures succeed -- when local amenities like shops, sports centers, theaters and clinics are all provided in church-run settings and employ mostly church members -- people of other faiths may feel shut out of a significant part of a town's life, some religion scholars said.
 Precedents in History
 Churches have long played an economic role. Medieval monasteries in Europe and Japan were typically hubs of commerce. In the United States, many wealthy denominations have long had passive investments in real estate. And churches, like labor unions and other nonprofit groups, have been involved in serving immigrants, the elderly and the poor.
 But the expanding economic life of today's giant churches is distinctive. First, they are active in less expected places: in largely flourishing suburbs and barely developed acreage far beyond cities' beltways and in communities far from the Southern Bible Belt with which they are traditionally associated. And in most cases -- as at ChangePoint in Anchorage -- these churches say their economic activities are not just an expression of community service but, more important, an opportunity to evangelize. The sports dome, for example, is a way to draw the attention of young families to the church's religious programs.
 ''We don't look at this as economics; we look at it as our mission,'' Pastor Clauson said. 
 Scott L. Thumma, a pioneer in the study of megachurches at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research at the Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, whose roster of churches was the basis for the Times analysis, said he has noticed churches that sponsor credit unions, issue credit cards and lend to small businesses.
 Although community outreach is almost always cited as the primary motive, these economic initiatives may also indicate that giant churches are seeking sources of revenue beyond the collection plate to support their increasingly elaborate programs, suggested Mark A. Chaves, a religious sociologist at Duke University.
 Investing Capital Assets 
 Also feeding this wave of economic activity is the growing supply of capital available to religious congregations. 
 The Evangelical Christian Credit Union in Brea, Calif., a pioneer in lending to churches and a proxy for this market shift, has seen its loan portfolio grow to $2.7 billion, from just $60 million in the early 1990s, said Mark A. Johnson, its executive vice president. Where bankers were once reluctant to lend to churches, the credit union now shares a market with some of the nation's largest banks.
 ChangePoint paid $1 million upfront and borrowed $23.5 million from a state economic development agency to buy a defunct seafood-packaging plant and warehouse out of foreclosure in July 2005. To do so, it formed a partnership with the for-profit owner of the cold-storage unit surrounded by the seafood plant's land. An affiliated nonprofit is developing the sports dome with a gift of $4 million worth of church land. The church controls these entities directly or through board appointments, said Scott Merriner, executive pastor and a former McKinsey consultant. 
 Pastor Clauson acknowledged that a few local businessmen who own sports facilities have complained about the subsidized competition they face from The Dome, a nonprofit organization. It is an issue the church takes seriously, he said.
 ''We don't want to be taking bread off of people's tables,'' the pastor said.
 But the sports dome ''is scratching such an enormous proverbial itch, there is no way we're harming anyone,'' he said, adding, ''There is more than enough need to go around.''
 Martin McGee, the Anchorage municipal assessor, acknowledged that the property poses an assessment challenge. Land and floor space used only by the church are exempt, he said, but the rest of the seafood plant site is taxable, and the tax treatment of the sports dome site is still under review.
 The tax issues will be even more complex for a megachurch project in Charlotte, N.C. There, the University Park Baptist Church paid $11.5 million late last year to buy the Merchandise Mart, a half-million-square-foot office and exhibition space.
 Some 57 percent of the space will ultimately be remodeled for church use, but the rest will bring new business activity to the neighborhood, said Claude R. Alexander Jr., the church's lead pastor who also serves on the board of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.
 His church has left its economic mark on the neighborhood it will leave behind when it moves to the mart. With its traffic added to that of another megachurch a few miles away, a once-quiet intersection between the two churches has recently seen the construction of fast-food outlets and other businesses.
 The traffic is unlikely to ease when University Park moves. The other nearby megachurch, the Friendship Missionary Baptist Church, already has zoning approval for Friendship Village, a complex of shops, apartments,homes, offices and housing for the elderly on 108 acres off Charlotte's beltway.
 According to Tom Flynn, the economic development officer for Charlotte, University Park's purchase of the Merchandise Mart already has prompted interest in older properties nearby. 
 A Complex Tax Challenge 
 The church, which formed a for-profit property management unit that also includes a small limousine service, envisions a mixture of commercial and religious uses at its new site -- with its own share of the space beginning around 38 percent and rising over time.
 What's a poor tax assessor to do?
 The entire site is currently taxable, said Alonzo Woods, the church's director of operations. But when the church moves in, it will seek exemptions for areas used ''strictly for church purposes.''
 Churches are moving into residential development, as well. Windsor Village United Methodist Church, one of two churches that own shopping centers in Houston, is teaming up with a national home builder to develop more than 460 homes in the southwestern section of the city.
 And in Dallas, The Potter's House, a 30,000-member church established by Bishop T.D. Jakes, is the linchpin in an economic empire that includes Capella Park, a community of 266 homes.
 Just how far-reaching the megachurch economy can become is clear at the First Assembly of God Church in Concord, a small community northeast of Charlotte. Under the umbrella of First Assembly Ministries are the church, with 2,500 in weekly attendance; a 180-bed assisted-living center; a private school for more than 800 students; a day-care center for 115 children; a 22-acre retreat center; and a food service -- all nonprofit. In addition, there is WC Properties, a for-profit unit that manages the church's shopping center, called Community at the Village, where a Subway outlet, an eye-care shop and other businesses share space with church programs that draw traffic to the mall.
 Doug Rieder, the church business administrator, said WC Properties files a federal tax return and pays property taxes on the commercial space at the mall.
 But Mr. Rieder acknowledged the difficulty of allocating space, staff time and expenses to the appropriate tax category. ''We're very intertwined -- it gets tough day to day,'' he said adding, ''I have to constantly ask myself whether I am accurately allocating our costs.''
 Concord was delighted to have First Assembly as the new landlord at the mall once anchored by Wal-Mart.
 ''That's a very crucial crossroads for the city,'' said W. Brian Hiatt, the city manager. ''And the church has been a great partner.''
 Another contribution the church makes to the city is a free daylong celebration it holds on Independence Day, complete with fireworks.
 Mr. Hiatt said no one seemed to find it awkward for a church to conduct the community's celebration marking the birth of a country committed to separation of church and state.
 ''It was a very positive event,'' he said.
 Mr. Rieder, the church business manager, paused when asked whether people of other faiths would have felt comfortable at the event.
 ''We try not to discriminate in doing community service,'' he said. ''There are Muslims and other non-Christians here, of course. And we do want to convert them, no doubt about it -- that's our mission. We don't discriminate, but we do evangelize.''
 The same quandary confronts Pastor Clauson in Anchorage. ''There is nothing inherently alienating about what we're doing economically,'' he said. ''An Orthodox Jewish youngster or a conservative Muslim child encountering our programs would find zero intimidation.''
 Nor does he want his community to become divided along religious lines, he said. But at the same time, ''we definitely want to use these efforts as an open door to the entity that we feel is the author and creator of abundant life -- Jesus.'' 
 He added, ''It's a tough balancing act.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Karl Clauson, a pastor, at a ChangePoint service in Anchorage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Above, Michelle Bacher, ChangePoint's worship coordinator. Right, players warmup at The Dome on ChangePoint's campus
ChangePoint's dome is so large that it is used as a navigational marker for planes headed into Anchorage International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A34) CHART: BRANCHING OUT: A sampling of business ventures that megachurches are involved with: Shopping malls Forest Park Mall Colonial Village Community At the Village The Power Center Kingdom Square Tallowood Center Rock Plaza Other businesses Willow Creek Association Country Preacher Pharmacy Country Preacher food-distribution company Travel Agency FAME Renaissance Home Loans FAME Renaissance Venture Group investment managers Hebrews Coffee coffee shop Sports and event facilities Basketball School, Roller Rink The Dome Riverbend Center event facility Living Word Christian Center Heartland Church First Assembly of God Church Windsor Village Memorial Church Sanctuary at Kingdom Square Tallowood Baptist Historic Little Rock Baptist Willow Creek Community Church Historic Little Rock Baptist Sanctuary at Kingdom Square First African Methodist Episcopal Church Bethel Church North Phoenix Baptist Church ChangePoint Riverbend Church Chicago Rockford, Ill. Concord, N.C. Houston Capitol Heights, Md. Houston Detroit South Barrington, Ill. Detroit Capitol Heights, Md. Los Angeles Redding, Calif. Phoenix Anchorage Austin, Tex. THE NEW YORK TIMES (Sources: Public records
 Church offices)(pg. A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); SOCCER (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); RETAILERS (69%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); TAX LAW (66%)

COMPANY: COMPUWARE CORP (84%)

TICKER: CPWR (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



491 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Shift Cost Burdens to Homeowners

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
PALMETTO BAY, Fla. -- Charles R. Williams stood near the glass sliding doors in his home south of Miami and pointed out parts of the ceiling and walls that had crumpled after Hurricane Andrew ripped open the roof 15 years ago.
 The visible damage from that storm, one of the worst of the century, has largely disappeared. But Mr. Williams and homeowners nationwide are still feeling its effect in their pocketbooks. 
 The storm stunned insurance companies and, after paying out more than $22 billion in claims in inflation-adjusted dollars, they began rewriting policies to protect themselves as much as homeowners. They also developed computer programs intended to limit payouts on claims. 
 As a result, American homeowners are having to make do with much less coverage at steadily rising prices. In Miami and other places along the coast, insurance prices have skyrocketed, deepening the national slowdown in home sales. 
 The insurers say they have had to take defensive measures to stay in business and pay claims as operating costs have climbed. ''If you're being overly generous in covering risks and you're not taking in sufficient premium, it doesn't make business sense,'' said Richard Ward, the chief executive of Lloyd's of London, a large insurer of homes and businesses in the United States. 
 Yet some industry experts and consumer advocates say that efforts by the insurers to increase profits, after years of taking losses on home insurance, are shifting more of the burden of repairs and reconstruction to homeowners. The cutbacks in coverage, consumer advocates say, have contributed to the slow recovery of the Gulf Coast from Hurricane Katrina and will most likely hamper recovery from the recent wildfires in California. 
 ''You have a different mentality at the insurance companies,'' said Andrew Barile, a consultant who has spent his life in the industry. ''They no longer worry about the public service aspect. They're concentrating on the bottom line.''
 The bottom line has been good recently. The property insurance industry, including home, auto and commercial coverages, reported a record profit of $44 billion in 2005, even after paying $41 billion in damages from Katrina. The industry set another record for profit in 2006 at $64 billion. And as a second hurricane season is coming to an end without a hurricane hitting the coasts, 2007 is shaping up to be another lucrative year. 
 The changes in insurance coverage have been gradual. They are spelled out in the revised policies. But few homeowners read their policies, and they are often unaware that coverage has been reduced until they are faced with making repairs or rebuilding their homes. In most of the country, reduced coverage is much more of a burden than rising premiums.
 Ten years ago, for example, the average cost of home insurance in America was $455 a year.
 Today, it is an estimated $886 for much less insurance. Along the coastlines, annual premiums on houses routinely run into the thousands of dollars. Contending that even those premiums are not high enough for the risk they face, the insurers have canceled or declined to renew several million policies. 
 Two years ago, the annual cost of coverage for Mr. Williams, a retired airline pilot, and his wife, a former flight attendant, rose more than 50 percent to $2,599, for about $250,000 in coverage.
 The insurers say they have tried to strike a balance that works for them and their customers. ''What insurers have tried to do,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, ''is to sell policies that provide people with coverage for the vast majority of losses they are likely to suffer at an affordable price.''
 ''A policy that covered every peril would be unaffordable for many if not most people,'' Mr. Hartwig said.
 Before Andrew, the insurers sold home insurance as a loss leader and loaded the policies with lavish benefits to attract customers for their car insurance and to build up capital in their investment portfolios. 
 ''It was a kind of avuncular, sleepy line of business,'' said William R. Berkley, the chief executive of W. R. Berkley, a commercial insurer in Greenwich, Conn. ''Then losses started to outstrip even what investment income might have been able to make up.''
 In those days, the standard home policy promised to pay for the replacement of a destroyed home, regardless of the cost. Now most policies pay the insured value of a house and up to about an additional 25 percent -- which is often not enough to rebuild, as many victims of the recent wildfires in California are discovering.
 As an example, a typical policy for a home valued at $300,000 usually pays up to $375,000. 
 One home destroyed by the California fires, for example, was insured for $4 million. The insurer, Chubb Insurance, estimated that rebuilding would cost $6 million, or 50 percent more than it was insured for. But Chubb is one of the few insurers still offering full replacement coverage. 
 By issuing full replacement policies, the risks of higher reconstruction costs and underestimates on home values fell on the insurance company. Now most companies put the risk on the homeowner. 
 In much of Miami and along the coast, the insurance companies no longer provide coverage for the most costly threat to homes: damage from hurricanes and other high winds. Now, Florida and several other states have created state-run insurance companies to provide the coverage. 
 Insurers that still sell policies against wind damage impose deductibles of at least 2 percent and as much as 5 percent, which is another way of reducing coverage. On a $300,000 home with a 5 percent deductible, the homeowner pays for the first $15,000 in damage, compared with the once standard deductible of $500.
 After Katrina, the reductions in coverage and the insurers' reluctance to pay claims contributed to thousands of lawsuits and out-of-court disputes and made it difficult for many to rebuild. 
 Flooding was extensive along the Gulf Coast. The insurers do not cover flood damage, and their policies say so. But most policies also contain clauses that rule out payment for wind damage that occurs in combination with flooding. 
 Many homeowners could not accept that flooding caused by hurricane winds could cancel out the battering by high winds that their homes suffered for hours before the water arrived. And they took their insurers to court. But a federal appeals court recently ruled that the insurers were within their rights to deny payments in those circumstances.
 Besides many angry customers, the insurers are facing federal and state investigations and a lawsuit by the attorney general in Louisiana into their coverage and claims-paying practices. 
 In a lawsuit filed this month, Charles C. Foti Jr., the attorney general in Louisiana, accused State Farm, Allstate and other insurers of using computer programs to gain ''an unjust advantage over policyholders'' in calculating premiums and paying claims. Private lawyers in Louisiana have filed similar lawsuits based on the testimony of former claims adjusters. 
 ''The idea that insurers conspired to limit claims is completely without merit and unsubstantiated,'' Mr. Hartwig said. 
 The insurers say they have resolved 99 percent of the 1.2 million claims from Katrina for damage to homes and that most people are satisfied. Most of the complaints, they say, have not been related to reductions in coverage but have resulted from expectations of homeowners that insurance policies would cover flood damage.
 Many people, Mr. Hartwig said, are ''searching for ways to fill the economic gap'' created by Hurricane Katrina. ''But,'' he said, ''the gap principally boils down to two words: flood insurance. If there had been 100 percent penetration of flood insurance, we wouldn't be having this conversation.''
 Tightening coverage and claims payments have produced spectacular results for the insurers, as shown in an economic snapshot of their performance in home insurance in 1992, the year of Andrew, and in 2005, the year of Katrina. 
 In 1992, the companies collected $20.5 billion in premiums and reported a pretax loss of $11.8 billion on home insurance, not counting earnings from investments, according to A. M. Best, an insurance rating agency. In 2005, the home insurers took in $52.2 billion in premiums and reported a pretax loss of $643.6 million; losses had been cut to a sliver of sales. In 2005, with investment earnings of $1.9 billion, the home insurers had a net gain, before taxes, of $1.3 billion.
 One measure of the new efficiency of the home insurance business is its ratio of claims expenses to premiums. In the year of Hurricane Andrew, the industry paid out $1.27 for every dollar of premium it collected. In 2005, the year of the more destructive Hurricane Katrina, the insurers paid out 71.50 cents for every dollar of premium.
 ''I could understand it if the insurance companies were cutting back on coverage, lowering their costs and passing on some of the savings to homeowners,'' said J. Robert Hunter, the director of Insurance at the Consumer Federation of America. ''But they've hollowed out their policies and they're keeping the benefits for themselves.''
 The insurers say that in a time of more powerful and more frequent hurricanes, they have to tailor their coverage and prices for overwhelming jolts. The huge increase in condo towers and homes along the coasts, they say, have multiplied their potential losses. 
 ''I guarantee you,'' Mr. Berkley said, ''as we move down the line, the profits you're seeing in the business today are going to take a significant hit.
 ''One meteorological wobble,'' he said of Hurricane Dean, which tore through the Caribbean and Mexico in August, and the storm ''would have hit Miami. And that's a $100 billion hit.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles R. Williams's home was damaged during Hurricane Andrew in 1992. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (77%); DAMAGES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); WEATHER (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); FIRES (63%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (68%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (68%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



492 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: $300 Billion In Write-Offs Is Predicted

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Losses in the distressed mortgage sector of the United States could reach $300 billion, only a portion of which has so far been accounted for by write-offs at major banks, according to a study released on Thursday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 Major financial institutions, including Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Swiss Re, have estimated losses of about $50 billion, but the O.E.C.D. cautioned that a rougher period may yet await financial markets, which have swooned in recent days as traders try to calculate the impact of mortgage-sector losses on the overall economy. 
 The O.E.C.D., based in Paris, is an international organization that helps governments with economic, social and governance issues. In particular, mortgage resets -- the point at which the interest rate on a loan shifts upward to reflect current borrowing costs -- have not peaked, but will probably do so next May, the organization said in the report.
 ''We still have not hit the worst point in resets, delinquencies and ultimate losses on mortgages,'' it said. 
 The group estimated the losses based on a 14 percent default rate on subprime mortgages, high by historical standards but entirely plausible under the current circumstances, economists say. Losses on subprime loans -- those made to the least creditworthy borrowers -- would cost lenders $125 billion, the organization said.
 Factoring in so-called Alt-A mortgages, ones given to people with better credit but still not high-end, the organization concluded that an overall loss level of $300 billion looked feasible. 
 The loss numbers reflect not just the value of the mortgages but also the total cost to lenders of a bad mortgage, once they have foreclosed on and sold the house to recoup, presumably, at least part of their losses. But, the organization said, much will depend on how banks react -- or are forced to react -- to future defaults.
 Banks and other investors are exposed to the mortgage market through securities backed by housing loans. The problem in financial markets could force write-offs far in excess of what actual defaults turn out to be. 
 By contrast, if they can hang on until the American housing market bottoms out and allows a fuller picture of what losses are, economists say, those losses can probably be absorbed with relatively little shock. 
 ''The most important variable the markets are facing right now is time,'' said Adrian Blundell-Wignall, an economist who worked on the study for the organization. ''Time is what lets you get out of jail in this case.'' 
 Investors have pounded stocks far afield of the financial sector in recent days as traders debated the risks of a broader hit from the credit crunch. If the worst situation were to occur, banks would constrict lending to the rest of the economy. 
 So far, most hints have been anecdotal, but nervous markets already feel compelled to discount the prospect in share prices, traders said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); SREN (SWX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



493 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Banks Gone Wild

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''What were they smoking?'' asks the cover of the current issue of Fortune magazine. Underneath the headline are photos of recently deposed Wall Street titans, captioned with the staggering sums they managed to lose.
 The answer, of course, is that they were high on the usual drug -- greed. And they were encouraged to make socially destructive decisions by a system of executive compensation that should have been reformed after the Enron and WorldCom scandals, but wasn't.
 In a direct sense, the carnage on Wall Street is all about the great housing slump. 
 This slump was both predictable and predicted. ''These days,'' I wrote in August 2005, ''Americans make a living selling each other houses, paid for with money borrowed from the Chinese. Somehow, that doesn't seem like a sustainable lifestyle.'' It wasn't.
 But even as the danger signs multiplied, Wall Street piled into bonds backed by dubious home mortgages. Most of the bad investments now shaking the financial world seem to have been made in the final frenzy of the housing bubble, or even after the bubble began to deflate.
 In fact, according to Fortune, Merrill Lynch made its biggest purchases of bad debt in the first half of this year -- after the subprime crisis had already become public knowledge.
 Now the bill is coming due, and almost everyone -- that is, almost everyone except the people responsible -- is having to pay.
 The losses suffered by shareholders in Merrill, Citigroup, Bear Stearns and so on are the least of it. Far more important in human terms are the hundreds of thousands if not millions of American families lured into mortgage deals they didn't understand, who now face sharp increases in their payments -- and, in many cases, the loss of their houses -- as their interest rates reset.
 And then there's the collateral damage to the economy.
 You still hear occasional claims that the subprime fiasco is no big deal. Even though the numbers keep getting bigger -- some observers are now talking about $400 billion in losses -- these losses are small compared with the total value of financial assets. 
 But bad housing investments are crippling financial institutions that play a crucial role in providing credit, by wiping out much of their capital. In a recent report, Goldman Sachs suggested that housing-related losses could force banks and other players to cut lending by as much as $2 trillion -- enough to trigger a nasty recession, if it happens quickly.
 Beyond that, there's a pervasive loss of trust, which is like sand thrown in the gears of the financial system. The crisis of confidence is plainly visible in the market data: there's an almost unprecedented spread between the very low interest rates investors are willing to accept on U.S. government debt -- which is still considered safe -- and the much higher interest rates at which banks are willing to lend to each other. 
 How did things go so wrong?
 Part of the answer is that people who should have been alert to the dangers, and taken precautionary measures, instead blithely assured Americans that everything was fine, and even encouraged them to take out risky mortgages. Yes, Alan Greenspan, that means you.
 But another part of the answer lies in what hasn't happened to the men on that Fortune cover -- namely, they haven't been forced to give back any of the huge paychecks they received before the folly of their decisions became apparent.
 Around 25 years ago, American business -- and the American political system -- bought into the idea that greed is good. Executives are lavishly rewarded if the companies they run seem successful: last year the chief executives of Merrill and Citigroup were paid $48 million and $25.6 million, respectively.
 But if the success turns out to have been an illusion -- well, they still get to keep the money. Heads they win, tails we lose. 
 Not only is this grossly unfair, it encourages bad risk-taking, and sometimes fraud. If an executive can create the appearance of success, even for a couple of years, he will walk away immensely wealthy. Meanwhile, the subsequent revelation that appearances were deceiving is someone else's problem.
 If all this sounds familiar, it should. The huge rewards executives receive if they can fake success are what led to the great corporate scandals of a few years back. There's no indication that any laws were broken this time -- but the public's trust was nonetheless betrayed, once again.
 The point is that the subprime crisis and the credit crunch are, in an important sense, the result of our failure to effectively reform corporate governance after the last set of scandals.
 John Edwards recently came out with a corporate reform plan, but it didn't receive a lot of attention. Corporate governance still isn't regarded as a major political issue. But it should be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); RECESSION (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (66%); HOUSING BUBBLE (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



494 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Ends Venezuela's Hostage Mediation Efforts

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jenny Carolina Gonzalez contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
President Alvaro Uribe withdrew his support late Wednesday for efforts by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela to broker the release of dozens of hostages believed to be held by this country's largest rebel group, including three American military contractors who were captured in 2003. 
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France quickly urged Mr. Uribe to reconsider; among the 45 or so political hostages seized by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, is Ingrid Betancourt, a former presidential candidate here with Colombian and French citizenship. 
 But Mr. Uribe, who had welcomed Mr. Chavez's offer in August to act as a mediator in the hostage negotiations, said Thursday that he had no intention of changing his mind. He said he based his decision on what he viewed as a breach of protocol by Mr. Chavez in contacting Gen. Mario Montoya, the top commander of the Colombian Army. 
 Mr. Chavez, with the help of a Colombian lawmaker assisting him in the talks, had telephoned General Montoya on Wednesday to ask for information about the hostages, despite a request from Mr. Uribe to refrain from direct contact with high-ranking military officials, the government here said in a statement. 
 ''Chavez is not known for respecting protocol, and Uribe's strength is not flexibility,'' said Michael Shifter, vice president for policy at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington research group that specializes in Latin America. 
 In a statement on Thursday, Venezuela's Foreign Ministry said, ''The Venezuelan government accepts Colombia's sovereign decision, but it expresses its frustration.'' 
 The decision follows disappointing results in the negotiations. Mr. Chavez met in Paris earlier this week with Mr. Sarkozy but was unable to present proof that Ms. Betancourt or any of the other hostages were alive. The FARC has demanded the release of about 500 imprisoned guerrillas in exchange for its captives.
 Political analysts here said the Marxist-inspired FARC, which has been waging a guerrilla war for the last four decades, could emerge strengthened. 
 ''The great losers are the family members of the captives,'' said Camilo Gomez, a former peace commissioner for Colombia's government. ''The winners are the FARC, which achieved an international political position they never had before,'' he said, referring to Mr. Chavez's meeting with a FARC emissary this month in Caracas. 
 Indeed, the despair of relatives of the hostages, some of whom have been held in jungle camps for almost a decade, intensified after Mr. Uribe's announcement. 
 ''I don't know how grave the incident was,'' said Patricia Perdomo, the daughter of a lawmaker held by the FARC since 2001, referring to Mr. Chavez's telephone call to General Montoya. ''What is grave is the situation in which the captives find themselves in once again.'' 
 The Americans held by the FARC are Marc Gonsalves, Thomas Howes and Keith Stansell, contractors for Northrop Grumman who were captured by the FARC in 2003 after their surveillance plane crashed in the jungle. The FARC, which finances itself through cocaine smuggling and kidnapping, calls the three men prisoners of war. 
 The United States sends Colombia about $600 million a year to combat drug smuggling and to battle the FARC and a smaller rebel group, the National Liberation Army, or E.L.N. Colombia is the largest recipient of American aid in the Americas. 
 On Wednesday, William R. Brownfield, the United States ambassador to Colombia, took a sharply critical view of the negotiations. ''We are two months and 22 days into this process and we still have no proof of life,'' said Mr. Brownfield, who previously served as Washington's top envoy to Venezuela. 
 Mr. Uribe, the Bush administration's closest ally in South America, harbors a special hatred for the FARC, accusing them of murdering his father in a botched kidnapping attempt in the 1980s. But Mr. Uribe, who has a cordial political relationship with Mr. Chavez, had surprised many people here by welcoming his role as a mediator. 
 Economic ties between Colombia and Venezuela remain resilient, but the political relationship between them seems headed into a new phase of uncertainty. Reports of Colombian rebel operations in Venezuelan territory along the border already raised tension in recent days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (83%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); ALVARO URIBE (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) COLOMBIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



495 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Ahmadinejad Is Rebuked By an Iranian Newspaper

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
An influential hard-line newspaper has made a rare direct attack on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad over his recent harsh accusations against veteran politicians before parliamentary elections in March.
 The daily, Jomhouri Eslami, criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad for calling a former nuclear negotiator, Hossein Mousavian, a nuclear spy and saying that influential politicians were using their power to have him cleared of those charges. Mr. Mousavian was a close aide to a former president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
 ''Lately, defaming political rivals has become common in the country and has replaced lawful behavior,'' the newspaper wrote in a front-page editorial on Wednesday. ''We want to reject this kind of behavior as immoral, illegal, illogical and un-Islamic, and remind wise figures that such a trend is dangerous for the country,'' it added. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has proven a divisive leader, with both hard-line conservative and reformist opponents finding fault with his economic programs and his harsh anti-Western rhetoric. But the criticism is often indirect, to avoid political repercussions. Jomhouri Eslami, however, is so established -- the current supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was once the managing editor -- that it is unlikely to be closed down or censored. 
 With parliamentary elections scheduled for March 2008 and presidential elections in spring 2009, Mr. Ahmadinejad and his rivals are stepping up their political positioning. His comments about Mr. Mousavian's case appear to be part of his efforts to discredit his political rivals as the West is increasing its pressure on Iran over its defiance to halt uranium enrichment activities. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has started a second round of trips to the provinces around the country since his election over two years ago. He often speaks about development for deprived areas and about the country's nuclear program, which appeals to nationalists. He has argued that former leaders have compromised over the program, and he has dismissed the idea that his confrontational policies could put the country in the face of a crisis. He has declared those who criticize his nuclear policy ''traitors.''
 But his political opponents have become more vocal in their criticism of him and have warned that his nuclear agenda can have dangerous consequences. Two former presidents, Mr. Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami, have warned that the country faces serious threats from foreign governments worried that the nuclear program is meant to create weapons, not energy, as Mr. Ahmadinejad portrays it.
 France and the United States say they have not dismissed military action against Iran if it does not halt its uranium enrichment program. 
 The former head of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, Mohsen Rezai, and Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf of Tehran, both influential hard-line figures, also expressed concerns over foreign threats this month. 
 And Hassan Rowhani, a former nuclear negotiator and a close aide to Mr. Rafsanjani, urged the government to distance itself from tension with the West. ''We must not give excuse to the enemy and provoke it with unwise statements,'' he said, according to newspapers.
 In addition, Rassoul Montajabnia, the deputy head of the reformist party Etemad Melli, warned that underestimating the threats was naive. ''We have to be realistic about the issues surrounding the nuclear file,'' he said, according to a news Web site, Aftab. ''The government does not see the threats and thinks the case is closed,'' he added. ''This is very naive and means fooling people.'' 
 Despite dismissing the threats, the authorities have also warned against any attacks on Iran. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); CENSORSHIP (73%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (94%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



496 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Tough Race In Australia For Supporter Of Bush

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
The center-right coalition of Prime Minister John Howard, who has been in power for 11 years and is one of the most stalwart supporters of President Bush in the Iraq war, faces a stiff challenge in Australia's elections on Saturday, polls indicate. 
 The most substantial difference between Mr. Howard and Kevin Rudd, the leader of a resurgent opposition Labor Party, has been over Australia's participation in the war. Mr. Rudd, who was a diplomat in Beijing, has promised to discuss a timetable to withdraw the 500 Australian troops in Iraq while remaining committed to the Anzus military pact, which ties Australia to New Zealand and the United States. 
 It has been a hard-fought race, but Australia has yet to lose a single soldier in combat in Iraq, and the conflict has played a relatively minor role in the campaign. 
 The leaders' personalities and their parties' gaffes have often drowned out talk of policy, which analysts say was muted anyway by a lack of substantial differences between the main parties.
 The final days of the campaign have been dominated by a scandal in which the husband of a candidate for Parliament from Mr. Howard's Liberal Party was photographed distributing leaflets that represented themselves to be from an Islamic group -- a fictitious one, it turned out -- thanking the opposition Labor Party for ''support to forgive our Muslim brothers who have been unjustly sentenced to death for the Bali bombings,'' in 2002, in which 88 Australians were killed. Mr. Howard said the party had not approved the leaflets, and the candidate, Karen Chijoff, knew nothing of her husband's plans.
 The scandal has been one more blow for Mr. Howard, 68, who has tried to pitch his government as the steady hand that has guided an economic boom.
 ''If we want the Australia we now have, if we want that nation and we want it to continue and to become even more secure and prosperous, that can only be achieved in one way and that is through the re-election of the coalition,'' he said Wednesday. 
 Labor, under the leadership of Mr. Rudd, 50, calls itself the party of change and promises to take a fresh approach to the issues that polls indicate are of most concern to Australians: the environment, industrial relations, education and health care.
 Mr. Howard is one of Australia's most experienced politicians, and few analysts will write him off. But in the latest poll by Newspoll, published Tuesday in The Australian, 54 percent of those surveyed favored Labor, based on a two-party vote, with the governing coalition on the defensive over inflation, interest rates, labor rights and the environment. 
 Interviews of 1,696 adults for the nationwide poll were done by phone on Nov. 16 to 18. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus two percentage points. 
 Chris Uhlmann, chief political reporter for Australian Broadcasting Corporation Radio, said, ''On a lot of things there isn't a huge difference.'' 
 Labor has jettisoned the socialist tone of much of its history, and today the parties agree broadly on budget and tax issues. Mr. Howard has capitalized on economic growth in his term, a period of huge increases in the value of Australia's major exports -- iron ore and coal -- because of Chinese demand. 
 Mr. Howard says his is the party of fiscal probity and accused Labor of a tax-and-spend mentality, while Labor tried to capture the economic high ground by pointing to his promises to spend billions on infrastructure, education, health and the military.
 Mr. Howard is particularly vulnerable on inflation. This month the central bank took the unusual step of raising interest rates in an election campaign, saying that it was trying to curb inflation. It was the sixth increase since the last elections three years ago.
 One of Mr. Howard's promises before that vote was to keep rates low, and Labor has exploited that.
 With no major domestic policy differences, Labor's strongest weapon may be boredom. Many analysts say voters are simply ready for a change. Mr. Howard has said he will resign in the next term in favor of the treasurer, Peter Costello, but that may be too little, too late.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ANZUS TREATY (57%)

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (90%); KEVIN RUDD (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



497 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-17
 As Brigades Leave, G.I.'s
 Will Expand Role in Iraq
 With a quarter of American combat brigades slated to leave Iraq by July, commanders plan to give the remaining combat troops an expanded role in training Iraqi forces.A1 
 Eleven people were killed in a Sunni village near Baghdad.A12 
 Meth Use Grows in Europe
 Methamphetamine has a powerful foothold in the Czech Republic and appears to be spreading to the rest of Europe.A1 
 Choices for India's Women
 A surging economy is loosening India's limitations on women, notably by allowing them to live independently.A1 
 Musharraf Case Dismissed
 Pakistan's Supreme Court, stacked with appointees loyal to Gen. Pervez Musharraf, dismissed the last legal challenge to his re-election as president. A3
 Assessing Iran's Cooperation
 The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said Iran must do more before the agency can verify key aspects of the country's nuclear program.A14
 An influential newspaper has made a rare attack on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.A14
 French Transit Strike Wanes
 A crippling national transportation strike in France appeared to be sputtering to an end.A6 
 Chavez Out of Hostage Talks
 Colombia's president withdrew his support for efforts by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela to broker the release of hostages believed held by rebels.A6 
 Abbas's Adviser Skeptical
 An adviser to Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, said it would be a ''miracle'' if Palestinian and Israeli diplomats agreed on a document to present at coming peace talks.A16
 China Landslide Deaths Rise
 Chinese authorities confirmed the deaths of about 30 more people from a landslide that struck earlier this week in the Three Gorges Dam region. A13
 NATIONALA18-24 
 Parolees and Probationers Crowding Neighborhoods
 Last year, 32,585 prisoners were released on state parole in Texas, and many of them returned to neighborhoods where they live among thousands of other parolees and probationers. Sunnyside, in Houston, is one of 10 such neighborhoods that accounted for 15 percent of the city's population, yet received half of the prisoners released. Neighborhoods like Sunnyside can be found in virtually every big city in the nation. A1 
 Hungry Candidates
 Running for president is like entering a competitive eating contest and a beauty pageant all at once. Candidates are expected to eat local specialties often and with gusto, yet still look attractive and fit. So it is no wonder that many of this year's candidates and spouses have what might be called food issues. A1 
 Philadelphia Crime Challenge
 When Michael Nutter takes office as Philadelphia's new mayor, he will face a crime wave that has left at least 355 people dead this year and that gave the city the highest homicide rate of any big city in the country last year. Crime is clearly the biggest challenge facing the new mayor. A18 
 Immigration Slows in Backlog
 Immigration authorities are swamped in new bureaucratic backlogs resulting from an unanticipated flood of applications for citizenship last summer and for residence visas, officials said. In July and August alone, the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services received 2.5 million applications, more than double the total applications the agency received in the same two months in 2006. A18 
 Transgender Official Sued
 Four years after Michelle Bruce won a City Council seat in Georgia, making her what is believed to be the state's first transgender politician, she is battling a lawsuit by an unsuccessful opponent who says she misled voters by running as a woman. A23 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA26-27
 New York City Homicides Are Lowest in Decades
 New York City is on track to have fewer than 500 murders this year, the lowest number in a 12-month period since reliable Police Department statistics became available in 1963. With roughly half the killings analyzed, only 35 were found to be committed by strangers, a small number in a city of 8.5 million. A26 
 Suicide Leads to Lawsuit
 Silver Hill Hospital, a nonprofit hospital in New Canaan, Connecticut specializing in psychiatric disorders and substance abuse, is being sued for wrongful death by the executor of a former patient's estate. A26 
 No Holiday for Shoppers
 Many stores remained open on Thanksgiving and offered bargains to draw out shoppers, a sign that retailers are worried that a weakening economy and high gas prices will depress holiday spending. A27
 BUSINESS DAYC1-6 
 Rates Up; Payouts Down
 American homeowners are having to make do with much less insurance coverage at steadily rising prices. Stunned by storms, insurance companies are writing policies to protect themselves as much as homeowners and relying on computer programs intended to limit payouts. C1 
 Is Wind Energy Reliable?
 Wind energy is now a power source used in 26 nations, including the United States. Yet Sweden's wind park is entering service at a time when wind energy is coming under sharper scrutiny from energy experts who question its reliability. C1 
 Diverting Yen From U.S.
 A move away from American investments that is altering global capital flows and helping to weaken the dollar is emerging among Japanese investors. Until recently investors were ferrying a sizable portion of their personal savings to the United States in search of higher returns. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESC7
 Maurice Bejart
 The French choreographer whose flamboyant and populist ballets made him the equivalent of a pop star in Europe, he was 80.C7
 Samuel L. Leonard
 A zoologist at Cornell University whose studies of reproductive hormones in animals helped prepare the foundation for in vitro fertilization in women, he was 101.C7
 EDITORIALA28-29
 Editorials: The immigration wilderness; digging in deeper in Pakistan; new numbers on AIDS.
 Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PAROLE (89%); PROBATION (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); MAYORS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); METHAMPHETAMINE (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); STRIKES (66%); CITIES (65%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); CRIME RATES (60%); LANDSLIDES (54%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (70%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (70%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHINA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



498 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Immigration Wilderness

 BODY:
The nation certainly sounds as if it's in an angry place on immigration.
 A major Senate reform bill collapsed in rancor in June, and every effort to revive innocuous bits of it, like a bill to legalize exemplary high school graduates, has been crushed. Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York hatched a plan to let illegal immigrants earn driver's licenses -- and steamrollered into the Valley of Death. Asked if she supported Mr. Spitzer, Senator Hillary Clinton tied herself in knots looking for the safest answer. 
 The Republican presidential candidates, meanwhile, are doggedly out-toughing one another -- even Rudolph Giuliani, who once defended but now disowns the immigrants who pulled his hard-up city out of a ditch. A freshman Democratic representative, Heath Shuler of North Carolina, has submitted an enforcement bill bristling with border fencing and punishments. Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, for whom restricting immigration is the first, last and only issue, says he will not run again when his term expires next year. I have done all I can, he says, like some weary gunslinger covered in blood and dust. 
 The natural allies of immigrants have been cowed into mumbling or silent avoidance. The Democrats' chief strategist, Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, went so far as to declare immigration the latest ''third rail of American politics.'' This profile in squeamishness was on full display at the Democratic presidential debate last week in Las Vegas, when Wolf Blitzer pressed the candidates for yes-or-no answers on driver's licenses and Mrs. Clinton, to her great discredit, said no.
 This year's federal failure will not be undone until 2009 at the earliest, while states and local governments will continue doing their own thing, creating a mishmash of immigration policies, most of them harsh and shortsighted. But the wilderness of anger into which Mr. Tancredo helped lead America is not where the country has to be on this vitally important issue, nor where it truly is.
 Mrs. Clinton was closer to being right the first time, when she haltingly defended Mr. Spitzer's reasoning. Fixing immigration is not a yes-or-no question. It's yes and no. Or if you prefer, no and yes -- no to more illegal immigration, to uncontrolled borders and to a flourishing underground economy where employer greed feeds off worker desperation. Yes to extending the blanket of law over the anonymous, undocumented population -- through fines and other penalties for breaking the nation's laws and an orderly path to legal status and citizenship to those who qualify. 
 These are the ingredients of a realistic approach to a complicated problem. It's called comprehensive reform, and it rests on the idea that having an undocumented underclass does the country more harm than good. This is not ''open-borders amnesty,'' a false label stuck on by those who want enforcement and nothing else. It's tough on the border and on those who sneaked across it. It's tough but fair to employers who need immigrant workers. It recognizes that American citizens should not have to compete for jobs with a desperate population frightened into accepting rock-bottom wages and working conditions. It makes a serious effort to fix legal immigration by creating an orderly future flow of legal workers. 
 Americans accept this approach. The National Immigration Forum has compiled nearly two dozen polls from 2007 alone that show Americans consistently favoring a combination of tough enforcement and earned legalization over just enforcement. Elections confirm this. Straight-talking moderates like Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico thrive in the immigration crucible along the southern border. Those who obsess about immigration as single-issue hard-liners, like the Arizonans J. D. Hayworth and Randy Graf, have disappeared, booted by voters. Voters in Virginia this month rejected similar candidates and handed control of the State Senate to Democrats.
 It may not be ''amnesty'' that gets Americans worked up as much as inaction. They seem to sense the weakness and futility in the enforcement-only strategy, the idea of tightening the screws on an informal apartheid system until it is so frightening and hopeless that millions of poor people pack up and leave.
 That is the attrition argument, the only answer the anti-amnesty crowd has to comprehensive reform. It is, of course, a passive amnesty that rewards only the most furtive and wily illegal immigrants and the bottom-feeding employers who hire them. It will drive some people out of the country, but will push millions of others -- families with members of mixed immigration status, lots of citizen children and practically a nation's worth of decent, hard workers -- further into hiding.
 We are already seeing what a full-bore enforcement-only strategy will bring. Bias crimes against Hispanic people are up, hate groups are on the march. Legal immigration remains a mess. Applications for citizenship are up, and the federal citizenship agency, which steeply raised its fees to increase efficiency, is drowning in paperwork and delays. American citizens are being caught up in house-to-house raids by immigration agents. 
 America is waiting for a leader to risk saying that the best answer is not the simplest one. As John Edwards said at the last debate, ''When is our party going to show a little backbone and strength and courage and speak up for those people who have been left behind?''
 He was talking about the poor and people without health insurance, but he could -- and should -- have included a host of others: Business owners who want to hire legal workers. Americans who don't want their opportunities undermined by the off-the-books economy. Children whose dreams of education and advancement are thwarted by their parents' hopeless immigration status. And the immigrants, here and abroad, who want to find their place in a society that once welcomed their honest labor, but can't find a way to do it anymore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); AMNESTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (76%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); RAHM EMANUEL (55%); HEATH SHULER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



499 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: INCREASED ROLE SOUGHT FOR G.I.'S IN IRAQ TRAINING

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
With violence in Iraq on the decline and a quarter of American combat brigades scheduled to leave by July, commanders plan to give the remaining brigades an expanded role in training and supporting Iraqi forces, according to officials involved in a confidential military review of the next phase of the American troop deployment. 
 The plan, not yet in final form, is intended to transfer more of the security burden in Iraq to the Iraqis without giving up the gains that the Americans have made in recent months in pacifying the most violent areas and weakening the Sunni insurgency.
 The approach is strikingly different from the plans advocated by many United States politicians, including some Democratic presidential contenders, who have called for a rapid withdrawal of American combat brigades from Iraq -- the very units that American commanders see as playing a central role in the transition toward Iraqi control. 
 It is intended to supplement the longstanding American efforts to recruit, equip and advise Iraqi forces by strengthening their ability to deal with a diverse array of threats. The plan also reflects the vision of American commanders of the evolving role of American combat units after President Bush's troop reinforcement plan runs its course next summer.
 Under the approach, some American combat brigades due to stay behind would slim down their fighting forces and enlarge the teams mentoring Iraqis. Within a 3,000-member brigade, for example, one or two battalions might help train the Iraqis while the rest would be retained as quick-reaction forces to back up the Iraqis if they ran into stiff resistance.
 The precise arrangements would vary depending on the threats and the quality of Iraqi forces in specific regions, and brigade commanders would have considerable leeway in deciding how many soldiers to commit to mentoring. But the shift toward training would be gradual, reflecting what commanders say have been lessons learned from the failure of earlier, overhasty efforts to transfer responsibility to the Iraqis. 
 Even after President Bush's ''surge'' of troops is over in mid-July and the number of brigades shrinks to 15 from the current level of 20, American units in some of the more highly contested areas would continue their combat roles. That is based on an assessment that the situation in Iraq is too uncertain and the Iraqi security forces in many areas too unsteady for an abrupt transfer of responsibilities. 
 The proposal for a new mix of forces is part of a broad review of the projected American military posture in Iraq for a phase that would begin in the second part of 2008. No final decisions have been made on the pace of further reductions or the details of how the plan would be carried out in Iraq. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, has told Congress that he will not issue new recommendations until March after an assessment of conditions. The basic approach, however, has begun to emerge.
 ''The White House has been informed conceptually,'' said one senior Bush administration official, referring to planning. ''Fundamentally, this concept is not going to change.'' 
 Transferring security to the Iraqis was at the core of the initial United States strategy in Iraq. Gen. George W. Casey Jr., General Petraeus's predecessor as Iraq commander, voiced optimism last year that the Iraqi military and police might be just 12 to 18 months from assuming the main responsibility. 
 But efforts to quickly transfer authority often backfired. In Diyala Province, for example, Iraqi Army commanders carried out a sectarian agenda, detaining local Sunni leaders whom American commanders were trying to engage, and failing to curb the inroads made by Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a largely Iraqi insurgent group that American intelligence officials say has foreign leadership. After much of Baquba, the provincial capital, fell under insurgent control, the American military was forced to mount an offensive in June to reclaim the city.
 American military officials assert that the situation has changed, which may make it easier for the Iraqi forces to assume more of a security role. Partly as a result of the American troop reinforcements and a new counterinsurgency strategy, violence has subsided, making security more manageable. Many Sunnis now reject Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, and thousands have volunteered in local neighborhood watch organizations. 
 In addition, the Iraqi military is expanding. It is creating three new divisions, including the 11th Iraqi Army Division to be established in Baghdad over the next several months. That unit will enable nine battalions sent to the capital from other regions to return home, strengthening the Iraqi military presence in those areas. 
 All told, the number of Iraqi soldiers is to grow from almost 200,000 by year's end to 255,000 by the end of 2008. ''The Iraqis have been able to recruit and fill to capacity,'' said Brig. Gen. Robin Swan, who oversees the training of the Iraq Army. 
 In Mosul, only a single battalion of American troops -- in concert with a large number of Iraqi soldiers and police officers -- helps provide security for a city of more than a million. Still, considerable challenges remain. The Iraqi Army has only about half the noncommissioned officers it needs. Another important weakness, said Maj. Gen. Benjamin R. Mixon, who recently completed his tour as the senior American commander in northern Iraq, is that Iraqi military training has been focused on developing the skills of individual soldiers, not on fighting as a unit.
 ''They don't have a collective training program right now,'' General Mixon said in an interview. ''They put a jundi out there and the way he learns to fight is by getting shot at,'' he added, using the Iraqi term for a soldier.
 Some experts also remain skeptical that a largely Shiite army and police force can ever reliably enforce the peace equitably if American forces rapidly draw down. ''The binding constraint is sectarian politics,'' Stephen Biddle, a military expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, said.
 American officers acknowledge the problems but assert that progress can be made if the United States does not rush the process.
 ''Don't do it too fast,'' said Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, who oversees the training of Iraq's security forces. ''Transfer those responsibilities that you can to the organizations that can handle them and withhold responsibility from organizations that can't.''
 A number of efforts are under way to improve the training and quality of Iraqi forces. A national network of training centers is being expanded to train Iraqi units near their home areas. To address the shortage of noncommissioned officers in the army, 10 percent of the most promising recruits are being promoted to corporals while efforts are being made to encourage former army officers to rejoin.
 A chronic shortage of officers also afflicts the Iraqi police, which is no small problem since only officers are authorized to make arrests. Two new police academies are to be established, and the normal three-year training program is being shortened for college graduates. The Americans are also trying to adjust the sectarian balance of the Iraqi police by pressing the Iraqi government to recruit more Sunnis, though such efforts have been frustrated in some areas like Diyala Province. 
 Teams of American advisers are working with the Iraqi Defense and Interior Ministries in an attempt to improve their ability to manage and sustain the force. 
 American combat brigades, however, are to play a key role in augmenting the training and encouraging Iraqi units in the field to take more responsibility. Advocates of the plan say that brigades are well suited for this mission.
 Many brigade commanders have done multiple tours in Iraq, giving them considerable experience in dealing with local leaders, Iraqi forces and the diverse spectrum of threats. The commanders have an array of abilities to draw on. In addition to directing infantry units, they can order air artillery strikes, arrange for medical evacuations and access a broad selection of intelligence. 
 Brigades oversee the small 11-to-15-member advisory teams that work with the Iraqi Army and the police. The State Department's provincial reconstruction teams, which advise the Iraqis on economic projects and ways to improve local governments, are also attached to combat brigades. 
 An American official said that each brigade commander would be allowed to decide how many soldiers to assign to expanded training and advising efforts, when American forces should carry out military operations and when they should stand back and let Iraqi forces take the lead. 
 The approach is already being tried in some areas like Falluja, where Marine squads have taken up positions in police stations while other combat forces have been removed from the city. 
 ''You enable brigade commanders and then decentralize authority to him to take account of conditions on the ground,'' the official said. ''He can set the dials on how much the U.S. is in the lead, how much you teach the Iraqis to do and how much you can simply back up the Iraqis.''
 In some areas, the commanders might allocate an entire battalion to augment training efforts. In others, one company in the battalion might focus on training while the remaining companies carry out combat operations with the Iraqis. 
 The type of training could vary. General Mixon, for example, said that a brigade might concentrate on collective training: teaching Iraq platoons and companies to fight effectively as units. The brigade commanders, officials say, are in the best position to evaluate the threats in their areas, the abilities of the Iraqi forces they work with and the local political situation. Previous efforts to shift responsibility to the Iraqis faltered in part because the efforts were influenced by American officials too removed from the battlefield, officials say. 
 ''We had too-centralized this process a couple of years ago when we were in the transition business,'' the senior official added. ''We got it wrong in too many local places like Diyala and segments of Baghdad.''
 This approach differs from proposals by some counterinsurgency experts, like Lt. Col. John Nagl, that the Army establish a permanent corps of highly trained advisers and use it as the principal means to train Iraqi and foreign forces elsewhere. 
 It is also radically different from that advocated by some foreign policy specialists, who have urged the United States to quickly withdraw combat brigades while leaving behind a limited number of trainers. Such a strategy was outlined by the Iraq Study Group, a panel led by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III and former Representative Lee H. Hamilton, and a variant of this approach has been embraced by Senator Barack Obama in his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
 The rancorous debate in Washington has centered on troop withdrawal schedules. But the American command's planning suggests less public but equally fundamental differences over the military structures that the generals say are needed to manage the transition toward Iraqi control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqi Army soldiers searched a marsh in Mosul for weapons during a joint United States-Iraq mission last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT NELSON/WORLD PICTURE NETWORK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007



500 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Texas Seeks to Break Prison Recidivism Cycle

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Corey Taylor, a convicted drug dealer, recently got out of prison and moved into his grandmother's house in Sunnyside, a south central Houston neighborhood of small, tidy yards.
 During his first days home, Mr. Taylor, 26, got a sharp reminder of the neighborhood's chronic problems.
''Out of 10 of my partners, only one is doing anything different,'' he said, referring to his former drug-dealing companions. ''I have some friends I haven't seen for 10 years because either I was locked up or they were locked up.''
 Last year, 32,585 prisoners were released on state parole in Texas, and many of them returned to neighborhoods where they live among thousands of other parolees and probationers.
 Sunnyside is one of 10 neighborhoods in Houston that together accounted for 15 percent of the city's population, yet received half of the 6,283 prisoners released in Houston in 2005, according to the Justice Mapping Center, a criminal justice research group. 
 The group, which is based in Brooklyn, has done work for the Texas Legislature that helped lead to a $217 million expansion of rehabilitation services.
 Neighborhoods like Sunnyside can be found in virtually every big city in the nation. Even as violent crime statistics trend downward, incarceration rates throughout the country remain at a historic high of 750 per 100,000 residents. Each year about 650,000 prisoners are released on parole, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. 
 Mapping studies in neighborhoods as distant as the Phoenix suburb of South Mountain and the Newhallville area of New Haven show incarceration rates far higher than the national rate. 
 The parolees are almost always coming back to areas where support systems, like schools and public assistance programs, receive less money and attention than incarceration does, the studies show. In an effort to break the cycle, Texas this fall began its expansion of services for former inmates, including job training classes, drug treatment programs and psychological counseling. 
 The approach, based in part on legislative presentations by the Justice Mapping Center, is a sharp departure from the state's longtime criminal justice focus on retribution.
 The shift is intended to save the state money by slowing the revolving door between state prisons and neighborhoods like Sunnyside. The parolees released last year cost the state $100 million over the course of their prison terms; the 85 who returned to Sunnyside, population 21,000, accounted for almost $8 million of that, according to data by the mapping group.
 ''It's not uncommon for children of criminal justice system clients to themselves go into the criminal justice system,'' said State Senator John H. Whitmire, a Houston Democrat and chairman of the Senate Criminal Justice Committee. 
 ''Certain lower socioeconomic areas produce clients for the criminal justice system in a way that is analogous to the way that the welfare system created a cycle of first- and second- and third-generation welfare recipients.''
 Despite declining crime and lower arrest rates, Texas's adult prison expenditures have grown to $2.8 billion a year, tripled since 1990. Decades of tough-on-crime legislation and low parole rates have quadrupled the state prison population since 1985. 
 The prisons are about 4,000 inmates beyond their legal capacity, according to prison officials.
 A variety of groups, including the Council of State Governments and the Open Society Institute, are investigating the economic cost of communities with high rates of prison admissions and releases and the effectiveness of incarceration policies.
 Eric Cadora, a founder of the Justice Mapping Center, said high incarceration rates hinder government efforts to turn around troubled neighborhoods by taking people out of the work force, compelling families to rely on government assistance and scaring away investment.
 The Fifth Ward, an east Houston neighborhood, has one of the city's highest concentrations of former prisoners. At least 125 state parolees resettled in the neighborhood in 2006, according to the mapping studies. Their prison terms cost Texas $9 million.
 Mark Wright, 31, stood outside a house in the Fifth Ward recently selling drugs just weeks after completing a prison term for drug possession. Altogether, Mr. Wright said he had served 10 years for four drug-related convictions and one parole violation. 
 ''I was bred into this life,'' said Mr. Wright, who said he still made his living selling drugs. ''It's survival of the fittest out here.''
 Mr. Wright said that ''damn near 99 percent'' of his friends had served prison terms, mostly for drug possession, including his younger brother, who is currently in prison. 
 ''Half these dudes dropped out of junior high,'' he said, pointing to several friends standing with him sipping from plastic foam cups of ''Purple Drank,'' a brain-battering draft of prescription-strength codeine cough syrup cut with soda. ''Some of them dropped out of elementary school. All they got is this hustle. They got no backup.'' 
 In east Houston, another of the city's troubled neighborhoods, Marilyn Gambrell, the founder of No More Victims Inc., a support group for students at M. B. Smiley High School with incarcerated parents, said that more than half of the 1,250 students there have relatives in prison or who have done time in the past. Ms. Gambrell is a former parole officer who supervised many of the parents.
 Each day, several dozen of the teenagers gather in a carpeted classroom with plush sofas and cushioned chairs to talk about what it is like to have a family member in jail or prison. 
 During a recent discussion, drugs, violence and poverty were running themes. One boy said he had accompanied his stepfather on drug runs, and most of the students said they themselves had already had run-ins with the police.
 Tangenea Miller, 20, is considered a graduate of the support group. She works as a corrections officer at a Houston lock-up. ''I see a lot of people there from my old neighborhood,'' Ms. Miller said. 
 The situations described in the high school sessions were front and center one recent day in the Houston neighborhood of Kashmere Gardens. Weeds curled out of broken windows and open doorways in abandoned homes. Mounds of trash sat in empty lots flooded with stagnant water.
 Young men, most of them unemployed, stood in front of shotgun houses sipping Purple Drank. Others dealt dope in front of strip-malls and on side streets in broad daylight. The Justice Mapping Center estimates that Texas taxpayers spent $10 million to incarcerate the 117 state prison inmates who were paroled to Kashmere Gardens last year.
 Al Jarreau Davis, 26, was released back to Kashmere Gardens five months ago after serving less than a year in state jail for drug possession. It was his second jail term. Mr. Davis and his older brother, Bay Davis, also a recently released drug offender, support themselves by selling marijuana and crack cocaine.
 A third Davis brother was shot to death a year ago during an argument after a traffic accident. 
 ''There ain't no jobs out here for someone like me,'' said Al Jarreau Davis. Both brothers said they fully expected to be arrested again, or worse. 
 ''I'm probably going to stay out on the street until somebody murders me,'' said Bay Davis, matter-of-factly.
 And new parolees keep coming. Every few weeks, several dozen inmates assemble in the chapel of the state prison in Huntsville on the eve of their release for a two-hour orientation program by Christian outreach workers. The prisoners are offered phone lists ofclinics, churches, shelters and drug treatment programs. Then they file out of the chapel and back to their cells for one more night of restless confinement.
 It is a shoestring program and most inmates do not participate, said the Rev. Emmett Solomon, a prison minister who leads the classes. ''Most of what they get to prepare them for their release, they get right here,'' Mr. Solomon said. ''But it's probably too little, too late.''
 Mr. Taylor, the Sunnyside drug dealer, was in a recent class. He left for the bus station the next morning, with about 40 other men, wearing tattered, unfashionable donated clothes and carrying their possessions in mesh bags.
 As Mr. Taylor got off the bus in Houston later in the afternoon, a passing stranger who called himself Ice welcomed him home.
 ''Hey man, I know how it is,'' he told Mr. Taylor. ''I just got out, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Wright, center, said he had four drug-related convictions and one parole violation. ''I was bred into this life,'' he said.
 Corey Taylor returned to Sunnyside in south central Houston after getting out of prison and said he found little changed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Houston, Texas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECIDIVISM RATES (90%); PAROLE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PRISONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); STATISTICS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TRENDS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); CRIME STATISTICS (73%); PROBATION (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (65%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (95%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (69%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009



501 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

 BODY:
A STORM'S LINGERING COST After 15 years, the visible damage of Hurricane Andrew has largely disappeared, but homeowners nationwide are still feeling the effect of the storm, one of the worst of the century, in their pocketbooks. [Page C1.]
 QUITTING AMERICAMany Japanese investors are moving away from American investments, altering global capital flows and helping to weaken the dollar. [C1.] 
 WANING ENTHUSIASM FOR WIND A gleaming new wind park in Sweden testifies to the remarkable rise of wind energy as a mainstream power source used in 26 nations, including the United States. But wind energy is coming under sharper scrutiny from energy experts who question its reliability as a source of power. [C1.]
 BOND INSURER GETS A LIFT Shareholders of the French bank Natixis will take over its bond insurance unit, CIFG Guaranty, in a $1.5 billion rescue to preserve its top credit rating. [C2.]
 TURNING THE TABLES ON RISK In the turmoil of asset-based securities, some of Wall Street's safest institutions have turned out not to be, while some perceived as risky are so far sailing through. What brought the party to an end was not giant loans to buyout clients but the subterranean world of mortgage-related debt. Insider. [C1.]
 PITCHING EUROSTAR Rail Europe, which sells tickets in the United States for Eurostar's high-speed train service between Paris and London, has a new advertising campaign that it hopes will excite Americans enough about European tourism that they can put aside any concerns about exchange rates. Advertising. [C3.]
 THREAT OF GENE-MODIFIED CORN European Union environmental officials have determined that two kinds of genetically modified corn could harm butterflies, affect food chains and disturb life in rivers and streams, and they have proposed a ban on the sale of the seeds. [C3.]
 $300 BILLION LOSS SEEN Losses in the distressed mortgage sector of the United States could reach $300 billion, only a portion of which has so far been accounted for by write-offs at major banks, according to a study released on Thursday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. [C3.]
 CHINA'S CURRENCY LEAKS A Chinese businesswoman has been arrested and accused of supervising currency transactions worth more than $500 million, spotlighting the extent of illegal currency flows out of China into Hong Kong. [C5.]
 ENI LINKS WITH GAZPROM Eni of Italy has agreed to form a 50-50 joint venture with the Russian gas export monopoly Gazprom to operate a new gas export pipeline to south Europe costing at least $14 billion. [C5.]
 STOCKS REBOUND IN EUROPE European stocks rebounded, led by drug makers and utilities, whose profits are less vulnerable to an economic slowdown. The Topix index in Japan extended its drop from a February peak to 21 percent, making Japan the first of the world's 10 biggest stock markets to enter a bear market this year. [C6.]
 COMPANIES WARY OF AUDITORS A conflict is growing between auditors and their corporate clients, amid pressure on both sides to do more to root out corporate wrongdoing and fraud. Companies are increasingly concerned that auditors could be required to turn over confidential records to outsiders, exposing corporations and executives to lawsuits from shareholders or whistle-blowers and unwanted scrutiny by regulators. [C4.]
 CHINESE CARS FOR MEXICO The Chinese automaker First Automobile Works Group will begin exporting cars to Mexico by year's end, looking to tap into the domestic market for inexpensive cars. [C2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); HURRICANES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); WIND POWER PLANTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); INSURANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RIVERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); ARRESTS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TRAINS (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (58%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%); NATIXIS SA (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); KN (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009



502 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Jump the Shark

BYLINE: By L. JON WERTHEIM. 
L. Jon Wertheim, a senior writer at Sports Illustrated, is the author of ''Running the Table: The Legend of Kid Delicious, the Last American Pool Hustler.''

 BODY:
WHILE there are, admittedly, figures more deserving of sympathy than unemployed pool players, the demise of the hustler is an occasion to be mourned. As recently as 10 years ago, it was possible for a pool player to earn a living hustling, provided he was armed with the requisite chops and disposition. Plenty of ''roadmen'' made plenty of money with scores at Chelsea Billiards in Manhattan or Mikey's 24/7 in Oklahoma City or the Sports Palace in Columbia, S.C. Odds were good that there was at least one unsuspecting local in the joint with an inflated impression of his talent for pocketing balls, and thus a willingness to throw down ''big timber'' against the out-of-towner.
 Today, pool hustlers have joined American heavyweight boxing champs, complete-game pitchers, hockey goons and drug-free cyclists as relics in sports. Endearing bit players in the cast of American culture, hustlers have been written out of future episodes. ''It used to be that you had to turn down action; then you had to look hard for action; and now there's no action,'' Bucky Bell, a Cincinnati-based pool wizard, lamented to me. ''A lot of guys who play real good pool are having to look for real jobs.'' 
 The pool hustler wasn't murdered by any single suspect, but the last man holding the knife was Kevin Trudeau, the bestselling author of the ''Natural Cures'' series who once served a prison term for felony larceny. Mr. Trudeau out-hustled the hustlers -- and killed off a national archetype in the process.
 But even before Mr. Trudeau, hustling was on its deathbed. The Internet didn't help. Time was, a player would score big in, say, Cheyenne, Wyo., and by the time word got out over the pool transom, the hustler was already in Lexington, Ky., or Laredo, Tex. But then came the popular online forum AZBilliards.com. Suddenly a player would score big and his exploits would be publicized by sunrise. 
 The poker boom hurt too, siphoning the species who once hustled pool -- young, competitive, predominantly white men with an incurable gambling jones -- with guaranteed round-the-clock action and a reduced threat of getting jacked in the parking lot. Even $3-a-gallon gas prices exacted a price: why drive to Olathe, Kan., for a chance at winning $500 when it might cost $250 just to get there?
 Then came the International Pool Tour, Mr. Trudeau's final squirt of embalming fluid. When he founded the professional pool tour in 2005, Mr. Trudeau vowed to turn eight-ball into a viable, big-league sport. Winners would take home $500,000 prizes; first-round losers were guaranteed $5,000. 
 For pool players, accustomed to driving miles out of their way just to avoid paying bridge tolls, this was akin to raising the minimum wage by a factor of 10. Hustlers who had been traveling incognito for years came out of the woodwork to try to qualify for the tour. Joining meant that their cover would be blown, but the money was too good to pass up.
 The first three events were smashing successes. But in keeping with the circadian rhythms of pool, the boom times didn't last. Last year, after a tournament in Reno, Nev., players were informed of an inconvenient detail: the tour couldn't pay the prize money. Mr. Trudeau, once accessible and upbeat, was nowhere to be found. 
 The tour eventually notified players that the debts would be paid in small, periodic installments. But to date the players have yet to be paid all of the money they are owed. There hasn't been another International Pool Tour event since.
 Some players were so demoralized by Mr. Trudeau's hustle that they quit the sport entirely. And the rest had become known quantities to avid amateur players. Unmasked by television and the Internet, these once-stealthy hustlers could no longer lure anyone into believing they were just passing through town, innocently looking to relax at the local poolroom. 
 The death of hustling marks the end of a uniquely American pursuit. What's a more vivid extension of the frontier mentality than a man, carrying only a wooden stick, slinking into town and making a buck? What's a better example of self-sufficiency than caroming around the country and using superior skill, craft and wit to fleece the other guy? Who embodies Melville's ''Confidence Man'' better than the suave and mysterious pool hustler? 
 Pool hustlers are outlaws, but they are -- or were -- the kind of outlaws we root for, ''honorable swindlers'' who usually dripped with charisma and eccentricity. ''You don't make much money but you do get paid in stories,'' Kid Delicious, the New Jersey hustler, told me. ''And you don't got to worry about the taxman getting his hand on them.''
 And hustling doesn't merely involve the players at the table. There was a rogue's gallery of ''stakehorses'' (financial backers), ''sweaters on the rail'' (side bettors) and ''nits'' (kibitzers). As the gambling spigot has been turned off, the local poolroom -- once a civic institution -- has almost vanished. The extinction of the pool hustler has bleached some color from the cultural landscape and dotted small-town America with yet another economic casualty.
 Look hard and there's still action out there. Earlier this year, two players won a high-stakes six-player ''ring game'' in Mobile, Ala. In September in Sioux Falls, S.D., a hearing-impaired player, Shane Van Boening, beat Corey Deuel, a veteran shark from Ohio, in a $10,000 winner-take-all race to 100 games. The annual Derby City Classic in Louisville, Ky., still features late-night games with stakes that can exceed six figures. 
 ''But that's just gambling,'' Mr. Bell says wistfully. ''Real hustling -- driving to a pool room in another state, walking in, setting the trap, busting the local guy and then heading to a new town -- is different. That's what ain't there any more.'' 

GRAPHIC: ARTWORK (ARTWORK BY OWEN SMITH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOL & BILLIARDS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BOXING (73%); MEN (72%); WRITERS (72%); MURDER (69%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); FELONIES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (77%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (77%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); WYOMING, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); KANSAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



503 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Company That Recalled Hamburger Meat Declares Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The Topps Meat Company of Elizabeth, N.J., which nearly two months ago recalled 21.7 million pounds of hamburger meat, has declared bankruptcy, according to papers filed on Wednesday in federal bankruptcy court in Newark. 
 In the filing, Topps said the ''severe economic impact of the recall'' forced it to cease operations.
 Topps shut its doors and laid off most of its employees on Oct. 5, a week after issuing one of the largest beef recalls ever. Federal and state health officials found at least three types of the O157:H7 strain of E. coli bacteria in the plant. At least 40 people in eight states were sickened by the contamination, which raised questions about the effectiveness of inspections by the federal Agriculture Department. The agency was also scrutinized for a delay of several weeks in requesting the recall after tests showed that meat sold by Topps was linked to illness from E. coli.
 Federal investigators said the company failed to require adequate testing of raw beef it had bought from domestic suppliers, and it sometimes mixed tested and untested meat in its grinding machines.
 The probable source of the E. coli contamination was Rancher's Beef Ltd., a supplier of Topps based in Alberta, Canada, according to the Agriculture Department. 
 The Topps case is the most serious of 16 recalls this year involving E. coli contamination of beef.
 In the bankruptcy filing, the company said that its property in Elizabeth and elsewhere ''poses or is alleged to pose a threat of imminent and identifiable harm to the public health or safety.''
 The company listed assets of up to $100 million and liabilities of up to the same amount. Nearly 5,400 people were listed as creditors along with companies, including Tyson Foods.
 Strategic Investments and Holding, the investment firm in Buffalo that bought Topps in 2003, was also listed as a creditor, as were several high-level managers at Topps, including Anthony D'Urso, a vice president.
 The filing did not specify how much money each creditor was owed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); E COLI (92%); FOOD RECALLS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); BACTERIA (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); MEATS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (53%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ALBERTA, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



504 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Soybean Prices Near 1973 Highs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Soybean prices surged to the highest level in more than 30 years yesterday because of strong demand from China and the dollar's decline to a record low against the euro. 
 Soybeans rose to the highest price since 1973, when Russia began an import program that created a new source of demand for soybeans from the United States. 
 Analysts say the major demand now comes from China, where the soybean harvest this year was smaller than expected. Demand there has also grown rapidly along with economic development.
 ''The real story is China, which has a smaller bean crop than was previously thought and has recently been accumulating,'' said John Roach, president of Roach Ag Marketing. ''They were reluctant at first, then rushed the market over the past couple of weeks.''
 Soybeans for January delivery rose 16.25 cents, to $11.0025 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade, after earlier spiking to $11.03. In July 1973, a bushel fetched $11.87. Soybeans peaked at $12.90 a bushel in June 1973.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOYBEAN MARKETS (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); US DOLLAR (88%); EURO (72%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



505 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: News and Talk Today

 BODY:
SATURDAY EARLY SHOW 7 A.M. (2) High-tech fixes for flawed snapshots; raising generous children; Patricia Williams prepares a meal from Thanksgiving leftovers; Neil Sedaka performs. (N) (CC) 
 TODAY 7 A.M. (4) Frankie Valli; holiday tools; holiday shopping anxiety. (N) (CC)
 WASHINGTON JOURNAL 7 A.M. (C-SPAN)
 GOOD MORNING AMERICA 8 A.M. (7) (N) (CC)
 TONY BROWN'S JOURNAL 11 A.M. (13) ''Race movies'' remain as a testament to black pioneers in the film industry. (CC)
 TO THE CONTRARY 11:30 A.M. (13) Consumers fear a weakening economy; whether babies of illegal immigrant mothers should be placed in foster care when the women are deported; hunger in America. (N) (CC)
 THE OPEN MIND NOON (13) Paul Krugman of The New York Times discusses his book ''The Conscience of a Liberal.'' (CC)
 TIM RUSSERT NOON AND 6 P.M. (MSNBC)
 CNN: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT 8 P.M. AND 11 P.M. (CNN) The life and career of James Brown.
 AMERICAN PERSPECTIVES 8 P.M. AND 11 P.M. (C-SPAN)Purdue University honors Neil Armstrong; Michael Milken and Alan Page discuss philanthropy.
 TALKSHOW WITH SPIKE FERESTEN MIDNIGHT (5) Nick Bakay. (N) (CC)
 TOMORROW MORNING
 CBS NEWS SUNDAY MORNING 9 A.M. (2) Stories of hope and human kindness; the origins and history of plaid; movie reviews; Steve Martin talks about his autobiography; American ruins; consumer complaints. (N) (CC)
 TODAY 9 A.M. (4) Men, women and business; washers and dryers; Michael Lomonaco. (N) (CC)
 THE OPEN MIND 9:30 A.M. (CUNY) John Sexton, president of New York University, discusses the globalization of higher education. (CC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); FOSTER CARE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (56%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); MICHAEL MILKEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



506 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Asking Hard Questions About Iraq

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Increased Role Sought for G.I.'s in Iraq Training'' (front page, Nov. 23):
 After four long, costly and deadly years, why do American troops still need to be in Iraq, in harm's way, to train more Iraqi troops? After four long years, why are still more American troops and still more American tax dollars still needed to train more Iraqi troops? Why haven't we, at the very least, trained enough Iraqi troops to train other Iraqi troops? 
 After four long years, why are American tax dollars still needed to equip and supply Iraqi forces? Why, after four long years, aren't Iraqi oil revenues and Iraqi treasury funds paying for Iraqi equipment and Iraqi supplies? 
 Why have America's leaders allowed so many American lives, limbs and dollars to be continuously sacrificed for the same endless mission? Why have America's veterans organizations so willingly supported such endless stupidity? What a sham! What a shame!
 Thomas Austin
 Bratenahl, Ohio, Nov. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Does anyone but me find it odd that the Bush administration came into office in 2001 planning an unprovoked war in Iraq; spent the next two years building a fraudulent case for launching that war; spent the next four years prolonging that war by making every mistake it could in Iraq while the war cost escalated, billions disappeared and its private contractor supporters grew filthy rich; and only now, when its five-year privatization of the war is suddenly being reined in, has magically developed its very first actual Iraq strategy, which it will finally reveal to us in March, or just in time to influence the November 2008 election? 
 Since most G.O.P. presidential candidates endorse all this, one would have to note that today's Republicans lend new meaning to the phrase ''war profiteering.'' Judith Balaban Quine
 Beverly Hills, Calif., Nov. 23, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 The information provided in ''Foreign Fighters in Iraq Are Tied to Allies of U.S.'' (front page, Nov. 22) strengthens and adds credibility to the argument that the Bush administration's strategy in Iraq is a failed one. A significant percentage of the insurgent fighters battling American and Iraqi forces has now been identified as Saudi or Libyan. 
 For at least three years or since the war bogged down and became a quagmire, President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and their minions have repeatedly insisted that we are in Iraq to defeat homegrown terrorism. It has now been clearly documented that by invading Iraq and occupying the country, the actions taken by the United States have attracted foreign fighters to join the insurgency in an effort to drive the Americans out of Iraq. 
 The current stronghold of terrorism in Iraq has developed as a direct result of the Bush administration's actions and decisions, not in spite of them as Mr. Bush would have us believe. 
 The incredible irony here is that two countries that the president and the vice president have lauded as staunch allies in the global war against terrorism have been significant sources of the people who are killing and wounding American troops on a daily basis. 
 The only strategic course of action that makes political and military sense is to plan and carry out a phased withdrawal of American forces from a country that has become a cauldron of terrorist and insurgent activity and where there is no victory at the end of the road. Alan Safron
 Woodcliff Lake, N.J., Nov. 22, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Baghdad Starts to Exhale as Security Improves'' (front page, Nov. 20):
 Now that it appears that progress is being made in Iraq, let's stanch the notion that Democrats and progressives are going to be unhappy and disappointed. Nothing could be further from the truth from what will amount to a cheap shot that will go out through the conservative echo chamber.
 Liberals more than anyone have been sickened by the continuing loss of life and disruption in the lives of everyday Iraqis along with our soldiers and their families, not to mention the damage being done to our economy through this costly and endless occupation. If this success has been brought about by the surge, then the question is, Why wasn't it done sooner? Keith Schmitz
 Shorewood, Wis., Nov. 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); VETERANS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); TERRORISM (64%); PRIVATIZATION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



507 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Economy May Defy Past And Disregard Housing

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
E-mail: norris@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve Board forecast this week that there will be no recession in the United States in the foreseeable future. It says the gross domestic product will grow by as little as 1.6 percent in 2008, but is confident that growth will accelerate after that. 
 That forecast -- the first formally issued by the Fed in line with its effort to be more transparent -- was released the same day that the Census Bureau reported a continued slowing of housing starts. The number of new homes being built is now little more than half the level of two years ago.
 If the Fed is right, and the economy does stay out of recession, with the unemployment rate barely rising at all, then it will be the first time ever that a housing slowdown this severe has not coincided with a recession. In fact, there has never been a slowdown of anything like this magnitude until after a recession was under way.
 The minutes of the October meeting of the Fed's open market committee, which were released along with the forecast, conceded that there was a risk of a downturn. ''Participants were concerned about the possibility for adverse feedbacks in which economic weakness could lead to further tightening in credit conditions, which could in turn slow the economy further,'' the minutes reported. 
 The Fed said there was also a risk from ''a more severe contraction in the housing sector and a substantial decline in house prices.''
 But Fed officials also concluded that ''in recent decades, the U.S. economy had proved quite resilient to episodes of financial distress, suggesting that the adverse effects of financial developments on economic activity outside of the housing sector could prove to be more modest than anticipated.''
 As the accompanying charts show, the decline in housing starts has been rapid and sudden, particularly for single-family homes. Such violent swings were more common decades ago, when increases in short-term interest rates could shut off deposits for savings and loan institutions. At the time, the savings and loans were limited by law from raising deposit rates too far. That made mortgages hard to get until rates came down.
 Falling home prices and tougher lending standards may be having a similar effect now.
 The second chart shows two-year changes in home starts, again measured by three-month moving averages to smooth out weather-related distortions. The rate of new-home starts from August through October -- as the mortgage crisis took hold -- was down 47 percent from the same months of 2005.
 Since the early 1960s, when the data became available, there have only been three previous cycles when starts fell by at least a third over two years. By the first month with such a decline in each of those cycles -- January 1974, March 1980 and January 1991 -- a recession was under way.
 There have been recessions without such a large impact on housing, most notably the 2001 downturn. But the housing market has never done this poorly without a recession starting. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Single-family home starts and two year rate of change in single-family home starts 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WEATHER (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CENSUS (71%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (67%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



508 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Weathering Credit Storm From U.S.

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JULIA WERDIGIER; Mark Landler reported from Frankfurt and Julia Werdigier from London; Nicola Clark contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
The American mortgage crisis continues to infect Europe's financial system in new and unexpected places.
 Jolting announcements this week from CIFG Holdings, a Paris-based bond-insurance company, and Swiss Re, the Zurich-based reinsurance giant, are stoking fears that Europe will suffer more of the credit ills that have plagued major banks in the United States.
 ''It has the potential, if it lasts, to influence other segments of the markets,'' Axel A. Weber, the president of the Bundesbank, the German central bank, said Friday at a banking conference in Frankfurt. 
 On Thursday, two French banks, Groupe Banque Populaire and Groupe Caisse d'Epargne, paid $1.5 billion to take ownership of CIFG from an investment bank, Natixis. The move was intended to preserve CIFG's AAA credit rating, which is considered vital to its ability to do business. CIFG was at risk because ratings agencies questioned whether it could guarantee deteriorating mortgage loans.
 For now, the intervention by the French banks has soothed the market and shored up CIFG's creditworthiness. In a statement Friday, Moody's Investor Service said it was unlikely to reduce CIFG's rating, a day after Fitch Ratings gave a similar assurance.
 ''We are still in the process of assessing the effects of the changes in the U.S. mortgage market, but the fact that CIFG injected capital is a positive,'' said Jack Dorer, managing director of Moody's Financial Guarantors team in New York. Mr. Weber of the Bundesbank said he was troubled that bond insurers, also known as monolines, were now under pressure. In such a climate, he said, markets were not likely to settle down until next year, when the banks provide a full accounting of their write-downs in their annual financial statements.
 Part of the problem is that Europe keeps being hit in unexpected places. Only one other European bank, Dexia of Belgium, even owns a major bond insurer. The biggest names in the business -- MBIA, the Ambac Financial Group and FGIC -- are based in and around New York.
 Until this week, Europe's involvement in bond insurance was of interest only to insiders. In that sense, the CIFG bailout recalls the rescue in the summer of two little-known German banks, IKB Deutsche Industriebank and Sachsen LB, which had suffered heavy mortgage-related losses.
 Julian Chillingworth, a fund manager at Rathbone in London, said that because Europe's mortgage-related exposure was not as broad as that in the United States, ''It's not so obvious where you might find the risk.''
 Analysts continue to believe that in Europe, the less well-known or sophisticated institutions are most at risk of exposure to troubled assets. While big names like UBS of Switzerland and Deutsche Bank have reported multibillion-dollar write-downs, the damage -- and the resulting management upheaval -- was less severe than that at Citigroup or Merrill Lynch.
 But Europeans were rattled this week by news that Swiss Re had written down $1.07 billion in the value of derivatives backed by mortgage securities. When it reported its results two weeks earlier, the company reassured investors that its exposure to problems in the American subprime market was limited and it suggested it had emerged from the credit crisis reasonably unscathed.
 ''Swiss Re, coming out after its results to say it had found more problems, really hurt credibility,'' said John Raymond, an analyst at CreditSights, a research firm in London. ''People thought the third quarter would clear up the mess. That's why the credit markets are responding so horribly.''
 While shares of UBS rose after its disclosure of $3.4 billion in write-downs in early October, reflecting relief that the bank was getting a grip on its problems, Swiss Re's stock was hammered by its announcement.
 Now, analysts are expecting more write-downs from banks to reflect the further decline in the value of mortgage-backed securities since they closed their books at the end of October. ''Maybe we will double what we have seen until now,'' said Keith Bowman, an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown in London. ''The difficult bit is, how much, and has the market priced it in already?''
 For Dexia and Natixis, the bond insurance business was attractive for much of the same reasons that European banks invested in exotic asset-backed securities: the promise of new markets with high returns.
 A spokeswoman for Natixis, Corinne Lavaud, said the banks' French owners created CIFG in 2001 ''to diversify its offerings to investors and acquire expertise in new fields of finance.''
 Natixis is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Sunday, and analysts at KBW in London expect it to report a write-down of 591 million euros ($871 million), largely because of CIFG. As of Oct. 5, the insurer said it had direct exposure to $1.9 billion of residential mortgages.
 When Dexia bought its insurer, Financial Security Assurance Holdings, for $2.6 billion in 2000, it said, ''In one step, we have dramatically enhanced our position in the U.S. municipal finance market.'' Last week, Dexia reported a 28 percent decline in its third-quarter profit because of losses at Financial Security Assurance.
 At the conference Friday in Frankfurt, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, Josef Ackermann, lamented the market's lack of confidence, which he said generated daily rumors about the next bank or fund in trouble.
 Noting that the crisis originated in the United States, Mr. Ackermann said the organizers had invited a representative of the Federal Reserve to appear on a panel with Mr. Weber of the Bundesbank and Callum McCarthy, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, Britain's banking supervisor.
 Because of Thanksgiving, he said, nobody volunteered to travel to Frankfurt. ''I think it is important to spend time with family,'' Mr. Ackermann said, to titters from the audience of European bankers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AxelWeber of Bundesbank (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN ZAKLIN /EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Josef Ackermann, left, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, spoke yesterday with Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, during a banking conference in Frankfurt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK MAY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN MORTGAGE ACCEPTANCE CO (92%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (91%); LA CAISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSES D'EPARGNE (91%); IKB DEUTSCHE INDUSTRIEBANK AG (84%); BANQUE FEDERALE DES BANQUES POPULAIRES SA (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); NATIXIS SA (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); DEXIA SA (55%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); KN (PAR) (58%); DEXB (BRU) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: JOSEF ACKERMANN (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); ZURICH (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



509 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Bargains Draw Crowds, but the Thrill Is Gone

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Brenda Goodman in Nashville, Eric Ferkenhoff in Chicago, Christopher Maag in Columbus, Ohio, and Katie Zezima in Boston contributed reporting.

 BODY:
American consumers flooded stores yesterday on the traditional first day of the holiday shopping season, but the irrational exuberance of the Black Fridays of the last five years has been replaced by pragmatic restraint.
 With an uncertain economy, a slowdown in the housing market and high gas prices hanging over their heads, consumers flocked to discount chains like Wal-Mart, Target and Best Buy, brandishing bargain-filled fliers. 
 In a reversal from years past, they largely bypassed more expensive retailers, including such powerhouses as Nordstrom, Coach and Abercrombie & Fitch, according to shoppers and merchants interviewed around the country. 
 This shift has prompted industry analysts to christen this the ''trade down'' holiday season. 
 In Columbus, Ohio, Theresa Johnston, a 47-year-old social worker, was shopping at the Big Lots discount chain -- because she had to, not because she wanted to. 
 ''It's a little embarrassing, actually. I don't like to be seen here,'' she said, planning to buy a set of 42 knives for $35. 
 Like thousands of Americans, Ms. Johnston has an adjustable-rate mortgage, and her rising payments have stolen from her holiday spending budget. ''Before this, I shopped mostly at Macy's and some at J. C. Penney, so shopping at Big Lots is, like, two big steps down for me,'' she said. ''This is going to be a hard Christmas.'' 
 The nation's retailers are making the same prediction, expecting this to be the weakest holiday shopping season in five years. 
 In more certain economic times, Black Friday -- so called because stores traditionally become profitable on that day -- was a full-throated celebration of capitalism, generating more than $19 billion in sales in 2006, or nearly 5 percent of all holiday spending. 
 This year, stores managed to draw huge crowds again, but the mood was more desperation than celebration. 
 Stores left nothing to chance, opening their doors before dawn and cutting prices deeply enough to guarantee throngs of bargain hunters.
 Two major chains, J. C. Penney and Kohl's, pushed their openings up an hour, to 4 a.m., and dangled half-off sales and $10 coupons. Toys ''R'' Us nearly quadrupled the number of door-buster discounts it offers, to 101. 
 And Wal-Mart extended its Black Friday specials into Saturday, calling it a ''48-hour sale.'' (In a publicity stunt, the company bragged that it had even petitioned the Royal Observatory in London to create a 48-hour Friday.)
 Rather than buying on impulse, consumers drew elaborate shopping plans to track down steep discounts -- and stuck to them.
 ''I am not buying as much, and I am buying on sale,'' said Pam Collins, 54, as she browsed the shoe department at Nordstrom at the Natick Collection, a mall west of Boston.
 Ms. Collins said she would buy her grandchildren savings bonds this year rather than big gifts. ''The economy has me somewhat worried,'' she said.
 A final tally from yesterday's sales will not be available until tomorrow, at the very earliest. MasterCard Spending Pulse, a division of the credit card company, predicted sales this Black Friday would rise up to 5 percent, to about $20 billion, from $19.1 billion in 2006. 
 That growth, however, comes with caveats. Shoppers might have spent more this year than last, but they bought deeply discounted items that generate little profit. And their spending might trail off in the coming month, particularly as deals become harder to find.
 In interviews, retail executives, who were constantly checking sales figures on BlackBerrys and laptops yesterday, said the numbers suggested that the holiday season was off to a strong, if highly discounted, start.
 ''The lines outside our stores are bigger than last year, for sure,'' said the chief executive of Toys ''R'' Us, Gerald L. Storch. ''Consumers have been holding back and waiting until today. There is so much uncertainty out there.''
 In Times Square, Donna Lhopitault stood in line at a Toys ''R'' Us for four hours to secure the Nintendo Wii video game system that her children covet. She paid $250 -- about half the price she had seen on various Web sites. 
 Ms. Lhopitault, a 38-year-old financial adviser from Smithtown, N.Y., said she used to splurge at high-end stores like F. A. O. Schwarz before the prices of gas and home heating oil surged.
 ''This year, I am sticking with Best Buy, Toys ''R'' Us and Target,'' she said. ''That's where the deals are.'' 
 Bill Dreher, a retail analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, said the phenomenon of shoppers ''trading down'' to lower-price chains was affecting every level of retailing, from Target to Nordstrom.
 ''People are cheaping out and sticking with the essentials,'' he said. 
 John D. Morris, a senior retail analyst at Wachovia Securities, described the scene at malls around the country as ''the quest for value'' (rather than for a must-have fashion, because there was none).
 The merchandise, he said, ''is blah-humbug.''
 That did not bode well for midpriced department stores and full-priced clothing stores in the mall, where the number of shoppers has fallen for much of the year. 
 Yesterday, an employee at the Abercrombie & Fitch in Waterford, Conn., called the sparse crowds ''scary.'' A clerk at the Macy's in the Westfield Old Orchard shopping center outside Chicago described the number of shoppers as no greater than a normal weekend morning. 
 Terry J. Lundgren, chief executive of Macy's, conceded that business at the malls, where most of his stores are, was ''challenging.'' So the chain dangled a $10-off coupon and steep discounts on products like digital frames, one of the season's best sellers, and expensive food processors. 
 ''We knew that this year we had to be aggressive to get consumers in the door,'' Mr. Lundgren said.
 To be sure, the highest end of American retailing -- stores like Neiman Marcus and Bloomingdale's -- remains healthy, if not prosperous. At Saks Fifth Avenue's flagship store in Manhattan yesterday, fur-donning customers swarmed around their version of door-buster deals: handbags from Marc Jacobs for $1,400 and from Zac Posen for $500. 
 But the focus on bargains was the biggest boon to chains associated with rock-bottom prices. 
 Technology buffs began lining up outside CompUSA stores at 5 p.m. Thursday to secure cut-rate hard drives, G.P.S. navigation systems and flat-screen televisions.
 At the store at Fifth Avenue and 37th Street in Manhattan, employees handed out individual pumpkin pies, served on red paper plates, to compensate for missed Thanksgiving desserts. 
 As the clock struck 9 p.m., the doors flung open and hundreds of shoppers dashed inside, ransacking displays and overwhelming the staff. Fifteen minutes later, the employees began delivering the bad news: most of the best deals had sold out.
 ''No more G.P.S., sorry,'' said one manager. ''Those laptops are gone,'' yelled another.
 Exasperated consumers left the store in anger. ''They are toying with the public,'' said Syed Sha, 52, who drove to the store two hours before it opened to buy a Sony laptop -- regularly $800, on sale for $549 -- for his college-age son.
 '' I called ahead, and they told me they had at least 14 in the store,'' he said. ''How could they sell out?''
 At a Wal-Mart outside Nashville, the doors opened at 5 a.m. yesterday, with customers surrounding a wooden pallet piled high with $50 digital picture frames at the front of the store. 
 Worried that the frames would sell out, Cindy Chavez, 36, braced herself, yelped and tossed her body on top of the pile, much to her fellow shoppers' horror. She emerged from the scrum with six frames. 
 ''I just didn't think I could reach down and bend over and get it,'' Ms. Chavez explained.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Holiday shoppers stocked up early yesterday morning at the Toys ''R'' Us in Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Kimmy Simon, left, 14, and Tate Madde, also 14, try to keep warm in a blanket waiting for a Best Buy to open in Cincinnati. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A crowded square at the Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Central valley, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Shoppers at the Toys ''R'' Us in Times Square. Consumers flocked to discount chains yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); CHRISTMAS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



510 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Citing Weak Dollar, Airbus Chief Talks of More Cost Cuts

BYLINE: By REUTERES

DATELINE: BREMEN, Germany, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Airbus faces a ''serious dollar problem'' that is forcing it to consider cutting costs more deeply, its chief executive, Thomas O. Enders, said Friday.
 Airbus, which sells planes in dollars but uses billion of euros worth of equipment, is being squeezed by the dollar's recent slide. 
 ''We have a serious dollar problem,'' Mr. Enders told reporters in this western German city. ''It should be a surprise to nobody'' that a dollar valued at about $1.50 against the euro ''causes big problems for our business model.''
 Airbus's Power8 reorganization plan, which calls for shedding some 10,000 jobs and selling some plants, was based on a euro-dollar rate of $1.30 to $1.35, Mr. Enders said.
 ''Of course we must think about making adjustments. We're doing that,'' he said.
 A day earlier, Mr. Enders called the dollar's rapid decline ''life threatening'' for Airbus.
 His comments follow word this week from Airbus's parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS, that it would decide on sales of manufacturing plants in Germany, France and Britain by year's end. Those potential sales have caused concern among unions and governments about job security.
 Airbus announced at this month's Dubai air show that it would post record high orders for new planes in 2007, but Mr. Enders was quick to underscore the need to deliver those aircraft on time and on budget as Airbus rebounds from the costly delay of its A380 superjumbo.
 The dollar slumped to a record low against the euro on Friday amid growing expectations that the United States Federal Reserve would cut interest rates again next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (89%); EURO (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (88%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (92%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (92%); EAD (MCE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



511 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; ; THE CAUCUS BLOG; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Takes On Student Loan Industry

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton had some tough words Saturday afternoon for the college student loan industry, saying banks and other lenders had ''ripped off'' students with high interest rates and repayment plans that were onerous on recent graduates and their families. ''I want to get rid of the student loan companies,'' Mrs. Clinton said at an event in Sioux City, as she laid out her college affordability plan in response to a parent's concern about high tuition prices. ''I kept working and I got a little scholarship, and I borrowed money from the government at 2% interest.'' ''I'm asking myself, why are we making it so expensive and costly for families today?'' she continued. 
''I also want to eliminate the complicated form that families have to fill out. I don't know how many of you have had to fill out those forms, it takes dozens and dozens of pages.'' Mrs. Clinton's husband, former President Bill Clinton, battled the student loan industry in the 1990s as he championed the Federal Direct Loan Program, which eliminated for-profit lenders as the middlemen for students in that program. And an ally of Mrs. Clinton's, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, has been waging legal fights against several lenders, accusing them of unscrupulous tactics to bilk students. Mrs. Clinton also supports the direct loan program, and she has also called for a ''student borrower's bill of rights.'' According to her campaign website, this proposal would ''make it easier for students to repay loans and give them a basic set of enforceable rights. ''It would give student borrowers the right to fair monthly payments that do not exceed a percentage of their incomes, as well as access to fair interest rates and fees. The bill would also give students the right to shop in a free marketplace for their lender and to borrow without exploitation. Finally, the bill will give students access to better information about their loans to provide students with better options during repayment.'' Mrs. Clinton's campaign event in Sioux City was chiefly devoted to fighting autism; she pledged to spend $700 million a year to expand research on the causes of autism and monitor its impact nationwide, and to create a task force to investigate treatments and services for those with autism. Her remarks about getting ''rid'' of student loan companies came as part of a length answer during the Q&A portion of the event with the audience, and was not part of a pre-planned attack on the industry, aides said. Mrs. Clinton has been critical of student lenders before, casting herself as an ally of middle-class families struggling with the rising cost of attending college. But taking on for-profit lenders, if she choose to, would come with risks: It is a multi-billion-dollar industry with powerful allies in Congress, many of them Republicans, thanks in part of campaign contributions over the years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); AUTISM (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DIRECT (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



512 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: In Plans for Railyards, a Mix of Towers and Parks

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The West Side railyards are the kind of urban development project that makes builders dance in the streets. A footprint bigger than Rockefeller Center's and the potential for more commercial and residential space than ground zero: what more could an urban visionary want? 
 So the five proposals recently unveiled by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to develop the 26-acre Manhattan railyards are not just a disappointment for their lack of imagination, they are also a grim referendum on the state of large-scale planning in New York City. 
 With the possible exception of a design for the Extell Development Company, the proposals embody the kind of tired, generic planning formulas that appear wherever big development money is at stake. When thoughtful architecture surfaces at all, it is mostly a superficial gloss of culture, rather than a sincere effort to come to terms with the complex social and economic changes the city has been undergoing for the last decade or so. 
 Located on six square blocks between 30th and 33rd Streets and 10th Avenue and the West Side Highway, the yards are one of the few remaining testaments to New York's industrial past. Dozens of tracks leading in and out of Pennsylvania Station carve through the site. A string of parking lots and old industrial buildings flanks the tracks to the south; the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center is a block to the north. To build, developers first will have to create a platform over the tracks, at an estimated cost of $1.5 billion; construction of the platform and towers has to take place without interrupting train service.
 City officials and the transportation authority, which owns the railyards, have entertained various proposals for the site in recent years, including an ill-conceived stadium for the Jets. The current guidelines would allow up to 13 million square feet of commercial, retail and residential space; a building to house a cultural group yet to be named; and a public park.
 All five of the development teams chose to arrange the bulk of the towers at the northern and southern edges of the site, to minimize disruption of the tracks below, and concentrated the majority of the commercial towers to the east, and the residential towers to the west, where they would have views of the Hudson River.
 But none of the teams have fully explored the potentially rich relationship between the railyards and the development above them, an approach that could have added substance to the plans. Nor did any find a successful way to come to terms with the project's gargantuan scale.
 The proposal by the Related Companies would transform the site into a virtual theme park for Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, the developer's main tenant. The design, by a team of architects that includes Kohn Pedersen Fox, Arquitectonica and Robert A. M. Stern, would be anchored at its eastern end by a 74-story tower. Three slightly smaller towers would flank it, creating an imposing barrier between the public park and the rest of the city to the east.
 The plan also includes a vast retail mall and plaza between 10th and 11th Avenues, which could be used by News Corporation for advertising, video projections and outdoor film and concert events -- a concept that would essentially transform what is being hailed as a public space into a platform for corporate self-promotion. A proposal by FXFowle and Pelli Clarke Pelli for the Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust is slightly less disturbing. Following a similar plan, it would be anchored by a new tower for Conde Nast Publications to the north, and a row of residential towers extending to the west. Sinuous, elevated pedestrian walkways would wind their way through the site just above the proposed public park. The walkways are meant to evoke a contemporary version of the High Line, the raised tracks being converted into a public garden just to the south. But their real precedents are the deadening elevated streets found in late Modernist housing complexes. 
 By comparison, the proposal by Tishman Speyer Properties, designed by Helmut Jahn, at least seems more honest. The site is anchored by four huge towers that taper slightly as they rise, exaggerating their sense of weight and recalling more primitive, authoritarian forms: you might call it architecture of intimidation. As you move west, a grand staircase leads down to a circular plaza that would link the park to a pedestrian boulevard the city plans to construct from the site north toward 42nd Street. 
 Mr. Jahn built his reputation in the 1980s and '90s, when many modern architects were struggling to pump energy into work that had become cold and alienating. Over all, the design looks like a conventional 1980s mega-development: an oddly retro vision of uniform glass towers set around a vast plaza decorated with a few scattered cafes. (In a rare nice touch, Mr. Jahn allows some of his towers to cantilever out over the deck of the High Line, playing up the violent clash between new and old.) 
 Another proposal, by Brookfield Properties, is an example of how real architectural talent can be used to give a plan an air of sophistication without adding much substance. Brookfield has included a few preliminary sketches of buildings by architectural luminaries like Diller Scofidio & Renfro and the Japanese firm Kazuyo Sejima & Ryue Nishizawa, but the sketches are nothing more than window dressing. The proposal includes a retail mall and commercial towers along 10th Avenue, which gives the public park an isolated feel. A hotel and retail complex cuts the park in two, so that you lose the full impact of its sweep. 
 For those who place urban-planning issues above dollars and cents, the Extell Development Company's proposal is the only one worth serious consideration. Designed by Steven Holl Architects of New York, the plan tries to minimize the impact of the development's immense scale. Most of the commercial space would be concentrated in three interconnecting towers on the northeast corner of the site. The towers' forms pull apart and join together as they rise -- an effort to break down their mass in the skyline. Smaller towers flank the site's southern edge, their delicate, shardlike forms designed to allow sunlight to spill into the park area. A low, 10-story commercial building to the north is lifted off the ground on columns to allow the park to slip underneath and connect to 33rd Street.
 The plan's most original feature is a bridgelike cable structure that would span the existing tracks and support a 19-acre public park. According to the developer, the cable system would reduce the cost of building over the tracks significantly, allowing the density to be reduced to 11.3 million square feet from 13 million and still make a profit. The result would be both a more generous public space and a less brutal assault on the skyline. It is a sensitive effort to blend the development into the city's existing fabric. 
 But what is really at issue here is putting the importance of profit margins above architecture and planning. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority could have pushed for more ambitious proposals. For decades now cities like Barcelona have insisted on a high level of design in large-scale urban-planning projects, and they have done so without economic ruin. 
 By contrast, the authority is more likely to focus on potential tenants like News Corporation and Conde Nast and the profits they can generate than on the quality of the design. A development company like Extell is likely to be rejected outright as too small to handle a project of this scale, however original its proposal. (In New York dark horse candidates often find that ambitious architectural proposals are one of the few ways to compete with bigger rivals.) 
 This is not how to build healthy cities. It is a model for their ruin, one that has led to a parade of soulless developments typically dressed up with a bit of parkland, a few commercial galleries and a token cultural institution -- the superficial gloss of civilization. As an ideal of urbanism, it is hollow to its core.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LARGE-SCALE MAKEOVER Two of the five proposals for development over the West Side railyards, right, include renderings by Related Companies for News Corporation, top, and Steven Holl Architects for the Extell Development Company, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RELATED COMPANIES
STEVEN HOLL ARCHITECTS
MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B7)
Proposals, from top, include a plan by Brookfield Properties, which is using several architects
FXFowle and Pelli Clarke Pelli's design for Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust
and Helmut Jahn's design for Tishman Speyer Properties. (ARTWORK COURTESY OF VORNADO REALTY TRUST
BROOKFIELD PROPERTIES/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEVEN HOLL ARCHITECTS) (pg.B11) MAP: The Metropolitan Transportation Authority owns the yards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (80%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007



513 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: Avoiding Medicare's Big Hole

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
The Medicare doughnut hole is the federal provision that older Americans love to hate.
 And that is not expected to change next year, when the doughnut hole -- the nickname for a big financial gap in each person's Medicare prescription drug coverage -- gets slightly larger. If the past is a guide, many people will struggle to secure a full year's supply of the drugs they need.
But despite the arrangement's unpopularity with older consumers, some experts see a positive public policy trend when they peer into the doughnut hole. Because it potentially forces a Medicare enrollee to pay more than $3,000 from his or her own pocket during the gap period, the hole is helping curb growth in the nation's drug spending by pushing people toward low-cost generic drugs. 
 And because the cheaper generics generally work just as well, patients are incorporating them into their permanent drug regimen, according to Dr. Tim Anderson, a pharmaceuticals analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, who is also a physician. 
 ''Clearly, once you're on the therapy, if you're tolerating it and you're saving money, there's no reason to switch back,'' he said. 
 It may not be a message that brand-name drug makers want to hear. But with the Medicare Part D drug program enrollment period now under way, through Dec. 31, analysts predict millions of older Americans will study generic drug prices and options as they select an insurance plan. Some economists say that many Medicare enrollees, through carefully planned use of generics, can avoid reaching the doughnut hole altogether.
 When the Medicare Part D program began in January 2006, makers of name-brand drugs considered it a welcome stimulus to overall use of prescription drugs. The industry knew the doughnut hole might steer some patients toward generic drugs, but not necessarily so soon. 
 ''I don't think they anticipated how quickly this kind of event could shift patients toward utilizing generics,'' said Peter C. Demogenes, a senior director of the research firm Wolters Kluwer. 
 Congress carved the doughnut hole into the Medicare prescription drug plan as a way to limit the federal outlay. But architects of the plan made sure some costs were covered for all Medicare beneficiaries upfront, while also seeing to it that the sickest would get help with catastrophic drug costs on the far side of the doughnut hole. Once a beneficiary has made it through the coverage gap in any given year -- in 2008, after the total cost of drugs has reached $5,726 -- prescriptions are generally covered at 95 percent. 
 About 4.2 million people reached the gap last year, according to a Wolters Kluwer study, and many of them switched to generics as a way to keep their out-of-pocket costs low. Others started using generic drugs even before they reached the doughnut hole to avoid the higher co-payments their policies charged for brand-name drugs. 
 In 2006, an estimated 59.6 percent of the Part D prescriptions were filled by generic drugs. By the first quarter of 2007, the most recent period for which data are available, the generic rate in Medicare had edged higher, to 61.5 percent, according to Medicare figures. 
 Billy Tauzin, the president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the trade association for brand-name drug companies, said it was clear that the Medicare program, including the doughnut hole, was helping drive the use of generic drugs. And the popularity of generic drugs is cutting into the profit margins of branded drug companies, he added. 
 Mr. Tauzin, a former congressman, said his group had made several proposals to Congress for shrinking the doughnut hole. Among the suggestions, he said, was to count the free drugs that companies sometimes provide to lower-income Medicare beneficiaries as part of the patients' running total of drug costs. Doing so would make their catastrophic coverage kick in sooner.
 ''We can help them, but it doesn't count toward getting them out of the doughnut hole,'' Mr. Tauzin said. ''That's not fair.'' 
 Kerry N. Weems, the acting Medicare administrator, said the doughnut hole was not the only reason that generics were on the rise. The Part D program over all has made consumers more price-conscious, he said, noting that Medicare's Web site lists the prices of pharmaceuticals dispensed at each drugstore participating in a particular Medicare plan. ''It will show you month by month for the entire year what your yearly expenditures are,'' he said. 
 In 2008, the gap in the standard Medicare drug benefit begins when a patient's total drug costs have reached $2,510, including the portion paid by Medicare and the patient's own out-of-pocket deductibles and co-payments. The beneficiary must then absorb 100 percent of costs out of pocket for the next $3,216, until total drug costs have reached $5,726. Only then does the catastrophic coverage kick in. 
 While federal assistance is available to help the poorest patients with premiums, deductibles and co-pays under the Medicare program, those who fall just above the poverty guidelines and cannot get extra help sometimes simply stop taking their medications once they reach the doughnut hole or rack up big credit card debt to pay for them. 
 Debbie Mullaney, the pharmaceutical coordinator for a community health clinic in Cumberland, Md., said her clinic looked for ways to help such patients get their medications. 
 When people reach the doughnut hole, she said, they must continue to pay their monthly Part D insurance premiums -- typically $30 or so -- even as they also pay for their medicines out of pocket. During that period, the clinic tries to help patients switch to generics or supplies them with free samples from brand-name drug companies.
 ''We always try steps to get them on something they can afford and get them some accessibility,'' Ms. Mullaney said. 
 A recent AARP survey found that among Medicare beneficiaries who reached the doughnut hole, 15 percent decided not to fill a prescription.
 Dr. James D. King, a family physician in Selmer, Tenn., estimates that 50 to 70 percent of his Medicare patients hit the doughnut hole -- at which point they switch to generics, ask for free samples or simply stop taking their medicine. 
 In some cases, Dr. King said, patients elect to switch to another type of drug altogether to reduce costs. For example, patients taking Benicar, a blood-pressure treatment that is not available as a generic, may switch to lisinopril, a generic that also lowers blood pressure but sometimes causes the side effect of coughing. 
 Another example he cited is that patients taking Plavix, a brand-name blood thinner, might simply use aspirin, a blood thinner that is not as effective but is much cheaper. ''It's not unusual to have a patient who is taking anywhere from 7 to 13 medications every day,'' said Dr. King, who is president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. ''We start to look at which ones you absolutely need to be on and which ones you don't.''
 Lillian Russell, 86, a widow from Hummelstown, Pa., takes eight prescription drugs. Even though five of them are generic, she reached the doughnut hole this year in July. Her prescription drug bill in September, which she paid entirely on her own, was $727.91. Mrs. Russell believes she will remain in the gap for the rest of the year.
 ''Unfortunately, two of the drugs I have been on are fairly new ones and are very expensive and there is no generic for them,'' Mrs. Russell said. Though generics are not always an option, some economists say that with proper planning, some patients who entered the doughnut hole this year could have avoided it. 
 A study by Express Scripts, the pharmaceutical benefit manager, said that an analysis of 220,000 patients found that 23 percent of those who fell into the doughnut hole in 2006 could have skirted it by using generics to cut drug costs. Such planning, though, requires that patients talk to doctors about their finances. Many people are embarrassed to bring up money when discussing prescription drugs with their doctors, and many physicians never broach the subject with patients. 
 A study of more than 1,100 patients published by The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society found that four of five wanted doctors to discuss medication costs, but fewer than one in five doctors did. One in three patients in the study who cut back on their drugs because of cost said they had never asked their doctor for help in reducing expenses. 
 Dr. Ted D. Epperly, a physician in Boise, Idaho, and president-elect of the American Academy of Family Physicians, said that patients were sometimes embarrassed to discuss their finances. 
 ''Usually I'm a little blind to it if they're in the doughnut hole,'' Dr. Epperly said, ''mainly because they're proud people, and they feel their obligation isn't to share that with the doctor.''
 Patient Money: Articles in this series address pocketbook and other consumer considerations involved in choosing and using health care. Additional articles are at nytimes.com /patientmoney. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lillian Russell with David Lutz in Hummelstown, Pa. She spent more than $700 on medicines in September. (KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Shakeya McClintock, center, and Vonel Teragene, right, help D. D. White at a Medicare event at Morris College in Sumter, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PERRY BAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: Coverage Concerns: A recent AARP survey found that many Medicare-age Americans are concerned about gaps in their drug insurance and their ability to pay for prescription medicines. (Source: AARP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MATURE MARKET (73%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (69%); WOLTERS KLUWER NV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (84%)

TICKER: WKL (AMS) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (69%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



514 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 703 words

PERSON: Robert McNair 

HEADLINE: Robert McNair, 83, Governor Of South Carolina in the '60s

BYLINE: By JACK BASS

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Former Gov. Robert E. McNair of South Carolina, the political moderate who was a finalist to become Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey's running mate in 1968 but whose promising career was cut short by what became known as the Orangeburg Massacre, died last Saturday in Charleston. He was 83.
 The cause was brain cancer, O. Wayne Corley, senior shareholder in the McNair Law Firm, announced. 
Mr. McNair was remembered as a progressive governor at a time of racial change and social and political upheaval, but the deaths on Feb. 8, 1968, of three black college students from state highway patrol gunfire, and the wounding of 27 others, put an end to his hope of higher office. 
 Mr. McNair, born Dec. 14, 1923, in the rural Low Country of South Carolina, was buried Tuesday near his childhood home in Berkeley County. As lieutenant governor in 1965, he succeeded Gov. Donald S. Russell, who resigned to take the Senate seat vacated by the death of Olin D. Johnston. Mr. McNair was elected to a full four-year term in 1966.
 Mr. McNair received contemporary attention for his deft handling of several tense racial conflicts, including a student protest at the historically black South Carolina State College, now university, in Orangeburg, in the spring of 1967. But then came the shootings the next February. 
 The shootings occurred on the third night of growing tension that began with student protests against the refusal of Orangeburg's only bowling alley to accept black patrons. Nine highway patrolmen, who had been issued deadly buckshot in a crowd-control situation and given individual authority to fire weapons if they believed their life or that of a fellow officer was in danger, were later acquitted of federal charges of imposing summary punishment without due process of law.
 Mr. McNair had blamed ''black power'' influences for the events; he also incorrectly stated the morning after the shooting that it had occurred ''off the campus.''
 In 1967 Mr. McNair had played host to Humphrey on a visit to the state that included an address to the Legislature and a luncheon meeting that Mr. McNair set up in Greenville. There Humphrey heard local and state business and industry leaders, as well as the state president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and chief executive of the state N.A.A.C.P., which remained the state's dominant civil rights organization, speak with pride of South Carolina's linked progress in economic development and accommodation to the 1964 Civil Rights Act and 1965 Voting Rights Act.
 At the raucous Democratic National Convention in Chicago in the summer of 1968, Mr. McNair arrived as chairman of both the Southern Governors Conference and the National Democratic Governors Conference. His South Carolina delegation included 12 African-Americans, including the state N.A.A.C.P. president, Alonzo W. Holman.
 In vetting Mr. McNair, who was notified he was one of four finalists for Humphrey's running mate, a top aide to Humphrey asked Mr. Holman if he could support Mr. McNair. Mr. Holman responded that if not for what had happened at Orangeburg, he could have supported Mr. McNair enthusiastically, but that he no longer could. Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine became the party's vice-presidential nominee.
 With no Southerner on the Democratic ticket for the first time in decades, Humphrey and Muskie carried only President Lyndon B. Johnson's Texas among the 11 states that had formed the Confederacy.
 Mr. McNair, who built a highly successful law firm, never again sought public office.
 He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Josephine Robinson McNair of Columbia; a son, Robert E. Jr., of Columbia; three daughters, Robin Lee Howell and Corinne Godshall of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Claudia Crawford McNair of Jamestown, S.C.; , six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild. 
 In a biography published in 2006, Mr. McNair acknowledged ''responsibility'' for what happened in Orangeburg.
 The state of South Carolina has never conducted an official investigation of the shootings. A bill introduced in the state House of Representatives this year providing for such a study never emerged from a subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee, but remains available for consideration in 2008. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert E. McNair (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH GLICKSTEIN/ THE STATE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (84%); DUE PROCESS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (62%); CANCER (57%); BRAIN CANCER (57%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

COMPANY: MCNAIR LAW FIRM PA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



515 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
CASH INFUSION FOR H&R BLOCK H&R Block, the tax preparer, said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it had received $350 million of extra financing for its mortgage unit from Greenwich Capital Financial Products. The agreement increases the funds available to H&R Block's Option One unit to $750 million.
 H&R Block replaced its chairman and chief executive, Mark Ernst, on Tuesday after $1 billion of losses tied to subprime mortgages. The company said in August that an agreement to sell Option One to the hedge fund Cerberus Capital Management was collapsing. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 
IAC TO EXPAND IN CHINA The media mogul Barry Diller said yesterday that his Internet conglomerate, IAC/InterActiveCorp, would invest $100 million to expand in China by creating services for local users. IAC also will start its Ask.com search engine in China within two years, Mr. Diller, left, said.
 IAC is looking for opportunities to develop or buy businesses geared to Chinese users, Mr. Diller said. He said it wants to avoid the fate of Internet outfits that have struggled in China with offerings developed for the United States and other foreign markets. IAC's 30 Web brands include the dating site Match.com and the directory service Citysearch. (AP)
 DEAL FOR NICKEL COMPLEX Three of Russia's richest men are in advanced stages of negotiations over the sale of a 25 percent stake in the Norilsk Nickel mining and smelting complex in Siberia. The factory, built by gulag prisoners, produces 20 percent of the world's supply of nickel, an alloy used in stainless steel. 
 Russia's largest aluminum factory, Rusal, majority owned by Oleg V. Deripaska, has signed an agreement with the businessman Mikhail D. Prokhorov to buy a 25 percent stake in the plant, the Interfax news agency reported. Mr. Prokhorov had also received an offer from his former partner in the factory, Vladimir O. Potanin, according to a statement from Mr. Potanin's holding company, Interros, released last week. ANDREW E. KRAMER
 SLOWER GROWTH IN BRITAIN Britain's economic growth unexpectedly slowed to the weakest pace in a year during the third quarter as service industries cooled and factory production stalled. Gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the three months through September, the Office for National Statistics said in London.
 It previously estimated 0.8 percent, which was also the median of 31 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey. The annual growth rate was 3.2 percent, the most since 2004. Rachel Lomax, deputy governor of the Bank of England, said that the economy ''does now seem to be slowing,'' posing a dilemma for policy makers as record oil prices threaten to stoke inflation. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 BANKS BUY A BRITISH UTILITYJPMorgan Chase and Commonwealth Bank of Australia agreed to buy the United Utilities power-distribution unit in Britain for $:1.14 billion ($2.34 billion), adding electricity customers to their British water assets.
 The partners expect to acquire the network, which supplies electricity to about 2.2 million people in northwest England, by Dec. 31, United Utilities said. The purchase price, including debt, totals $:1.78 billion. Banks and pension funds are among investors competing for utilities' assets because they offer reliable revenue. The Kelda Group, the water supplier to British cities including Leeds and Sheffield, was approached Thursday with a $:3 billion offer from a group including Citigroup and HSBC Holdings. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 AKZO OFFERS TO SELL ASSETSAkzo Nobel, the world's largest maker of paints and coatings, has offered to sell assets including its British Crown brand to win European antitrust approval for its proposed $16 billion purchase of Imperial Chemical Industries.
 Akzo, a Dutch company, has proposed disposing of most of its decorative coatings business in Britain and Ireland and its De Keyn brand in Belgium, a company spokesman said. Akzo's decorative coatings business is its largest division, accounting for more than a third of sales last year. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 QUALCOMM RULING AFFIRMED
 A federal judge affirmed a jury verdict that the wireless chip developer Qualcomm infringed Broadcom Corporation patents but removed an award of double damages for Broadcom, the companies said.
 Broadcom said it would not seek a new trial and would accept the $19.6 million in damages originally awarded by the jury. The company said it would pursue an injunction to prevent Qualcomm from making, using, selling and developing chips that infringe any of its patents. (REUTERS) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Qualcomm Per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); DATING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (70%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); STATISTICS (64%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (84%); COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD (60%); GREENWICH CAPITAL FINANCIAL INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (57%); OJSC MMC NORILSK NICKEL (54%); UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (53%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%); IACI (NASDAQ) (84%); CBA (ASX) (60%); NNIA (FRA) (54%); MNOD (LSE) (54%); GMKN (RTS) (54%); RUSAL (PAR) (53%); 0486 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (54%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (54%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (76%); MARK ERNST (58%); OLEG DERIPASKA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



516 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Small Things in Good Packages

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
 IT was a gray morning, with rain falling from low-hanging clouds making the notorious Tokyo traffic even worse. Rows of idling vehicles were lined up three lanes deep, but I was able to pull into the clogged artery when I finally found a hole.
 Fortunately, I was driving a Suzuki Wagon R, an easy fit in the claustrophobic world of Tokyo traffic.
 The Wagon R has become a pint-size legend here. It is classified as a Kei car, which means it is limited in length, width, engine size and horsepower. The Wagon R itself is less than 14 feet long, less than 5 feet wide and about 6 feet high. Despite those dimensions, it is fairly roomy and comfortable even for a 6-foot-3 American.
 The Wagon R is not only the best-selling of 58 models in the Kei (pronounced kay, short for keijidsha, meaning light automobile) category, Suzuki also boasts that it is Japan's best-selling model of any type. Sometime next year, Suzuki expects to produce its three-millionth Wagon R. 
 As impressive as that total is, it would be millions more if all the Wagon R variations and spinoffs were added in, said Keigo Kanbara, a Suzuki spokesman in Tokyo. Last year, in the model's 14th year on the market, 221,066 Wagon R's were sold.
 During my test drive, Mr. Kanbara and his associate from the marketing department, Tsuyoshi Takeshita, drove ahead of me in a Suzuki S.U.V. to help me find my way, even though the Wagon R came with a wonderful navigation system. I suspect they were more than a little worried about the difficulties an American might have reading signs, not to mention driving on the left. But the Wagon R was a snap to operate.
 The dark gray test car, with front-wheel drive and a four-speed automatic transaxle, pulled smartly into traffic. A five-speed manual and a continuously variable transmission are also available, as is all-wheel drive.
 The engine has three cylinders and is limited by law to just 660 cc, or 0.66 liters. (By comparison, the smallest Suzuki sold in America, the SX4, has a 2-liter 4-cylinder engine.)
 In base form, the Wagon R power plant produces 54 horsepower, which seems ridiculously paltry considering that Suzuki makes motorcycles with engines twice as large that have four times the power.
 The Kei car category was originally created for low-income people who could barely afford a motorcycle. That's why engine sizes are limited to two-thirds of a liter, which is motorcycle-caliber.
 Japanese law also limits Kei cars to no more than 64 horsepower. But that restriction hasn't stopped an aftermarket industry of Kei car hot-rodding equipment from springing up. Kei cars are raced. They are turbocharged, supercharged and nitrous-oxide-charged. The rub is that every two years the cars must pass inspection.
 ''So the tuners either sell them before the inspection takes place, or they have to take the equipment off,'' Mr. Kanbara said.
 As soon as the inspection is passed, I asked, does the equipment go back on?
 ''We can't know that,'' he said with a shy smile. ''But probably. Yeah. Sure. Of course it does.'' 
 But even in stock configuration, the Wagon R feels surprisingly peppy. It sprinted effortlessly to clear an intersection before the light changed to yellow. Free of the scrum, the Wagon R finally hit high gear as we drove down Shinjuku Route 4. Mark Harano, president of American Suzuki, rode with me to answer questions and point out landmarks. We went past Yoyoki Park, where the 1964 Olympics were held. I was surprised by how many people were out running, despite the sheets of rain. Understandable, I was told later, because Tokyo aspires to win the bidding for the 2016 Olympics.
 On our left, we passed lush Shinjuku Gyoen, with its 20,000 trees, including the 1,500 cherry trees. 
 At times, in heavy traffic surrounded by much larger vehicles, the Wagon R felt like a goldfish in a koi pond. But about a third of the cars here are Kei cars, so you're swimming in a school of fellow small fry.
 It was easy to spot other Kei cars because of their special black and yellow license plates. As Mr. Harano noted, Suzuki makes most of the Keis, including the ones wearing Mazda and Nissan badges (including the delightfully named Mazda Scrum and Nissan Moco). Mitsubishi and Daihatsu make most of the rest. Toyota does not offer a Kei car, but its interests are represented by Daihatsu, which it owns. The Smart ForTwo is the only non-Japanese Kei car, but it ranks dead last in sales.
 Most Kei cars are tall wagons for four people and a couple of pieces of luggage. Suzuki used to make a racy Kei coupe called the Cappuccino, now discontinued, that is highly prized by collectors. Scattered among the traffic as we circled Akasaka Palace were commercial vehicles with black and yellow plates that included delivery wagons, flatbeds, panel trucks and even a cement mixer that looked as if it could hold no more than a half a yard of concrete. (The big mixers around American construction sites have a capacity of at least 10 cubic yards.)
 ''Yes, these are classified as Kei cars, too,'' Mr. Takeshita told me before our drive.
 ''I'll bet I could jump over that,'' I said of the cement mixer. I was also told there were Kei ambulances, too.
 These tiny vehicles looked like overgrown Fisher-Price kiddie cars, but they are very serviceable in alleys, on one-lane streets and for tiny parking spaces. In fact, tight quarters in Tokyo and other large cities are part of the rationale for Kei cars, though they became popular and found enduring appeal for still other reasons. 
 Until recently, Kei cars were a way around some laws. They were originally exempt from emissions testing, insurance requirements and even parking regulations that required people to show that they own or rent a legal parking space before they can register the vehicle.
 ''Rules are the same now for everybody,'' Mr. Takeshita said.
 As we zipped in and out of a traffic tie-up in front of the busy Shinjuku train station, I could see the appeal of such a small car in such tight spaces.
 The Wagon R weighs about 1,800 pounds and does not have the safety gear it would need to pass American crash tests, the main reason Kei cars are not exported to the United States. Adding safety equipment would add weight, meaning the chassis would have to be strengthened and the engine size increased to pull the heavier car. That, of course, would reduce the great gas mileage the cars get in Japan. 
 Still, today's Kei cars have lap and shoulder belts and front air bags. A slightly wider version with a bigger motor, the Wagon R+, is sold in Europe and a few other countries. So maybe Suzuki will someday sell a Wagon R or a variant in the United States.
 ''We are looking at a number of possibilities for the U.S. market,'' Hiroshi Tsuda, the president of the Suzuki Motor Corporation, said of the Kei cars during an interview at the Tokyo Motor Show last month.
 Would Americans take to the Wagon R the way the Japanese have? Well, did I mention the car's fuel economy numbers? Your mileage may vary, but I averaged nearly 60 miles a gallon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WEE ONES: Classified as Kei cars in Japan, the Suzuki Wagon R, above, also comes in commercial versions.
EASY TO PARK The Honda LiFE C. (pg.AU1)
 A SCHOOL OF KEIS: Kei cars fill Tokyo's roads. At right, top and bottom, the Daihatsu Move, and far right, top and bottom, the Daihatsu Tanto. (pg.AU18) CHART: Scaled-Down Cars for Crowded Tokyo Streets 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTORCYCLES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); POWER PLANTS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



517 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Where Mansions Go Begging

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: Grosse Pointe, Mich. 

 BODY:
 WHAT is striking about the mansions and tree-lined roads of this exclusive suburb of Detroit is not the elegance and wealth -- it's the real estate signs. 
 Almost 700 homes are currently on the market in the five Grosse Pointe communities, according to brokers, twice as many as in the same time in 2005. And since June, prices for the most expensive houses have dropped by around $100,000 a month.
 Ever since the mid-19th century, when the first grand summer mansions were built along the shores of Lake St. Clair, just north of Detroit, the name Grosse Pointe has conveyed exclusivity and wealth. While nearby Detroit declined over the last five decades, this affluent suburb thrived, with some episodic downturns in the early 1980s and 1990s. 
 Its untouchable reputation held up so well that in 2001 the former WB Network aired ''Grosse Pointe,'' a prime-time drama about pampered teenagers. Now, six years later, Grosse Pointe is very much touched by market trends. 
 Home prices in the greater Detroit area have fallen by 20 percent, and in many instances more than that, in just a year. Homes that sold for $450,000 in 2006 have typically sold for $360,000 or less in 2007, real estate agents say.
 The resulting market here in southeast Michigan has created a legion of frustrated sellers and plenty of opportunity for choosy buyers. 
 Mary Alice O'Toole, a sales representative, raised four children and spent 32 years in the Grosse Pointe Woods home that she and her husband, Joe, bought in 1975 for $85,000. (They spent $100,000 more for an addition in 1982.)
 They are hoping to sell their home -- a 3,500-square-foot brick colonial with five bedrooms and three and a half baths -- for $479,000. Originally, it went on the market in June for $549,000. 
 ''I think we've had seven people go through, and two people are interested,'' Mrs. O'Toole said, ''but no offers.'' The couple are planning to move to downtown Chicago, where Mr. O'Toole will start a new job. 
 In other Oakland County enclaves that rival Grosse Pointe -- Birmingham, Bloomfield and Bloomfield Township -- the real estate market is just as soft. According to housing sales data compiled by Bob Taylor, an agent and researcher in Birmingham with Weir Manuel Realtors, sales peaked in the Birmingham and Bloomfield region in the second quarter of 2004, when 281 homes sold for an average price of $528,000 and a median price of $395,500. At the time, homes stayed on the market an average of 65 days. 
 In the second quarter of 2007, just 173 houses were sold in the three communities, he said. They stayed on the market for an average of 174 days, though prices were up, to an average of $605,828 and a median price of $446,750.
 In all, there are nearly 41,000 homes on the market in Detroit and its three surrounding counties, twice as many as in 2005. 
 ''You can't invent buyers,'' said Mr. Taylor, who noted that in 2004, his agency had an average of six open houses for each listing. This year, it had just two for every listing. ''These numbers prove what we've experienced,'' he said. ''There are substantially less people looking in this market.''
 Indeed, Michigan has lost 369,000 jobs since 2000, according to an analysis by the University of Michigan, with 60 percent of those positions coming from the Detroit region alone. Many of those jobs have been from higher-paying manufacturing positions related to designing and building cars and trucks.
 The state's unemployment rate of 7.7 percent in October is the highest in the nation, and adjusting for inflation, its median income has fallen 12 percent since 2000, according to the Labor Department.
 The crisis in the mortgage industry has struck hard here, too, especially for those who bought their homes with adjustable-rate financing. As of last month, 60 homes had been foreclosed in Grosse Pointe; at the same time last year there were 16, according to the Michigan Multiple Listing Service. 
 Brokers say that tastes have changed as well. Young high-earning professionals prefer newer homes, and will settle for older homes only if they have been completely updated. The 1920s homes in Grosse Pointe and Birmingham that have not undergone extensive remodeling are not nearly as attractive as they once were.
 Tamara Smith, an agent with Coldwell Banker Schweitzer Real Estate in Grosse Pointe, says the hardest part of her job is persuading sellers to be realistic about how much they can ask for their home when it's put on the market. 
 ''They come in with a number in mind, and it's just way out of the realm of possibility,'' she said. ''And even if we work to get the right price, I tell them it could be 12 to 18 months.'' 
 Mrs. Smith says brokers and sellers are deploying every strategy they can think of to market homes, like hiring professional ''stagers'' to tidy yards and redecorate interiors to make homes more inviting to buyers. 
 It has helped. In the first 10 months of this year, 592 homes were sold in the five Grosse Pointe cities, according to Mrs. Smith. During the same period last year, 465 homes were sold, she said. 
 Falling prices mean that buyers are finding what they view as bargains. 
 George C. Watson, a 57-year-old lawyer, and his partner, John Fitzpatrick, 44, a communications manager for Aramark in Detroit, went into contract in October on a ranch house in Grosse Pointe Shores with three bedrooms, two bathrooms and 2,100 square feet of living space. They paid $340,000. Two years ago, Mr. Watson said, the same home would have cost $450,000. 
 Mr. Watson is concerned about the market's instability, but said he planned to stay in the house for many years and believed the market would rebound before he needed to sell.
 Chuck Rizzo, the owner of a waste-hauling company, is a seller and a buyer. He has two homes listed for sale in Grosse Pointe; one has been on the market since 2006 and the other since June. Neither has had any offers. 
 Last month, Mr. Rizzo bought a 5,900-square-foot home in Bloomfield Township for $1.5 million -- $500,000 less than the asking price. ''On that one I did well,'' he said, explaining that personal circumstances involving his young son prompted him to move to a new school district. ''With the other ones, I'm dying,'' added Mr. Rizzo, who is 37. ''There's just no security in this market.''
 In other affluent real estate markets around the country like Palm Beach, Fla.; Orange County, Calif.; and Scottsdale, Ariz., inventories of expensive homes are growing and prices are falling, according to brokers. 
 ''People in this business much older than me say they've never seen anything like it,'' said Keith Stonehouse, a vice president with the Franklin Title Agency who teaches professional development seminars, like the ''Reality of Realty,'' in the region. 
 ''I saw a guy buy a house for $2.1 million in Bloomfield last year -- a brand-new house,'' Mr. Stonehouse said. ''He got hit by the economy and never moved in. Now the house is on the market for $950,000, and it might not sell for that much.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUYER'S MARKET: Chuck Rizzo bought a home in Bloomfield Township for $1.5 million, $500,000 below the asking price.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO CONSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
 BIG INVENTORY: A home for sale by Chuck Rizzo, above. Grand houses, like those at left and below left, line Grosse Pointe's streets. Joe and Mary Alice O'Toole are also hoping to sell their home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO CONSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE9 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FORCE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



518 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET MAKER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: The Store Is Jumpin'. The Stock Isn't.

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
IT'S always been one of the most appealing bits of investor folklore: the retailer you discover after a visit to the mall, or the hip clothing company you hear about from your teenager and whose stocks end up going up through the roof.
 There's even a term for these kind of picks -- Peter Lynch stocks -- named after the legendary former manager of the Fidelity Magellan fund, who boasted of how he discovered some of his most successful bets like Taco Bell and Hanes ''through eating or shopping, sometimes long before other professional stock hounds came across them.'' 
 In his best-selling book from 1989, ''One Up on Wall Street,'' there's even a chapter entitled ''Stalking the Tenbagger.'' That's the kind of stock that goes up tenfold, and he says the best place to begin looking for one is ''close to home, if not in the backyard then down at the shopping mall and especially wherever you happen to work.''
 Seventeen years after stepping down as manager of the Magellan fund, Mr. Lynch remains a legend. The 29.2 percent average annual gains that he scored there remain the envy of the four managers who've subsequently run that $47 billion fund.
 But the problems now facing many consumer-driven companies should make ordinary investors think twice about using his approach to finding promising stock picks when they go holiday shopping in the coming weeks, even if stores are packed.
 This isn't just true of fashion retailers like American Eagle Outfitters, which is down more than 28 percent this year, or Talbots, off 41 percent. Even Starbucks, whose coffeehouses have become a ubiquitous feature of the American landscape, just reported a decline in same-store sales for the first time. I confess to being a Starbucks regular -- I waited in line for my venti half-caf before sitting down to write this column -- but its shares are near 2 1/2-year lows.
 Part of that drop is because the United States economy seems to be slowing, and the meltdown in the housing sector is affecting consumers' willingness to spend.
 But Wall Street veterans like Byron Wien, who spent decades at Morgan Stanley and is now chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital, also question whether the Peter Lynch approach makes sense anymore. ''Times change; markets evolve,'' he notes. ''What might have worked in the 1970s and 1980s may not work today.''
 In part, Mr. Wien says that's because there is faster growth outside of the United States today in countries like India and China, ''and you're not likely to hang out in those places, even if you visit them.'' 
 What's more, he says, the sectors that have boomed in recent years have included commodities and energy, ''and they're not the kind of thing that are likely to be part of your everyday experience.''
 ''Home Depot is a terrific place to shop,'' he adds. ''But it's been a disappointing stock. Understanding balance sheets and being able to make earnings projections is more important than anecdotal experience.''
 Now semiretired, although he still works with younger Fidelity analysts, Mr. Lynch says he never claimed that investing was simple -- or easy: ''People take this to the extreme and say, 'Lynch says you can go to the mall and make a ton of money.' ''
 ''You got to do the research,'' he adds. ''These are not lottery tickets. You've got to ask what inning of the ballgame are we in? Is this company financially solid? Are they profitable? When you're in every mall in the U.S., and there's nowhere to go, it's hard to grow.''
 Kimberly Greenberger, who covers specialty apparel retailers like American Eagle, J. Crew and Abercrombie & Fitch for Citigroup, wouldn't knock Mr. Lynch. But she, too, cautions that a packed store on the Friday after Thanksgiving, or even the entire month of December, is very different from a potential winner on Wall Street.
 ''They're going to be very busy,'' she says. ''But these retailers will be judged on year-over-year revenue growth and it's very difficult for individuals to judge sales relative to last year.''
 IN fact, she adds that while there are names in her sector that she likes, like Gap and TJX, owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, she doesn't consider her group suitable for buy-and-hold investors.
 ''These are volatile businesses,'' she says. ''Their problem is figuring out today what I'm going to respond to emotionally next spring, and that's just a very, very difficult bar to hit on a regular basis.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Starbucks may be busy, but it recently reported its first decline in same-store sales. Its shares are near 2 1/2-year lows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FOLKLORE (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (58%); TACO BELL CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

TICKER: AEO (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (76%); INDIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



519 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; GO FIGURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Guess What Happens Next

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
YOU need not be a Wall Street chieftain to feel the anxiety that has wrapped its arms around the American economy. The stock market seems locked in a downward spiral as one bank after another suffers its day of reckoning with bad mortgages. Companies are sharply cutting profit forecasts as the sense takes hold that American consumers are finally too loaded with debt to buy the next flat-screen television. The dollar has fallen to inglorious depths, turning Manhattan department stores into something like a Tijuana street market for Germans. One unpleasant word hovers large: recession. 
 How bad could things get? Pretty bad, say many economists. Not so bad that your grandfather's prescriptions for enduring the Great Depression need dusting off, but nasty enough to force many Americans to get reacquainted with living within their means. That could make life uncomfortable. It may also be an unavoidable step toward purging the United States and the global economy of a major source of instability -- an unhealthy dependence on the willingness of American consumers to keep buying even as debt mounts. Concerns that Americans must eventually grow thrifty, leaving factories from Guangzhou to Guatemala City scrambling for buyers, now sows unease around the world. 
 It is worth bearing in mind that the American economy has a history of unexpected resilience in the face of supposedly grim prospects. Moreover, some parts of the economy are enjoying good times, notably farmers able to cash in on the making of ethanol. That said, most economists think the American economy is headed for a significant slowdown, as housing prices keep falling, consumers grow tight, and businesses cut investments. 
 The Federal Reserve last week said it expected the economy to grow 1.6 percent to 2.6 percent next year, a stark contrast from the 3.9 percent rate registered in the most recent quarter. Some see signs of a worst-case scenario -- a severe recession that would feature a plummeting stock market, a lower dollar and the loss of many jobs. That would make for an unpleasant year or two for Americans from most walks of life. It would probably drag down the world economy, as Americans put off purchases of everything from computers made in China to Italian-produced sports cars. 
 The most bearish indulge frighteningly gloomy tones. ''The evidence is now building that an ugly recession is inevitable,'' declared Nouriel Roubini, an economist who was among the first to warn of the dangers of a real estate downturn, writing last week on his blog, the Global EconoMonitor. ''When the United States sneezes the rest of the world gets the cold. And since the United States will not just sneeze, but is risking a serious case of protracted and severe pneumonia, the rest of the world should start to worry about a serious viral contagion.'' 
 Most economists are not so pessimistic. The most likely outcome envisioned by many is a slowdown or a mild recession. That would increase unemployment somewhat, and it would keep the stock market in the doldrums, but it would probably not be severe enough to significantly crimp economies abroad. And while it would impose pain, some see in this more moderate path a way to fix the imbalances in world trade that are at the center of fears of a great unraveling. 
 Americans have been buying staggering quantities of goods from overseas using money lent by foreigners. Foreign exporters have been relying on American consumers to keep them in business. For years, this dynamic has made for increasingly lopsided terms of trade: Last year, American imports outstripped exports by $764 billion, with foreigners stepping in to cover the difference. 
 Economists have long intoned that somehow, some day, the United States will be forced to settle up and stop depending upon the largess of foreigners. The basic laws of economics say imbalances are eventually balanced. Some have warned of a worst-case scenario where the foreigners holding American debt get spooked that the value of the dollar is about to plummet and dump the currency in a self-fulfilling prophesy. This would jack up the price of imported goods in the United States, making it harder for Japan, China and Europe to sell their wares, and delivering a global recession. 
 In the more appetizing scenario, the adjustment would happen gradually. The dollar would fall, making American goods cheaper abroad and helping to correct the trade imbalance. The American economy would slow, but the world economy would continue apace, allowing American firms to export aggressively.
 Faced with slower business at home, Americans would be more inclined to save. That would force Japan, China, India and other export giants to find new ways to prosper without leaning on the beleaguered American consumer. The world economy would be cleansed of its imbalances, emerging stronger. The more optimistic suggest that this very scenario is now unfolding. 
 ''If you're a global benevolent despot, you want a five-year period where China booms, India booms and the U.S. consumer takes a decided back seat,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the brokerage and advisory firm ITG. ''You need to have a period where Asia booms and we limp along, because the No. 1 worry for the world economy is large, unsustainable trade imbalances.'' 
 To grasp what may at first seem perverse -- pain required to get back to gain -- it is worth recalling the genesis of our current predicament. 
 A decade ago came a financial crisis in Asia. As losses rippled around the globe, credit dried up, threatening the willingness of consumers to spend and businesses to invest. With the health of the global economy menaced, central banks lowered interest rates, fueling a wave of spending that, for the most part, has kept things rolling along.
 In the United States, cheap credit added momentum to the boom in technology. That story ended badly, of course, with many companies extinguished along with tens of billions of shareholder dollars. But it did not deter the American consumer, whose spending amounts to 70 percent of the American economy. The Federal Reserve again opened the taps of cheap credit. Spending went on. 
 As Americans have carried home mountains of goods manufactured in Japan, China and elsewhere, they have sent trillions of dollars across the Pacific to pay for them. Asian central banks have taken these winnings and parked them back in the United States, buying up Treasury bills, stocks and property. In so doing, they have kept American interest rates low and the dollar stronger, ensuring that consumers have the wherewithal to keep buying. 
 Asia's export-led prosperity has in turn generated business for American firms. As China erects factories, office towers and modern airlines, it is snapping up construction equipment from Caterpillar, airplanes from Boeing and engines from Cummins. 
 Cheap credit has fostered another development that was crucial in creating the current state of things: It unleashed a wave of mortgages with exotically lenient terms, such as interest-only payments and no money down. That allowed buyers to take on more expensive homes than they could have otherwise afforded. As home values rose much the way dot-com stocks had a decade earlier, banks offered loans and no-fuss refinancing that allowed homeowners to turn increased value into money. From 2004 to 2006, Americans took more than $800 billion a year out of their homes, according to most estimates. 
 With prices now plummeting and banks savaged by mortgage losses, this artery of credit is drying up. The American consumer, a crucial engine of growth for the global economy, may finally be tapped out. 
 With recent history as a guide, many argue that the Fed and other central banks need simply step in anew, cut interest rates and send Americans back to the mall. Except a new force preoccupies those who control the credit taps: Central banks in the United States and Europe fear inflation, particularly as oil prices soar. This makes them reluctant to bring interest rates down much more. 
 Where foreigners have in recent years been content to keep buying American debt with the proceeds of the money they earn by selling us their goods, that is now changing. As the dollar keeps falling in value, China has sent signals that it plans to put more of its savings in the euro. Petroleum-rich countries such as Kuwait and Russia, swimming in dollars as the price of oil climbs, have been buying more euros and other currencies, too, adding to the downward pressure on the American currency.
 So, for better or worse, Americans and countries whose prosperity is tied to Americans' spending are apparently headed into uncharted territory: We are about to find out what happens when the easy money runs out. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''The World's Leading Shoppers: Americans'' CONTRIBUTION TO WORLD GROWTH: American domestic demand -- which includes investment as well as consumption -- contributed about one-third of the global economic growth from 2000 to 2006. CONSUMER SPENDING: The U.S. has about 4.5 percent of the world's population, but its consumers account for nearly a fifth of the world's G.D.P. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis and Moody's Economy.com (consumer spending)
 Goldman Sachs (world growth)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); LAYOFFS (66%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (61%); PNEUMONIA (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); HOME PRICES (50%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



520 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 868 words

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
WHAT WAS ASKED OF US: An Oral History of the Iraq War, by the Soldiers Who Fought It, by Trish Wood. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.99.) Wood, a Canadian investigative reporter, interviewed 29 American veterans of the Iraq war. The men and women came from different personal and ideological backgrounds, but their descriptions of their experience all display a sense of duty and courage in the face of war's violence. Funny and horrible, coarse and colloquial, the soldiers' accounts are ''honest, agenda-free and chilling,'' Tara McKelvey wrote in the Book Review.
 OOGA-BOOGA, by Frederick Seidel. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $13.) The poems in Seidel's 14th book, dealing with such subjects as sexual prowess and the Bush administration, are ''as beguiling and magisterial as anything the septuagenarian jet-setter has written,'' our reviewer, Joel Brouwer, said. 
 WHAT PAUL MEANT, by Garry Wills. (Penguin, $14.) Wills turns the standard reading of early Christianity on its head by arguing that Paul, more than the four canonical Gospels, should be recognized as the most reliable guide to Jesus' teachings. He suggests that the Roman hierarchy in the Middle Ages denied the egalitarianism of Jesus' and Paul's intentions.
 THROUGH THE CHILDREN'S GATE: A Home in New York, by Adam Gopnik. (Vintage, $14.95.) Gopnik, a staff writer for The New Yorker, left Paris with his wife and children in late 2000 for the upper-middle-class Manhattan of play dates and private schools. He describes that world in these essays: ''In the end, ordinary life, sheltered from the abysmal winds of History, is what we all hope to preserve as long as the universe will allow.'' 
 VISUAL SHOCK: A History of Art Controversies in American Culture, by Michael Kammen. (Vintage, $16.95.) This well-researched study of ''the nature, diversity and persistence of major disputes generated by art'' since the 1830s raises questions about the expectations of art in a democratic society. Kammen, a professor of American history and culture at Cornell University, looks at public controversies over war memorials (from the Washington Monument to Maya Lin's commemoration of the Vietnam War) and public decency (from Thomas Eakins to Robert Mapplethorpe). One particularly sophisticated commentator on art controversies is Arthur C. Danto, an emeritus professor of philosophy at Columbia and The Nation's art critic. UNNATURAL WONDERS: Essays From the Gap Between Art and Life (Columbia University, $22.50), collects reviews written between 2000 and 2004. Danto discusses provocative postmodern superstars like Damien Hirst and Yoko Ono as well as several historical figures. 
 BRAVE ENEMIES, by Robert Morgan. (Shannon Ravenel/Algonquin, $13.95.) During the last year of the American Revolution, this novel's 16-year-old heroine murders the stepfather who raped her and takes to the western North Carolina road dressed as a boy. She falls in with a traveling preacher who discovers her true sex, marries her and is promptly forced into the British cavalry. They meet again at the site of an important clash in January 1781. Morgan ''writes terrifically well of battle,'' our reviewer, Will Blythe, said. 
 MADHOUSE: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine, by Andrew Scull. (Yale University, $18.) Henry Cotton, the director of Trenton State Hospital from 1907 to 1930, had a bizarre theory of insanity: that it was caused by bacterial infection. Soon he was removing not only his patients' teeth and tonsils but also their stomachs and colons. Although the death rate passed 30 percent, Cotton was protected by a powerful mentor who suppressed the evidence against him. ''Madhouse'' reads ''as much like a novel as it does a work of medical scholarship,'' Patrick McGrath wrote in the Book Review.
 THE TREE: A Natural History of What Trees Are, How They Live, and Why They Matter, by Colin Tudge. (Three Rivers, $14.95.) ''This book presents science not ... as a tribute to human cleverness and power, but truly in a spirit of reverence,'' Tudge tells us. His aim in describing the life of trees and the human debt to them is to encourage economic arrangements that foster conservation.
 DANGEROUS NATION, by Robert Kagan. (Vintage, $16.95.) Americans were never the innocents they imagined themselves, particularly in matters of foreign policy, according to Kagan, a trans-Atlantic fellow of the German Marshall Fund. In the first of two volumes on the United States as an international power, Kagan argues that from the first days of the Republic, America was a player on the world scene, and that domestic and foreign concerns were always intertwined. Anatol Lieven and John Hulsman also reject isolationism. In ETHICAL REALISM: A Vision for America's Role in the World (Vintage, $13.95), Lieven, a liberal, and Hulsman, a conservative, propose a return to the restraint and commitment to multilateral solutions that characterized cold war realism, and propose a peace based on the recognition that marketplace values are far more widely accepted than democratic ones. ''Any approach to foreign policy that hopes to create an intellectual consensus ... must embrace certain elements of both realism and morality,'' they write.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); HISTORY (89%); CHILDREN (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); RELIGION (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PHILOSOPHY (64%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



521 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; BROOKLYN-QUEENS UP CLOSE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: For Riders of a Stepchild Line, Even an 'F' Looks Good

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
THE culture of the victimhood designated on subway maps by a green line snaking from Queens to Brooklyn is well established. And so, when it comes to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's rider report card program, which solicits rider evaluations, there is little suspense. 
 ''Everybody knows what the rider report card on the G is going to be,'' said Teresa Toro, transportation chairwoman of Community Board 1 in Brooklyn. Indeed, there is gleeful expectation among some of the train's riders and advocates, from blogs (''Is the G an F?'') to civic groups, who, with regard to the line's pending grade, are generally hoping for the worst.
 Ms. Toro, for her part, has urged riders to candidly respond to the transportation authority on her blog Save the G, which takes its name from a coalition of community advocates in Brooklyn and Queens. For each line, the agency distributes paper report cards to riders at train stations for one week, and riders have additional time to fill out identical report cards online. The deadline for the G train was Thursday; Marisa Baldeo, an M.T.A. spokeswoman, said the results would be announced in December.
 Among G riders, the train cuts a tragic figure: It is the system's neglected stepchild, singularly destined never to reach Manhattan shores. That the G consists of 4 cars instead of the standard 8 or 10 only adds to its punch-line potential. A result, though, is that the very notion of including the G in the rider report card program, which extends to every line in the system, amounts to a boost of self-esteem for those who hope that a bad grade will spur improvements.
 ''For once,'' Ms. Toro said, ''the G is being measured right along with all the other lines.'' In the social sense, at least, the G train has arrived.
 Still, seasoned G train advocates emphasize that they have been voicing their concerns for years and that the line still has a long way to go. James Trent, chairman of the transportation committee of the Queens Civic Congress, a member of the Save the G coalition, said that given the G's eternal and much-publicized woes, he did not find the rider report card program particularly encouraging.
 ''I can't believe that they're waiting for responses on the card to find out what people think of the G,'' Mr. Trent said. ''They know that already.''
 The Straphangers Campaign, a rider advocacy group, has issued report cards on individual lines, based on M.T.A. statistics, since 1997. While the G ranked fifth among the 22 lines in the group's 2007 report, many argue that the line's quirks and variables make it difficult to evaluate, resulting in grade inflation.
 In the opinion of Gene Russianoff, a spokesman for the Straphangers Campaign, if the G train in its current incarnation were to disappear, its riders in all likelihood would happily let it slip into history. As Mr. Russianoff summed it up: ''Writers in Greenpoint and Williamsburg won't write poems about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''For once,'' says Teresa Toro, ''the G is being measured right along with all the other lines.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY SPARIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



522 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; OPEN SPACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Tax Defeat Spells Setback for Land Preservation in Brookhaven

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
AS the Nov. 6 local election fades in the memory, one result stands out -- a setback for open-space preservation plans in Brookhaven, Long Island's fastest-growing and second most populous town, and its largest geographically.
 Voters there rejected a 2 percent real estate transfer tax that would have provided more than $600 million for public land purchases. 
 The vote, which came as land owners queued up to sell to the town in anticipation of the new money, ran counter to a nearly unbroken string of public approvals of environmental spending initiatives in Suffolk and Nassau Counties. On Nov. 6 alone, Suffolk voters agreed to extend a quarter-penny environmental sales tax from 2013 to 2030, Southold voters approved a $4 million environmental bond, and Oyster Bay voters approved a $60 million environmental bond. 
 The Brookhaven tax would have been paid by buyers and would have exempted the first $150,000 on land purchases and the first $250,000 on home purchases. First-time home buyers would have been exempted entirely.
 The defeat of the tax followed an advertising and Internet campaign by real estate and development groups that depicted it as an unfair burden on buyers and sellers that would further depress the housing market and hurt the local economy.
 The election results left the transfer tax confined to the five East End towns of Southampton, East Hampton, Riverhead, Southold and Shelter Island, where voters approved it in 1998 and extended its expiration date from 2010 to 2030 in two subsequent votes. Borrowing against future revenues from the tax, those towns report spending more than $400 million in proceeds to preserve more than 6,000 acres. 
 The Brookhaven tax, which 61 percent of the voters rejected, would have run until 2025 and allowed similar upfront borrowing. By the town's estimate, the tax would have provided $660 million to help buy a large portion of the 12,000 acres that the town, county and environmentalists want to preserve. 
 An April report by the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, an environmental group in Riverhead, estimated that $3 billion, including proceeds from a Brookhaven transfer tax, would be needed over the next several years to preserve 35,000 acres of open spaces and farmland on Long Island that would otherwise be developed.
 The society's executive director, Richard Amper, a Brookhaven resident, called the campaign against the tax ''a shameless fraud by the same Realtors and developers that caused overdevelopment and intolerable taxes.'' He said developing the land that the transfer tax would have preserved would result in $200 million in new property taxes for schools, roads, police protection and other services. 
 Tax opponents, including the Long Island Board of Realtors, the New York State Association of Realtors and the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers' group in Hauppauge, said an environmental bond was fairer than a transfer tax because it spread the cost of land preservation evenly. 
 ''It is only the method of funding that we disagreed with,'' said Nigel A. Rose, an associate broker at Coach Realtors at Setauket Harbor, who was active in the campaign against the transfer tax. ''We wholeheartedly agree we have to preserve open space for generations to come.'' 
 John L. Turner, the director of environmental protection for Brookhaven, said proceeds from a $100 million environmental bond that town voters overwhelmingly approved in 2004 had been spent or committed. He said the town was ''down to pocket change'' for open space and would be unable to team up with the county or the state on purchases like the 254-acre Mastic Woods, a top acquisition target.
 MaryAnn Johnston of Manor Park, the president of the Affiliated Brookhaven Civic Organization, said proposed development in the woods, at the headwaters of the Forge River, was now more likely to advance. The river has been heavily contaminated by seepage from septic systems, officials said.
 ''If we can't save the woods,'' she said, ''it's unlikely we can reverse the pollution in the river.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAINTED WATERS: MaryAnn Johnston, president of the Affiliated Brookhaven Civic Organization, at the head of the Forge River, which officials say has been contaminated by seepage from septic systems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SALES TAX (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL F JOHNSTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



523 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SCALES BACK POLITICAL GOALS FOR IRAQI UNITY

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Alissa J. Rubin from Baghdad. Michael R. Gordon contributed from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
With American military successes outpacing political gains in Iraq, the Bush administration has lowered its expectation of quickly achieving major steps toward unifying the country, including passage of a long-stymied plan to share oil revenues and holding regional elections.
 Instead, administration officials say they are focusing their immediate efforts on several more limited but achievable goals in the hope of convincing Iraqis, foreign governments and Americans that progress is being made toward the political breakthroughs that the military campaign of the past 10 months was supposed to promote.
 The short-term American targets include passage of a $48 billion Iraqi budget, something the Iraqis say they are on their way to doing anyway; renewing the United Nations mandate that authorizes an American presence in the country, which the Iraqis have done repeatedly before; and passing legislation to allow thousands of Baath Party members from Saddam Hussein's era to rejoin the government. A senior Bush administration official described that goal as largely symbolic since rehirings have been quietly taking place already. 
 Bush administration officials have not abandoned their larger goals and emphasize the importance of reaching them eventually. They say that even modest steps, taken soon, could set the stage for more progress, in the same manner that this year's troop ''surge'' opened the way, unexpectedly, for drawing Sunni tribesmen to the American side. 
 A senior official said the administration was intensifying its pressure on the Iraqi government to produce some concrete signs of political progress. 
 ''If we can show progress outside of the security sector alone, that will go a long way to demonstrate that we are in fact on a sustainable path to stability in Iraq,'' the senior official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
 On Saturday, Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador to Baghdad, said that the military had created an opportunity for progress, adding that there were some indications that Iraqis on the local as well as the national level want to move forward. But he cautioned against expecting quick results on the core issues. 
 ''We are seeing encouraging signs of movement,'' he said, but added, ''This is going to be a long, hard slog.'' 
 ''It is going to be one thing at a time, maybe two things at a time, we hope with increasing momentum,'' he said. ''It is a long-term process.''
 The White House has been elated by the drop in violence since the increase in American forces, now 162,000 troops. Public comments by President Bush and his aides, though, have been muted, reflecting frustration at the lack of political progress, a continuation of a pattern in which intense American efforts to promote broader reconciliation have proved largely fruitless.
 There have been signs that American influence over Iraqi politics is dwindling after the recent improvements in security -- which remain incomplete, as shown by a deadly bombing Friday in Baghdad. While Bush officials once said they aimed to secure ''reconciliation'' among Iraq's deeply divided religious, ethnic and sectarian groups, some officials now refer to their goal as ''accommodation.'' 
 ''We can't pass their legislation,'' a senior American official in Baghdad said. ''We can't make them like each other. We can't even make them talk to each other. Well, sometimes we can. But we can help them execute their budget.''
 Ambassador Crocker drew a distinction between the effectiveness of the American military buildup in quelling violence and the influence the United States could bring to bear at a political level.
 ''The political stuff does not lend itself to sending out a couple of battalions to help the Iraqi's pass legislation,'' he said.
 Still, he said, there were some positive signs that Iraqis were interested in making headway on some thorny issues. Provincial governors, he said, were pressing for a law to define their powers. ''We are past the point where it is an American agenda,'' the ambassador said. ''It is what needs to be done in Iraqi terms.''
 Officials in Washington and in Baghdad share the view that military gains alone are not enough to overcome the deep distrust among Iraqi factions caused by nearly five decades of dictatorship and war. And in both capitals there are leaders who continue to hold out hope for broad political gains, eventually.
 ''We need a grand bargain among all the groups,'' said one senior member of Iraq's government, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
 But with that not yet in sight, Bush administration officials said they hoped approval of a few initial steps might lead to more substantive agreements next year, including provincial elections, which the White House wants to see held before Mr. Bush leaves office in less than 14 months. 
 The prospect of such elections has been politically delicate because of the fear that some regions, like Shiite-dominated southern Iraq, are most likely to vote for leaders who support stronger regional governments at the expense of the Baghdad administration. 
 While one Bush administration official called the renewed pressure on Baghdad a ''political surge'' after the increase in troop levels this year, most of what Washington is seeking appears to reflect a diminished and more realistic set of expectations after months of little political progress.
 The troop increase at the beginning of the year was intended to create the conditions to improve Iraq's political stability, measured by so-called benchmarks, including a broad agreement on sharing oil revenues.
 But those benchmarks remain largely unfulfilled. The administration's critics in Congress have cited the lack of progress toward those benchmarks as evidence that the White House is on the wrong track and ought to begin a rapid pullout of combat forces.
 Perhaps the most achievable of the administration's short-term targets, American and Iraqi officials said, is legislation that would allow thousands of members of the Hussein-era Baath Party, most of them Sunnis, to return to government positions.
 A senior administration official described that legislation as largely symbolic -- since the Shiite-dominated government had begun to accommodate some Sunni officials in practice -- but important in that it would at last signal some progress, capitalizing on the relative lull in violence. 
 Other immediate steps the Bush administration is pressing the Iraqi government to take include passing a budget, $48 billion for the coming year, and again renewing the United Nations mandate for the American troop presence before it expires at the end of the year. 
 In Baghdad, Iraqi officials indicated that the various parties, which like much of the country are defined largely by sect or ethnicity, remained far apart on the more difficult issues of sharing power and revenues. But some seemed surprised by the idea that the Bush administration would apply more pressure. 
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's political adviser, Sadiq al-Rikabi, said none was needed to persuade the Iraqi leaders and Parliament to approve a budget. ''Every state needs a budget,'' he said. ''It's impossible to function without a budget. It does not need any push from anyone.''
 At the same time, though, he expressed an appreciation for the Bush administration's effort to keep all sides talking.
 American officials note that as routine as it may seem to pass a budget, the Iraqis did not quickly adopt the current one. 
 Although the White House no longer faces the immediate prospect of losing crucial political support for the war -- because the opponents lack the votes needed in Congress to force a policy change -- the imperative for political progress remains, if only because of the American elections in less than a year. 
 Despite the reduction in violence, with attacks now down to levels last seen in early 2006, some Democrats in Congress have continued to press for a timeline for a withdrawal. Most recently, the House tried to tie a deadline to a $50 billion war spending bill, although that proposal died in the Senate. 
 When Congress debated the war earlier this year, the administration pushed hard for the Iraqis to approve some of the legislation. Several times, for example, the law on dispensing oil revenues, which are now surging because of high world oil prices, appeared on the brink of adoption, only to stall.
 One of the immediate American concerns is getting Iraq to request extending the United Nations mandate. In Baghdad, a senior Iraqi government official said that the extension would not be a problem, but that there was little progress in negotiating the longer-term agreements on a ''strategic partnership'' with the United States.
 ''It's the status of forces agreement that we have to start on,'' the official said. That agreement, although not an issue until 2009 or later, is a far more delicate matter because it will frame the future military relationship between the countries.
 The most important thing the Americans can do is keep Iraq's political blocs -- Shiite and Sunni Arab and Kurds -- talking to one another and help them understand legislation now being debated, several Iraqi politicians said. Only with concrete information, they said, could rumors be dispelled that legislation might help or hurt certain groups. 
 ''So far, the activities of the American Embassy are a bit limited in this regard,'' said Qassim Daoud, an independent Shiite in Parliament, who served as a minister for security in the government of Ayad Allawi before Iraq regain its own sovereignty.
 Earlier this month, the White House dispatched several senior aides to Baghdad to work with the Iraqis on specific legislative areas. They include the under secretary of state for economic, energy and agricultural affairs, Reuben Jeffery III, who is working on the budget and oil law; the State Department's senior Iraq adviser, David M. Satterfield, who is focused on the elections and de-Baathification law; and Brett McGurk, the National Security Council's Iraq director, who is pressing for the United Nations mandate and a longer security agreement. All have been meeting with a variety of officials and party leaders across Iraq, a senior administration official said.
 American officials in Baghdad appear to understand the limitations they face and are focusing on pragmatic goals like helping the Iraqi government spend the money in its budget. That, officials in both countries said, could do more than anything else to ease tensions and build support for the national government. 
 ''I think reconciliation will eventually come,'' a senior Bush administration official said, but added, ''That's a long way down the path.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



524 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Think Global, Read Local

BYLINE: By LEE SMITH. 
Lee Smith is the author, most recently, of the novel ''On Agate Hill.''

DATELINE: Hillsborough, N.C. 

 BODY:
 BRIGHT leaves blow into my windshield as I drive up twisty little Route 88 through the Blue Ridge Mountains to the school where I will work with eighth graders as a part of western North Carolina's Together We Read initiative. Now in its sixth year, the program engages thousands of people in reading and discussing one book with regional connections, chosen by popular vote. This year, I happened to write it.
 In the novel, a schoolteacher comes to teach in a one-room school in remote Ashe County during the 1880s. Now here I am in Ashe County myself, visiting the crackerjack Ashe County Middle School. I'm struck by this coincidence. I am also dazzled by the range of events involved in this imaginative program. 
 ''No holds barred!'' announces Rob Neufeld, a librarian by training and an impresario by inclination. ''This is an attempt to reach 100 percent of people of every age, in every community in western North Carolina, and to find any way possible to achieve that end. We are truly a populist program.'' 
 He lists dramatic presentations, bluegrass shows, folklore and oral history projects, hikes and art contests along with readings, lectures and discussions at 100 sites in 21 counties.
 Reading as a group activity rather than a private act has of course become a national phenomenon, with Oprah and Harry Potter leading the way. Book clubs meet everywhere -- on your TV, in your church, your workplace, in your living room -- arguably, keeping literary publishing alive. The National Endowment for the Arts, which last week delivered its latest dismal report on the state of reading in America, has instituted its own program, the Big Read. Participating cities have shared such books as Harper Lee's ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' Ray Bradbury's ''Fahrenheit 451'' and Zora Neale Hurston's ''Their Eyes Were Watching God.'' 
 That's all well and good, but I think it's vital that in western North Carolina we've taken a more local approach. ''One of the most important functions of literature throughout history is to enable people to share and recreate a vision of themselves,'' says Mr. Neufeld. ''We are using the books to continually reshape our own epic. When we read Ron Rash's novel 'Saints at the River' last year, we considered what role the rivers have played in our lives, and what's happening to them now.'' 
 North Carolina's poet laureate, Kaye Byer, recently led book group discussions in Sylva (where only four people showed up on a rainy night) and to a larger group in Cashiers. ''I want to show them all that their own region has its own literature,'' Ms. Byer says. ''They have writers here who can give them a voice, who can tell their story with authenticity. The place speaks through its writers, and the writers speak for the place. Yet we are losing our places -- the mountains are under assault. I feel a sense of urgency about it.'' 
 Pollution, drought, drugs, irresponsible development and devastating new technologies like mountaintop-removal mining threaten the entire Appalachian region. Yet there is a growing sense of citizenship, too, a new pride of place. 
 When I was growing up in these mountains, I was always taught that culture was someplace else, and that when the time came, I'd be sent off to get some. Now everybody here realizes that we don't have to go anyplace else to ''get culture'' -- we've got our own, and we've had it all along. A broadening new economic revitalization is indicated by the buzzwords ''cultural tourism'' and ''heritage tourism.'' We're proud of who we are.
 My Ashe County middle school students are already getting this message. One, Hannah, writes: ''If I could go anywhere, I would go sit in the old wooden rocking chair on my grandfather's porch. He is 95. I feel like I can just be myself with him.'' She loves ''the smell of tobacco, the sound of his voice.''
 Holly, who is growing up in a family of bluegrass musicians, likes to ''go down in the basement after a long picking session ''and just lay on the floor ... even after everyone has left, the life from the music is still there.'' 
 Twenty-seven out of 48 students write that their ''most special'' place is outdoors: ''down by the creek'' (Zeb), ''under a giant, sheltering rhododendron'' (Glenn) or ''on the hill behind my house,'' where Caroline already feels ''a sense of time passing, of trying to preserve this place and this time.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BOOK CLUBS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); POETRY (76%); WRITERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORY (71%); RIVERS (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FOLKLORE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



525 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; HOUSING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Amid Affluence, the Hidden Homeless

BYLINE: By ANNIE CORREAL

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD 

 BODY:
 ON the border of Garden City and Hempstead, where handsome homes with manicured lawns give way to a crumbling housing project, sits a large, empty house with an unusual guardian. 
 A homeless man named Charles Tegeler, 47, has slept in the boarded-up, burned-out house on the corner of Hilton Avenue and Jackson Street since August, when the family that owned the house was forced out by an electrical fire. He wards off intruders by night and does repair work for the owner, Dennis Bassett, by day. 
 Mr. Bassett said that he had hired Mr. Tegeler to do odd jobs over the past two years and that he lets him sleep on his properties because he wants to keep at least one man off the streets. 
 ''No one is looking at the fact that people are living in alleys downtown,'' said Mr. Bassett, a real estate agent now living in Garden City. ''No one wants to look at that because life is too good on Long Island, because they can go home and lock their doors.'' 
 Although homelessness is more visible in towns like Hempstead, where people huddle in alleys and places like the loading dock outside National Wholesale Liquidators, there are homeless people hidden throughout Long Island. And the problem is growing, say those who work with the homeless.
 ''I've seen an upward trend and I am concerned about it,'' said Joan Noguera, executive director of the nonprofit Nassau-Suffolk Coalition for the Homeless. 
 Any trend is hard to quantify because the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development applied new guidelines this year for counting the homeless. Only those living in emergency shelters, transitional housing, abandoned buildings or on the street and who identified themselves as homeless could be counted. 
 At the beginning of this year, the coalition's census of unsheltered homeless people reported 781 homeless people in Nassau County and 1,728 in Suffolk County. 
 This year, the coalition received $10 million from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to distribute among about 40 agencies for homeless shelters, food pantries and homeless intervention. 
 ''But the numbers only tell a piece of the story,'' Ms. Noguera said. 
 On Long Island, the problem of homelessness can be camouflaged by its general affluence and by the system that takes in the homeless -- shelters on the Island are small, mostly unmarked homes, run by churches or nonprofit groups, that resemble boarding houses. The homeless population is also spread out -- living in campgrounds and parks and on beaches -- and is harder to see and to count. 
 ''They may be hidden, but they're there,'' Ms. Noguera said. 
 Homelessness is more widespread on Long Island than it appears, said Samuel Miller, regional interagency homelessness coordinator for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The homeless include seasonal workers, military veterans, people discharged from hospitals, domestic violence victims and youths leaving foster care, he said.
 ''People don't realize who the homeless are,'' said Mr. Miller, who lives in Suffolk County. ''What we see and what is out there are two different things.'' 
 In Suffolk, officials have struggled to house the mentally ill since three major psychiatric hospitals closed in the 1990s. ''We had to pick up the pieces at our own expense,'' County Executive Steve Levy said. ''It placed a tremendous burden on the county, but we have done a pretty good job in trying circumstances.''
 In 2003, the average number of families living in motels was 112; in 2007, it has been reduced to an average of one, meaning that sometimes there is none, according to the Suffolk County executive's office. People are instead housed in shelters with cooking facilities and access to health care and job training. 
 Nassau is developing a 10-year plan to house the chronically homeless, as part of an effort being undertaken by 320 counties nationwide. The goal is to get people in permanent housing, rather than in motels or shelters. 
 ''Emergency housing is important, but you have to get to the root of the problem,'' County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi said. 
 Using federal, state and county dollars, Nassau will spend $5.8 million for emergency shelter in 2007. It has budgeted $2.1 million for Housing and Urban Development programs, including a homeless intervention program, over the next five years. 
 Many homeless are not physically on the street, but, like Mr. Tegeler, are in places unfit for living, from houses without basic facilities to barns. Others, including working families, live doubled or tripled up with other families or stay with friends and relatives.
 They rely on other help, too.
 Last Saturday, as temperatures fell, Hempstead's homeless and elderly flocked for a free Thanksgiving dinner at the South Hempstead Baptist Church. Down the hill, about 50 laborers lined up in an empty lot near the Home Depot for steak served off a grill by Victor Rodriguez, a prison chaplain based in Hempstead who had gathered donations from restaurants and grocery stores to feed out-of-work laborers, several of them homeless. 
 Homelessness is widespread among low-income families on the Island because of high rents and a lack of rental property, officials say; only 17 percent of properties are rentals, according to the Long Island Index, an annual study of local economic and social trends, compiled for the nonprofit Rauch Foundation. 
 To prevent families from becoming homeless, organizations like the Nassau-Suffolk Coalition provide temporary assistance, but only up to $1,000. The average monthly rent on the Island is $1,600 , Ms. Noguera said. 
 Returning veterans are finding themselves homeless, too. Senator Charles E. Schumer's office estimated that in 2007, 2,000 homeless veterans live on Long Island. 
 John A. Sperandeo, chief of social work services at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center at Northport, said it can be hard for those in the military to save money for a down payment or for rent, and many veterans return with new mental and physical disabilities. The Northport hospital runs a homeless program with the Salvation Army that has served 447 veterans this year.
 Advocates for the homeless like Jay T. Korth, who runs Catholic Charities' housing program on the Island, want more housing for lower-income workers built to help stem the number of people becoming homeless. ''We need more housing options, we need expansion of what's there,'' he said.
 But construction is costly, there is little land to build on, and zoning in most towns makes it hard to build multifamily houses for the working class and working poor, Mr. Korth said. 
 ''The future doesn't look very good for Long Island, housing-wise,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article and an accompanying picture caption last Sunday about homelessness on Long Island misstated the location of a National Wholesale Liquidators store at whose loading dock homeless people sometimes congregate. It is in the Village of West Hempstead, not Hempstead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HUDDLED: Homeless people find a spot on a loading dock of the National Wholesale Liquidators in Hempstead. (pg. 6)
 ON THEIR OWN: Above, in Hempstead, day laborers get a lunch prepared by Victor Rodriguez, a chaplain. Top, Charles Tegeler wards off intruders and makes repairs on a burned-out house in Hempstead in exchange for a place to sleep. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); CITIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); FIRES (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



526 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Referrals to Mortgage Brokers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHEN home buyers need suggestions about where to find a good mortgage broker, they often turn to real estate agents, but, as with any recommendations, these referrals should be approached carefully. 
 Borrowers are often not aware that the biggest national and regional real estate brokerages, like Century 21 or Coldwell Banker, have mortgage brokerage operations of their own.
 Mortgage brokers say real estate agents sometimes steer clients to in-house mortgage brokers without making such connections clear, thereby leading inexperienced buyers into costlier loans than they could have found if they had shopped around. ''These business arrangements are not necessarily illegal,'' said Marc S. Savitt, the president-elect of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers, a trade group. 
 Lenders are required to disclose such relationships early in the mortgage process, in ''good faith estimate'' documents.
 But mortgage industry executives say that even when those relationships are disclosed, borrowers often do not understand why this matters. One answer is that when a company knows a prospective borrower is not comparison shopping, it doesn't have to make its best offer.
 Real estate companies cannot legally compensate an agent for referring a client to the company's in-house mortgage business, said Neil B. Garfinkel, a real estate lawyer with AGMB Law, a Manhattan-based firm. But they can show their gratitude in other ways. Brokers can treat agents to lunch or a baseball game, for instance, as long as their largess is not directly tied to a referral. 
 Mortgage brokers complain -- privately, in most cases, since real estate agents are a crucial source of business -- that agents often blur the lines between what is acceptable and what is not.
 Mr. Savitt of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers said one real estate company circulated a memorandum to its agents requiring them to refer clients to its in-house brokerage. Another company rewarded the top referring real estate agents with scrip that could be converted into vacations, he said.
 Brokers affiliated with real estate agencies or home builders are no better or worse than independent mortgage brokers, industry executives say. But if the broker is paying agents an under-the-table referral fee, they say, the broker will probably make up for that fee by charging the borrower higher rates or fees.
 Mortgage industry analysts estimate that more than 80 percent of home buyers follow their real estate agent's recommendation when choosing a lender.
 The result is often not bad, of course. According to a recent survey by J. D. Power & Associates, a majority of borrowers who found loans through their home builders' lending subsidiaries said they were satisfied.
 Bob Stone, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker based in Fairfield, Conn., said he gave borrowers the names of three mortgage companies to consider, including Coldwell Banker's own mortgage subsidiary. But, he said, he gains no advantage from that gesture of corporate loyalty. He added that he would not refer clients to any broker who would not deliver a good service. ''I want repeat business,'' he said.
 Debra Killian, president of Charter Oak Lending Group in Danbury, Conn., said that when weighing a broker's recommendation, borrowers can protect themselves against possible conflicts of interest by asking questions. ''Borrowers should ask the agent if the person they're referring works for an affiliated company,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART Chart shows line graph for INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES 1-year Treasury rate(Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BROKERS (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); BASEBALL (50%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



527 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Just Off Insular Senate Floor, Life of the Uninsured Intrudes

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
When senators debate health care, they usually speak in abstract terms about soaring health costs and the plight of the uninsured.
 But just 20 feet from the Senate chamber is a young man who knows those problems all too well from personal experience. The man, Sergio A. Olaya, runs the Capitol elevators on which the senators ride. Whenever the Senate is in session, he is on duty. 
 Mr. Olaya, 21, is struggling with $255,000 of medical bills incurred by his mother before she died in April from an aggressive form of brain cancer. 
 A local hospital and its collection agency have been hounding him in an effort to collect from his mother's estate, Mr. Olaya said. To pay the bills, he is selling the Maryland home where he lived with his mother, Clara Ines Olaya, 61. 
 His experience highlights the problems of the uninsured, from which members of Congress are usually insulated. The leading Democratic presidential candidates say all Americans should have coverage as good as what Congress has. 
 As a government employee, Mr. Olaya has health insurance. But his mother, like 47 million other Americans, was uninsured. 
 ''I wonder how many senators have been in the elevator with Sergio, talked to him, shared a smile with him, but had no idea of the terrible burden he and his mother were carrying,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Senate Democratic whip, who learned of Mr. Olaya's problems from an aide.
 In an interview, Mr. Olaya said: ''I'm just a college kid. I don't have financial support from anyone. Paying $255,000 for medical bills derails my ability to pay for college.''
 Senators have access to a wide range of insurance options through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Congress has its own ''attending physician'' -- actually, a team of 5 doctors and 14 nurses who work in the Capitol and nearby Congressional office buildings. Lawmakers can fill prescriptions at a small pharmacy in the Capitol. For more serious problems, they can use nearby military hospitals.
 But Congress is far from agreement on any comprehensive proposals to help the uninsured. Even legislation to cover children has been caught up in a furious battle with President Bush over the proper role of government in providing insurance.
 Senators are not normally exposed to the fears that strike many workers as employers reduce health benefits and insurers increase premiums year after year. Annual increases of 20 percent or more are not unusual for small businesses. The National Federation of Independent Business, a lobby for small business owners, says health costs are their top concern. 
 Since 2000, the number of uninsured, as reported by the Census Bureau, has increased by 8.6 million, or 22 percent. Some private studies suggest that one in three Americans under the age of 65 may have been uninsured at some time in the last two years.
 ''The truth is, almost every family is at risk because of a fraying health care safety net,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''Almost all of us could be one pink slip, one election, one bad diagnosis or one serious accident away from a health and economic disaster. This affects Sergio, a member of our Senate family. It affects all families.''
 One lawmaker, Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, has refused to accept the health insurance available to members of Congress. He says he will not take it until all Americans have access to affordable coverage. 
 Former Senator John Edwards, a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, said, ''There is no excuse for politicians in Washington having health care when America has no health care.'' 
 Mr. Edwards has been conveying that message to Iowa voters in 30-second television commercials. On his first day in office, he said, he will ''submit legislation to end coverage for the president, all members of Congress and all senior political appointees in the legislative and executive branches of government on July 20, 2009 -- unless Congress has enacted universal health insurance.''
 One of his rivals for the nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, said she would ''give all Americans the same set of insurance options that their members of Congress have.'' This, she said, could be done ''without any new bureaucracy.''
 Another Democratic presidential contender, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, said that under his proposal for universal coverage, everyone would have access to ''health care that is as good as the health care that I have as a member of Congress.''
 While waiting for such coverage, many Americans will wrestle with debts like those facing Mr. Olaya, the Senate elevator operator. He had been a student at the University of Delaware, but said he would not return until he paid his mother's medical bills.
 His mother, an expert on health and nutrition, was born in Colombia, received a master's degree from Stanford in 1981 and became a United States citizen in 1994. She had health insurance in most of her jobs over the last 20 years, at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the United States Agency for International Development, Unicef and other organizations. 
 But she had been unemployed and uninsured since December.
 Mrs. Olaya had applied for a new federal job. When the job offer finally came in March, her son said, she had just suffered a stroke and could not get out of bed to answer the telephone. In another month or two, she might have had health coverage through her new job. In another four years, she would have been eligible for Medicare.
 ''Instead,'' Senator Durbin said, ''she had the bad luck and bad timing to fall through one of the gaping holes in America's unraveling health care safety net. Now her only child, her son, is paying the price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergio Olaya, near a Capitol elevator, said he would not return to college until the medical bills of his uninsured mother were paid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (85%); INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); CANCER (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (70%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); BRAIN CANCER (55%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



528 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: A Congested Economy

BYLINE: By SAM STALEY. 
Sam Staley is the director of urban and land use policy at the Reason Foundation in Los Angeles and the co-author of ''The Road More Traveled: Why the Congestion Crisis Matters More Than You Think, and What We Can Do About It.''

DATELINE: Bellbrook, Ohio 

 BODY:
 CONGESTION is slowly strangling the New York region's economy, and the recent misguided attempts to rein it in by federal and local officials are proof that a fresh approach is needed. 
 Recently, the Federal Aviation Administration threw down the gauntlet on air traffic congestion, continuing caps on flights into and out of La Guardia Airport and threatening caps for Kennedy International Airport. This is like saying the problem with congestion is too many people want to come to (or through) New York City, so the solution is to keep them out.
 Similarly, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's politically bold congestion pricing plan attacks road congestion by diverting travelers from cars to mass transit -- again, telling people to stay out. 
 Both proposals fail to grapple with the root of the congestion crisis on land and in the air: the transportation network's physical infrastructure has not kept pace with demand. And the failure to come to grips with this situation will have significant long-term consequences for the region's economy. 
 According to the Texas Transportation Institute, a research group associated with Texas A&M University, traffic congestion already represents a $7.4 billion economic loss to the New York area's economy. The F.A.A.'s flight caps would drastically reduce access to the region's major airports, limiting access to the world's most important financial center and air traffic volume to levels not seen since the 1960s. 
 These claims may seem exaggerated. Traditionally, economists have claimed that a certain degree of congestion is efficient because the costs of eliminating congestion might not exceed the benefits. And some urban planners believe that congestion is actually good for the economy because it forces people to take public transportation and shop locally. Indeed, if congestion is so terrible, why aren't the economic consequences more visible? 
 But the problem is that the region continues to grow, and congestion's negative economic effects continue to broaden. The New York City and Northern New Jersey area, which includes Long Island and Westchester County, is expected to add at least 3.5 million people by 2030, on top of the 18 million people already there. This growth is not sustainable if congestion continues to go unchecked and elected officials continue to opt for blunt policy choices like caps that fail to address the need to expand capacity.
 The metropolitan New York, northern New Jersey and southwestern Connecticut region produces as much as it does because it taps into entrepreneurial talent and other resources unavailable in large concentrations elsewhere. This access to labor and resources gives it the foundation for sustained economic growth through increasing productivity. 
 The results are staggering. According to a 2005 ranking of the world's largest urban economies by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the tristate area, for example, churns out $1.1 trillion worth of goods and services each year.
 But if congestion continues, eventually it will eat away at economic productivity in the region. Congestion reduces the pool of resources available to businesses and workers by reducing access to jobs and employees. A 30-minute commute to work might become 45 minutes or an hour, pushing the job outside a worker's ''opportunity circle,'' which is the amount of time a typical worker is willing to travel to a job. 
 Productivity can compensate for the economic drag of congestion but only to a certain point. If congestion becomes too severe, the economy begins to fragment, which means that businesses drawing on a large metropolitan labor pool will be forced to tap into only those who live within a certain time and distance to the job. A fragmented economy hurts productivity. 
 It's already happening in the region. The Partnership for New York City, a business group, estimates that eliminating excess traffic congestion would add as much as $4 billion and 52,000 jobs to the regional economy. Congestion drains the region's manufacturing sector of $2 billion in revenue and 8,674 jobs. Wholesale trade takes a congestion hit worth $1.3 billion in increased operating costs. 
 In a world where New York is facing increasing competition from cities like London, Paris, Tokyo and Beijing, the economically debilitating effects of air and traffic congestion can no longer be ignored. Competitive margins are becoming thinner and thinner in an increasingly global economy, and congestion is a deadweight loss that needs to be addressed sooner rather than later. 
 Fortunately solutions exist for both traffic and air congestion. A crucial first step is to adopt congestion pricing in which toll rates are used to maximize travel speeds, not keep cars out of specific locations at certain times of the day. For example tolls should be highest during peak travel times but should fall during times of the day when demand for the same roadway is less. 
 The same principle can be applied to airports. At the moment, take-off rights, landing rights and runway slots are allocated based on a ''use it or lose it rule.'' Landing fees are based on aircraft weight, not the airline's willingness to pay for using a certain airport. Congestion pricing would allow airlines to bid for slots based on their desire to have access to the runways of airports during busiest travel periods of the day.
 But even managing the system more efficiently doesn't compensate for the need to add more capacity to meet travel demand. This is why the F.A.A. rules are so draconian. Rather than recognize the need to add new runway capacity to meet higher travel demand, the regulatory hammer is being used to try to reduce demand to meet existing capacity. Caps put the solution upside down. The policy goal should be to increase mobility (and access), not reduce it. 
 If we are willing to make the policy changes necessary, the days of living with congestion in the air and on our roadways can be over. More important, in today's global economy, the optimal level of congestion may in fact be zero despite the protests of some planners and old-school economists. At a minimum, perhaps we need to plan for a world where speed and mobility take their legitimate place as pillars of a productive urban economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); RANKINGS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE (55%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



529 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1925 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Health Care

 BODY:
The relentless, decades-long rise in the cost of health care has left many Americans struggling to pay their medical bills. Workers complain that they cannot afford high premiums for health insurance. Patients forgo recommended care rather than pay the out-of-pocket costs. Employers are cutting back or eliminating health benefits, forcing millions more people into the ranks of the uninsured. And state and federal governments strain to meet the expanding costs of public programs like Medicaid and Medicare. 
 Health care costs are far higher in the United States than in any other advanced nation, whether measured in total dollars spent, as a percentage of the economy, or on a per capita basis. And health costs here have been rising significantly faster than the overall economy or personal incomes for more than 40 years, a trend that cannot continue forever. 
 It is the worst long-term fiscal crisis facing the nation, and it demands a solution, but finding one will not be easy or palatable. 
 The Causes
 Varied and Deep-Rooted. Contrary to popular beliefs, this is not a problem driven mainly by the aging of the baby boom generation, or the high cost of prescription drugs, or medical malpractice litigation that spawns defensive medicine. Those issues often dominate political discourse, but they have played relatively minor roles in driving up medical spending in this country and abroad. The major causes are much more deep-seated and far harder to root out. 
 Almost all economists would agree that the main driver of high medical spending here is our wealth. We are richer than other countries and so willing to spend more. But authoritative analyses have found that we spend well above what mere wealth would predict. 
 This is mostly because we pay hospitals and doctors more than most other countries do. We rely more on costly specialists, who overuse advanced technologies, like CT scans and M.R.I. machines, and who resort to costly surgical or medical procedures a lot more than doctors in other countries do. Perverse insurance incentives entice doctors and patients to use expensive medical services more than is warranted. And our fragmented array of insurers and providers eats up a lot of money in administrative costs, marketing expenses and profits that do not afflict government-run systems abroad.
 Does It Matter? If citizens of an extremely wealthy nation like the United States want to spend more on health care and less on a third car, a new computer or a vacation home, what's wrong with that? By some measures, Americans are getting good value. Studies by reputable economists have concluded that spending on such advanced treatments as cardiac drugs, devices and surgery; neonatal care for low-birth-weight infants; and mental health drugs have more than paid for themselves by extending lives and improving their quality.
 But if health care spending continues on its same trajectory, the United States will reach the point -- probably several decades from now -- where every penny of the annual increase in gross domestic product would have to go for health care. There would be less and less money for other things, like education, environmental protection, scientific research and national security, that may be equally or more important to the well-being of society.
 Governmental budgets will face the crisis even sooner. States are already complaining that they have to crimp other vital activities, like education, to meet soaring Medicaid costs. And federal spending on Medicare and Medicaid is surging upward at rates that will cause the deficit to soar. That means politicians will have to raise taxes, severely cut a wide range of other governmental programs, or chop back the health programs themselves.
 The question is: What can be done to lower both the high level of health care spending and its high rate of increase from year to year?
 The Solutions
 Geography. Pioneering studies by researchers at Dartmouth have shown enormous disparities in expenditures on health care from one region to another with no discernible difference in health outcomes. Doctors in high-cost areas use hospitals, costly technology and platoons of consulting physicians a lot more often than doctors in low-cost areas, yet their patients, on average, fare no better. There are hints that they may even do worse because they pick up infections in the hospital and because having a horde of doctors can mean no one is in charge.
 If the entire nation could bring its costs down to match the lower-spending regions, the country could cut perhaps 20 to 30 percent off its health care bill, a tremendous saving. That would require changing the long- ingrained practices of the medical profession. Public and private insurers might need to refuse coverage for high-cost care that adds little value.
 Stick to What Works. The sad truth is that less than half of all medical care in the United States is supported by good evidence that it works, according to estimates cited by the Congressional Budget Office. If doctors had better information on which treatments work best for which patients, and whether the benefits were commensurate with the costs, needless treatment could be junked, the savings could be substantial, and patient care would surely improve. It could take a decade, or several, to conduct comparative-effectiveness studies, modify relevant laws, and change doctors' behavior. 
 Managed Care. For a brief period in the 1990s it looked as if health maintenance organizations competing for patients and carefully managing their care might bring down costs and improve quality at the same time. The H.M.O.'s did help restrain costs for a few years. The problem was, doctors and patients hated the system, management became much looser, and the upsurge in costs resumed. Managed care techniques are creeping back into some health plans, especially for services apt to be overused, but too heavy a hand would most likely produce another backlash.
 Information Technologies. The American health care system lags well behind other sectors of the economy -- and behind foreign medical systems -- in adopting computers, electronic health records and information-sharing technologies that can greatly boost productivity. There is little doubt that widespread computerization could greatly reduce the paperwork burden on doctors and hospitals, head off medication errors, and reduce the costly repetition of diagnostic tests as patients move from one doctor to another. Without an infusion of capital, the transition from paper records is not apt to happen very quickly. 
 Prevention. Everyone seems to be hoping that preventive medicine -- like weight control, exercise, better nutrition, smoking cessation, regular checkups, aggressive screening and judicious use of drugs to reduce risks -- will not only improve health but also lower costs in the long run. Preventive medicine actually costs money -- somebody has to spend time counseling patients and screening them for disease -- and it is not clear how soon, or even whether, substantial savings will show up. Still, the effort has to be made. The Milken Institute recently estimated that the most common chronic diseases cost the economy more than $1 trillion annually, mostly from lost worker productivity, which could balloon to nearly $6 trillion by the middle of the century.
 Disease Management. Virtually all policy experts want more careful coordination of the care of chronically ill patients, who account for the largest portion of the nation's health care expenditures. Although that should improve the quality of the care they get, coordination may not cut costs as substantially as people expect. In some initial trials it has cut costs, in others not.
 Drug Prices. Compared with the residents of other countries, Americans pay much more for brand-name prescription drugs, less for generic and over-the-counter drugs, and roughly the same prices for biologics. This page believes it would be beneficial to allow Medicare to negotiate with manufacturers for lower prescription drug prices and to allow cheaper drugs to be imported from abroad. The prospect for big savings is dubious.
 Who Picks Up the Tab?
 Pay Providers Less. With doctors dreadfully unhappy under the heavy hand of insurers, it would seem shortsighted to make them even unhappier by cutting their compensation to levels paid in other countries. But many experts believe it should be possible to tap into the vast flow of money sluicing through hospitals, nursing homes and other health care facilities to find savings.
 Emphasize Primary Care. In a health system as uncoordinated as ours, many experts believe we could get better health results, possibly for less cost, if we changed reimbursement formulas and medical education programs to reward and produce more primary care doctors and fewer specialists inclined to proliferate high-cost services. It would be a long-term project.
 Skin in the Game. The solution favored by many conservatives is to force consumers to shell out more money when they seek medical care so that they will think harder about whether it is really necessary. The ''consumer-directed health care'' movement calls for providing people with enough information about doctors and treatments so that they can make wise decisions. 
 There would most likely be some savings. A classic experiment by Rand researchers from 1974 to 1982 found that people who had to pay almost all of their own medical bills spent 30 percent less on health care than those whose insurance covered all their costs, with little or no difference in health outcomes. The one exception was low-income people in poor health, who went without care they needed. Any cost-sharing scheme would have to protect those unable to bear the burden. 
 And consumer-driven plans have limitations. Most health care spending is racked up by a small percentage of individuals whose bills are so high they are no longer subject to cost sharing; they will hardly be deterred from expensive care they desperately need. Moreover, few consumers have the competence or knowledge to second-guess a doctor's recommendations. 
 Single Payer. Deep in their hearts, many liberals yearn for a single-payer system, sometimes called Medicare-for-all, that would have the federal government pay for all care and dictate prices. Such a system would let the government offset the price-setting strength of the medical and pharmaceutical industries, eliminate much of the waste due to a multiplicity of private insurance plans, and greatly cut administrative costs. 
 But a single-payer system is no panacea for the cost problem -- witness Medicare's own cost troubles -- and the approach has limited political support. Private insurers could presumably eliminate some of the waste through uniform billing and payment procedures.
 By now it should be clear that there is no silver bullet to restrain soaring health care costs. A wide range of contributing factors needs to be tackled simultaneously, with no guarantee they will have a substantial impact any time soon. In many cases we do not have enough solid information to know how to cut costs without impairing quality. So we need to get cracking on a range of solutions. The cascade of knowledge flowing from the human genome project, new nanotechnologies and the advent of treatments tailor-made for individual patients may well accelerate, not mitigate, the rise in medical spending. If we want the benefits, we will need to make them affordable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (66%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



530 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In the Back, Not All Cattle Are Equal

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
FLYING in coach doesn't have to be a horrific experience. Really. You just have to pay more. 
 Increasing numbers of airlines have begun to offer slightly better seating in the back of the plane for passengers willing to pay the extra $15 or $100 to sit there. You may not get a seat that's as plush or as spacious as one in business or first class, of course, but it will still be a step up from the cattle-car experience of standard coach.
 ''In the past, airlines looked at coach as just one thing,'' said Chris McGinnis, editor of the Expedia Travel Trendwatch. ''A coach seat is a coach seat is a coach seat. But in recent years, they've come to the conclusion that some coach seats are better than others.'' 
 Thus, Virgin America, which started flying in August, charges $15 for a bulkhead seat on short-haul flights, like San Francisco to Las Vegas, and $25 for longer flights, like New York to Los Angeles; Northwest charges you $15 to reserve some of its better seats on domestic flights, like those in the exit rows; Air Tran sells exit row seats for an extra $20 each way; no-frills Spirit Airlines has what it calls Big Front Seats that cost upward of $30 extra per one-way flight and give you as much as six extra inches of room over a standard seat; and the once strictly egalitarian Southwest Airlines now allows those who have higher-priced tickets (mostly business travelers who book at the last minute) advance boarding and the option to choose the best seats.
 An even better option is to book one of the so-called premium economy seats, a feature inaugurated by Virgin Atlantic in 1992 and now being offered in some form by a number of airlines, including United Airlines. 
 Called Economy Plus by United, the program features at least 36 seats on each flight that offer up to five extra inches of seat pitch (the distance between your seat and the one in front of you) over the standard coach seat. There's a catch, though: If you're not a high-ranking frequent flier, you have to pay a membership fee of $349 a year to qualify for one of these seats, and then it is available only on a first-come-first-served basis. (The airline says that on some flights, if premium seats are available, regular passengers may be offered the chance to upgrade, either online or at airport kiosks when they check in, for $25 or $30 one way.) United also offers a ''p.s.'' service on its nonstop flights between Kennedy Airport and the Los Angeles International and San Francisco airports, in which all 72 seats in a reconfigured coach cabin offer 34 inches of pitch and 17 inches of seat width, at economy-class prices that are competitive with other airlines'.
 Premium economy is more commonly found on foreign carriers, and is often an excellent option for those dreaded long-haul flights across the ocean.
 For instance, starting next month, all six of Virgin's flights between London's Heathrow Airport and New York will feature 62 new premium economy seats with 38 inches of legroom (compared with 31 in coach), lumbar support in seat backs that inflate and deflate at the touch of a button, meal service on china with stainless steel cutlery, fresh fruit any time during the flight and a predeparture glass of Champagne. The lowest round-trip economy fare for a flight in early December from Newark to Heathrow was $588 in a recent search at www.virgin-atlantic.com. A premium economy class seat cost $1,428; business class or ''Upper Class,'' $8,371.
 Among the other airlines that offer seating in a kind of middle ground between coach and business are Scandinavian Airlines, Air New Zealand, All Nippon, BMI and British Airways, with Qantas planning to do so beginning in April. Benefits include from five to seven extra inches of legroom as well as priority check-ins and better onboard amenities.
 But even if you fly standard coach, picking the right airline to fly and -- most important -- doing some seat research before you book your ticket can go a long way toward making your flight a more comfortable one. One of the best Web tools for this is www.seatguru.com, on which you can find practically every plane flown by most major airlines, with a detailed map of the cabin showing which seats are best and which are to be avoided at all costs. Here, based on advice gleaned from that Web site, as well as Seatexpert.com and Skytrax, a research firm that ranks airline quality, are some recommendations of which airlines to fly on three popular routes:
 New York to Paris: Take the Air France flight out of Newark, which uses an Airbus 330 on that route, with its 2-4-2 coach configuration. Not only are your chances of getting stuck in a middle seat reduced, but the 32 inches of seat pitch and 18 inches of seat width are also among the roomiest on offer. (And you get French cooking.) Avoid Continental's one-aisle 757, which has three seats on each side on that same route, with its Scrooge-like offerings of 31 inches of seat pitch, 17.2 inches of width and the one-out-of-three chance of being stuck in a middle seat. 
 Miami to London: Five airlines sell tickets on this nonstop route on a regular basis: British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, American and Singapore and Continental (the last two on a code share with Virgin). Here is where the seatguru chart can come in handy. British Airways seems to offer slightly less room than the others (a pitch of 31 inches versus 32 by its competitors), yet the configuration of this 747-400 plane offers only up to 6 of what seatguru defines as ''poor'' seats in coach, compared with 16 or so for American and 11 for Virgin, on their Boeing 777 and Airbus A340-600, respectively. But if in-flight entertainment matters more to you, then Virgin might be your choice, with individual TV screens at each seat and video-on-demand rolling out across the fleet. 
 San Francisco to Hong Kong: Cathay Pacific, Singapore Airlines and United all fly the same plane, a 747-400, on this route, with a 3-4-3 seating configuration in coach. (American also sells it as a code share with Cathay Pacific.) United was offering the lowest round-trip ticket over Christmas (in recent online searches, $2,077 versus $3,074 on Cathay and a whopping $5,327 on Singapore), perhaps because it offers just 31 inches of seat pitch and 17 inches of width to the others' 32 and 17.2 inches. United's international economy class is also given a lower three-star ranking by Skytrax, compared with four stars for both Singapore and Cathay Pacific, which tend to offer better food, entertainment and overall service. Your best bet might be to fly Cathay Pacific if you can snag the second-to-last window seat at the back of the plane, where the seating Web sites point out that the curvature of the fuselage leaves enough room for just two seats in those rows and a lot more elbow room for those window seat passengers. Cathay Pacific also just revamped its economy class cabin with new seats that are designed to allow passengers to recline without intruding on customers seated behind them and that have nine-inch TV monitors in the seat back. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT)(pg. TR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (79%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (83%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (83%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (83%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



531 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL3-26 
 U.S. Hedges Goals in Iraq
 With American military successes outpacing political gains in Iraq, the Bush administration has lowered its expectation of quickly achieving major steps toward unifying the country.1 
 Blasts in Pakistan Kill 15
 Two suicide car bombers attacked a walled compund in in Rawalpindi, the site of the military's headquarters, killing at least 15 service personnel. 16
 As he fights to hold on to power, Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, finds himself opposed by the expanded middle class he helped create. 16
 Czar's Missing Children
 Amateur sleuths in Russia believe they have uncovered the remains of Czar Nicholas II's only son, Aleksei, and one of his daughters.1
 Rural Exodus in India
 The exodus of Indians from villages to Mumbai reflects a new global trend: The planet has become more urban than rural.3 
 NATIONAL27-39
 Challenges in Iraq
 Amid declining violence in Baghdad, the leading Democratic presidential candidates are undertaking a new and challenging balancing act on Iraq: acknowledging success, trying to shift the focus to the lack of political progress there, and highlighting more domestic concerns like health care and the economy. 1 
 Boutique Distilleries
 On the heels of the microbrewing boom, new microdistilleries are thriving from coast to coast. Some of the latest entrants to the industry are in places like Iowa, Indiana, Illinois and Michigan. 1
 NEW YORK/REGION 41-44
 Exoneration's Aftermath
 At least 205 men and one woman nationwide have been exonerated through DNA evidence since 1989, including 53 who were convicted of murder. One of them, Jeffrey Mark Deskovic, has faced challenges that those exonerated typically confront once freed, like making a living and reconnecting with relatives.1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MURDER (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); FORENSICS (71%); TRENDS (68%); EVIDENCE (64%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%); DNA (50%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



532 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: Class Conflict

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS. 
MICHELLE HIGGINS writes the Practical Traveler column.

 BODY:
OVER the past few years -- and this will probably come as no surprise to anyone who has gotten on a plane over this Thanksgiving weekend -- flying in coach has become an increasingly miserable experience. Legroom is practically nonexistent. Passengers are more tightly packed together. Hot meals have been eliminated. Ditto pillows and blankets. And the next time that guy in front of you leans his seat back directly into your face, few of your fellow passengers are likely to blame you if you feel a brief, murderous urge to strike back.
 All this has created a generation of fliers who now view getting on a plane as roughly akin to entering the ninth circle of hell.
 Doug Fesler, an executive at a medical research group in Washington, wasn't expecting much in the way of amenities on his American Airlines flight to Honolulu in September. In fact, knowing the airline no longer served free meals, he had packed his own lunch for the second leg of his flight from Dallas to Honolulu. But he said he was shocked at the lack of basic services and the overall condition of the cabin. 
 On that flight, the audio for the movie was broken. The light that indicated when the bathroom was occupied was squirrely, causing confusion and, in some cases, embarrassingly long waits for passengers in need of the lavatory. And though food was available for purchase, it ran out before the flight attendants could serve the entire cabin, leaving some fellow passengers looking longingly at the snack he had packed. 
 His return flight was just as disappointing. This time the audio for the movie worked -- but only in Spanish -- and his seat refused to stay in the upright position. ''I was just appalled,'' Mr. Fesler said. ''You pay $500 or $600 for a seat, and you expect it to be functional.'' He said he has considered refusing to fly airlines with such poor service, but added that ''if you did that with every airline that made you mad, you'd never get anywhere in this country.'' 
 Mr. Fesler is hardly alone in his antipathy toward the airlines, as anyone who has spent time reading the angry customer postings on Web sites like flyertalk.com, airlinerage.com and flightsfromhell.com knows. 
 The fact is that airlines, flying so close to full capacity today, have realized that they really don't have to cater to economy passengers -- most of whom are booking on price alone, and who increasingly have no real airline loyalty -- because the cost of doing so would never be worth it in pure bottom-line terms.
 Does that sound harsh? Well, an unexpected -- but not totally surprising -- insight into how airline executives think these days came this summer when B. Ben Baldanza, chief executive of the aggressively bare-bones Spirit Airlines, hit ''reply all'' to an e-mail message from a passenger who wished to be compensated for a delayed flight that caused him to miss a concert he was planning to attend. Mr. Baldanza's response, which seemed to be intended only for a Spirit Airlines employee but subsequently appeared on multiple travel blogs, said: ''Please respond, Pasquale, but we owe him nothing as far as I'm concerned. Let him tell the world how bad we are. He's never flown us before anyway and will be back when we save him a penny.'' 
 While Mr. Baldanza may regret the manner in which his e-mail statement was delivered, his position hasn't changed. ''The point that I was making in that e-mail, maybe not as politically correctly as I should have, is let's not over-obsess or spend a lot of money dealing with customers with completely unrealistic expectations,'' he said, pointing out that the delay was due to weather and that the passenger was offered a $200 voucher toward future flights even though he had paid only $73 for two round-trip tickets. ''When the fare's this cheap, we're going to get another customer,'' he said.
 Thus airlines are increasingly cutting back services in coach or charging passengers for things that used to be free, like meals ($5 for a snack box on United) or drinks ($2 for a 16-fluid-ounce bottle of water on Spirit) or, in the case of Delta, US Airways, Northwest and Continental, starting to use narrow-body planes more frequently on trans-Atlantic flights, making those long-haul flights more cost-effective, albeit at the expense of passenger comfort.
 It's all simple economics. In January, United removed half-ounce pretzel snack mixes from the economy section of flights that are less than two hours long, about 29 percent of its flights, to save what it says is about $650,000 a year. (Cutting out pretzels has reportedly saved Northwest $2 million a year.) Meanwhile, American has estimated that it would save $30 million a year by eliminating free meal service in coach. Last September, in a move that extinguished any hope of hot meals returning to coach, the airline removed the rear galleys -- including the oven -- from its MD-80 aircraft and replaced them with four seats. That change, the airline told The Washington Post, will be worth an additional $34 million a year. Overall, the amount of money the nine largest passenger carriers in the United States spend on food per passenger has been slashed to about $3.40 from $5.92 in 1992, according to the Department of Transportation. 
 And wonder why it's almost impossible to get a pillow anymore? Again, it comes down to money. American has said it saved $300,000 when it removed pillows from its MD-80s in November 2004. In February 2005 it began removing pillows from 737s, 757s and Airbus 300s on nearly all flights within the continental United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico, with the airline explaining that the change saved it $600,000. 
 The story is much different in the front of the plane -- and it's not just things like the four-course meal (served on china, with real utensils, and with a choice of four wines) that American now serves its business-class passengers on overseas flights and the fact that, yes, a pillow and a blanket still await you.
 Passengers flying business class on United from Washington Dulles to Frankfurt, for example, are now offered ''180-degree lie-flat'' seats. The upgraded seats, which are part of a multimillion-dollar makeover of its international premium cabins, transform into 6-foot-4-inch beds and feature larger personal TV screens, iPod adapters and noise-canceling headphones. Delta Air Lines and American are also upgrading their upper-class cabins on international flights with such features as wider, bedlike seats, improved in-flight entertainment, and new food options. And Delta and United have turned to celebrity chefs -- Michelle Bernstein for Delta and Charlie Trotter for United -- to create menus for its business- and first-class customers. 
 Of course, the airlines insist they have not completely abandoned the economy segment of the market. In fact, Delta and Continental are making their commitment to the average passenger the signature element of their new ad campaigns, with Delta adding individual television screens on all its coast-to-coast flights among other things and Continental rolling out video-on-demand systems on its trans-Atlantic flights. ''We do a lot of work up front, but not at the expense of the back of the cabin,'' said Eric Kleiman, the director of product marketing for Continental.
 And some low-cost carriers are flying newer planes with better amenities like sleek leather seats, satellite television for each passenger and even, as in the case of JetBlue, removing seats to add legroom in coach. 
 Airlines insist they want to please all their passengers, but concede that it all comes down to the bottom line. ''We certainly provide a great deal of attention to passengers willing to pay the premium price,'' said Charley Wilson, managing director for external communications at American. ''We want to make sure that a passenger had a first-rate customer experience. The passenger who is buying a ticket from us based on price sensitivity -- we also want to make sure they have a comfortable flight. But the way we chiefly derive a profit from any given flight is the passenger willing to pay the premium.''
 United says just 8 percent of its customers -- the ones paying a premium for first and business class -- generate 36 percent of passenger revenue. That's why it is investing hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade its first- and business-class cabins with lie-flat seating and other amenities across its entire international fleet of wide-body aircraft. 
 Industry analysts say that most airlines have rightly decided that it makes little economic sense to provide expensive perks to customers paying the lowest fares. 
 ''With the spread of low-cost airlines,'' said Philip Baggaley, senior airline credit analyst at Standard & Poor's, most of the major carriers ''have come to the conclusion that they're not able to get a higher fare for offering added service.'' 
 In fact, one much-touted effort to make the flying experience a more comfortable one for economy passengers -- American's 2000 experiment of taking two rows out of coach to create some extra legroom among the remaining seats -- was dismantled three years later, and the rows returned to the cabin. The extra room just didn't pay off financially. 
 ''The environment changed, and customers were very attentive to how much a fare cost,'' said Lauri Curtis, American's vice president for onboard service. A product that ''no one was willing to pay for,'' she said, ''doesn't make sense.''
 THE ever-yawning gap between the coach and the business- and first-class experience is perhaps nowhere more noticeable than on international flights, where United States carriers are scrambling to keep pace with well-regarded airlines like Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways and Emirates Airline, as well as fend off the competition from low-cost business-class carriers like Eos and MaxJet, which offer fares often less than those of the standard carriers.
 It's both a push and pull situation in that the international markets are more attractive,'' Mr. Baggaley said. ''They're growing more quickly. The airlines often have more pricing power on those routes because there are fewer competitors.'' 
 All of this restructuring has helped airlines make money again, even in the face of soaring fuel prices. After losing a cumulative $35 billion between 2001 and 2005, United States airlines recorded their first profitable year of the millennium in 2006, according to the Air Transport Association, when the industry posted a $3 billion net profit. This year, the association projects earnings to be in the $5 billion range.
 Of course, knowing that the airline you've just flown is more financially solvent is not much consolation when you realize your luggage hasn't arrived with you or after you almost got into a fistfight with the passenger next to you because neither would yield the armrest. 
 ''There is no question the cattle-class experience has contributed to the rise and intensity of air rage incidents all over the world,'' said Andrew Robert Thomas, an assistant professor of business at the University of Akron, who has written books about air rage and maintains the Web site airrage.org.
 ''More people in a smaller space experiencing a naturally stressful environment will trigger different reactions in some folks, and a number will be violent,'' he added. ''With the cutbacks continuing and the number of air travelers projected to triple in the next 20 years, air rage will be a problem for the foreseeable future.'' 
 The airlines do acknowledge that while their finances have improved, they must do a better job of convincing the average traveler that they understand that these savings have come at a cost to the customer experience. 
 ''We recognize we have missed some opportunities in the last couple of years to do the right thing from the customer experience, as we have tried to save our company financially,'' said Mark Mitchell, managing director of customer experience, a newly created position at American. ''We have fallen off, especially in the last 18 to 24 months.'' He said he was hired to ''work on the broken pieces of our airline,'' including how American handles delays, the boarding process, cabin cleaning, baggage handling and flight attendant interactions with customers.
 Some passengers seem to feel that the airlines should just acknowledge that the flying experience is no longer a glamorous or, at times, even tolerable one -- especially back in coach -- and that it's something passengers are going to have to accept.
 ''I actually have more respect for Southwest Airlines in this area,'' said Julie Hurwitz, an executive assistant from Los Angeles, referring to that historically no-frills airline. ''They've never pretended to have more than they do.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT)(pg. TR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); THANKSGIVING (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (87%) HAWAII, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



533 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Master of Doomed Love And Dark Surprises

BYLINE: By TERRENCE RAFFERTY

 BODY:
ANYONE prone to attacks of vertigo should approach the works of Max Ophuls (1902-57) with some caution. Watching an individual Ophuls picture, in which, typically, the camera is in perpetual motion, can be a dizzying enough experience, but attempting to take in the whole of his career -- by, say, attending the 12-movie retrospective that begins Friday at the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Rose Cinemas -- could be more disorienting yet, because Ophuls did a fair amount of moving around himself. 
 After leaving his native Germany in 1933, he directed films in France, Italy and the Netherlands; in the '40s he worked in Hollywood; in 1950 he returned to France (where he had been a citizen since 1938) and made his four most famous movies. Trying to track this odd itinerary feels a little like chasing someone up a spiral staircase in the Tower of Babel. 
 There are, in fact, quite a few spiral staircases in the films of Max Ophuls, and he always seems to negotiate them smoothly. And although the irregular, stop-and-start nature of his career would drive most artists crazy, none of Ophuls's several dislocations appear to have fazed him much. The consistency of his themes and his visual motifs from the first movie in the series -- the elegant romantic tragedy ''Liebelei,'' made in Germany in 1933 -- to his last completed work, the elaborate picaresque called ''Lola Montes'' (1955), is striking. Echoes of ''Liebelei'' can be heard very clearly in the American ''Letter From an Unknown Woman'' (1948) and then again five years later in the French ''Earrings of Madame de ...''; and ''Lola Montes'' seems, in its less felicitous moments, just a gaudier version of Ophuls's 1934 Italian melodrama ''La Signora di Tutti.'' 
 In all these pictures, and in ''La Ronde'' (1950) and ''Le Plaisir'' (1952) as well, love and honor are tricky, maddeningly slippery things, and the camera, you often feel, has no choice but to remain in motion, framing and reframing the intimate moral geography of the characters' constantly changing situations. And frequently the only way to resolve all that flux and uncertainty is with something abrupt, arbitrary, pointlessly formal: Sometimes there has to be a duel. 
 Ophuls was obliged to reframe himself more than once in the course of his moviemaking life, maybe most dramatically when he moved to the United States in the early '40s. Hollywood's optimism and Ophuls's profoundly European fatalism were not, at least initially, an ideal match. He was fired from his first job, directing a costume picture called ''Vendetta,'' by the film's producer, Howard Hughes. (Hughes gave the boot to three other directors, including Preston Sturges and himself, before the movie was completed.) And the first Hollywood movie Ophuls finished, and signed, was an amiable but rather silly Douglas Fairbanks Jr. swashbuckler, ''The Exile'' (1947). But after the end of World War II, American moviegoers began to warm to the doomier aspects of the European sensibility, and to go to the sorts of films we later learned (from the French) to call noir: movies in which fate, or plain bad luck, governs the lives of the characters, and control over one's destiny is an illusion unsuitable for grown-ups.
 This, for Max Ophuls, was more like it. ''Letter From an Unknown Woman,'' which kicks off the Brooklyn Academy's series with a week's run, isn't a film noir, but its heroine, a young Viennese with a crippling lifelong crush on a caddish musician, is as helpless as any noir hero; and the lighting (by the great cinematographer Franz Planer, who had shot ''Liebelei'') emphasizes, as noir does, the shadows that make cities feel so dangerous and look so beautiful. 
 The movie is sleek, economical, exquisite, without a tracking shot out of place, and it features a remarkable performance by Louis Jourdan as the heroine's unworthy object of desire. His charm is terrifyingly empty and, to his sorrow, he knows it. ''Letter From an Unknown Woman'' lacks the dark humor of Ophuls's very best work, but it's a thrilling piece of movie craftsmanship, and it certainly isn't Hollywood-European; it is, unmistakably, the real thing. This picture has weltschmerz to burn.
 But in Ophuls's last two American movies, the Old World feels far away, barely a memory. ''Caught'' and ''The Reckless Moment'' (both 1949) take place in the present, in the United States, and in the untamed territory of full-blown noir. In ''Caught'' Barbara Bel Geddes plays a perky working girl who puts herself through charm school and is rewarded, with marriage to an extremely rich and borderline psychotic man, played by the reliably alarming Robert Ryan. (The character is said to have been based in large part on the director's former boss, Howard Hughes.) The union is poisonous -- to call this paranoiac millionaire a control freak would be to understate the case pretty drastically -- and the luckless bride wants out. But for a variety of reasons, which include her own flaws and vulnerabilities, she can never manage to escape cleanly; hence the title. 
 What makes ''Caught'' one of the most interesting Hollywood movies of its unusually interesting time is, as in ''Letter From an Unknown Woman,'' the performance of the actor cast in the villain's role. It's possible that no screen actor has ever been better than Mr. Ryan at portraying bad men tormented by their badness. He shows us, with surprising delicacy, the pure panic that is sometimes the secret source of cruelty.
 There's yet another troubled villain in ''The Reckless Moment,'' an Irish-born blackmailer named Donnelly (James Mason). He tries to put the squeeze on a California housewife (Joan Bennett) whose daughter had been involved with an unsavory character who has turned up dead, but poor Donnelly finds himself, unexpectedly, recoiling from his task, even identifying with the intended victim of his extortion. It's a deeply paradoxical identification: He senses (or imagines) that she's as inextricably trapped in her good, happy life as he is in his shady, messy one. 
 Ophuls's gliding camera is ideally suited to capture the small gestures and shifts of feeling of all these complicated noirish lives; in ''Caught'' and ''The Reckless Moment'' its movement feels so natural that it's almost unobtrusive. And those sinuous tracking shots always promise at least a little bit of freedom within our various confinements. Max Ophuls succeeded in locating that valuable portion of freedom, some way of remaining himself, in transferring his European fatalism to American film noir, and it's kind of inspiring. Ophuls, as we say here in the New World, knew how to roll with the punches. He rolled on tracks. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Danielle Darrieux in Max Ophuls's 1953 classic, ''Earrings of Madame de ...'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOFEST)
 The director Max Ophuls in an undated photo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); DISMISSALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



534 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: A Congested Economy

BYLINE: By Sam Staley. 
Sam Staley is the director of urban and land use policy at the Reason Foundation in Los Angeles and the co-author of ''The Road More Traveled: Why the Congestion Crisis Matters More Than You Think, and What We Can Do About It.''

DATELINE: Bellbrook, Ohio 

 BODY:
 CONGESTION is slowly strangling the New York region's economy, and the recent misguided attempts to rein it in by federal and local officials are proof that a fresh approach is needed. 
 Recently, the Federal Aviation Administration threw down the gauntlet on air traffic congestion, continuing caps on flights into and out of La Guardia Airport and threatening caps for Kennedy International Airport. This is like saying the problem with congestion is too many people want to come to (or through) New York City, so the solution is to keep them out.
 Similarly, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's politically bold congestion pricing plan attacks road congestion by diverting travelers from cars to mass transit -- again, telling people to stay out. 
 Both proposals fail to grapple with the root of the congestion crisis on land and in the air: the transportation network's physical infrastructure has not kept pace with demand. And the failure to come to grips with this situation will have significant long-term consequences for the region's economy. 
 According to the Texas Transportation Institute, a research group associated with Texas A&M University, traffic congestion already represents a $7.4 billion economic loss to the New York area's economy. The F.A.A.'s flight caps would drastically reduce access to the region's major airports, limiting access to the world's most important financial center and air traffic volume to levels not seen since the 1960s. 
 These claims may seem exaggerated. Traditionally, economists have claimed that a certain degree of congestion is efficient because the costs of eliminating congestion might not exceed the benefits. And some urban planners believe that congestion is actually good for the economy because it forces people to take public transportation and shop locally. Indeed, if congestion is so terrible, why aren't the economic consequences more visible? 
 But the problem is that the region continues to grow, and congestion's negative economic effects continue to broaden. The New York City and Northern New Jersey area, which includes Long Island and Westchester County, is expected to add at least 3.5 million people by 2030, on top of the 18 million people already there. This growth is not sustainable if congestion continues to go unchecked and elected officials continue to opt for blunt policy choices like caps that fail to address the need to expand capacity.
 The metropolitan New York, northern New Jersey and southwestern Connecticut region produces as much as it does because it taps into entrepreneurial talent and other resources unavailable in large concentrations elsewhere. This access to labor and resources gives it the foundation for sustained economic growth through increasing productivity. 
 The results are staggering. According to a 2005 ranking of the world's largest urban economies by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the tristate area, for example, churns out $1.1 trillion worth of goods and services each year.
 But if congestion continues, eventually it will eat away at economic productivity in the region. Congestion reduces the pool of resources available to businesses and workers by reducing access to jobs and employees. A 30-minute commute to work might become 45 minutes or an hour, pushing the job outside a worker's ''opportunity circle,'' which is the amount of time a typical worker is willing to travel to a job. 
 Productivity can compensate for the economic drag of congestion but only to a certain point. If congestion becomes too severe, the economy begins to fragment, which means that businesses drawing on a large metropolitan labor pool will be forced to tap into only those who live within a certain time and distance to the job. A fragmented economy hurts productivity. 
 It's already happening in the region. The Partnership for New York City, a business group, estimates that eliminating excess traffic congestion would add as much as $4 billion and 52,000 jobs to the regional economy. Congestion drains the region's manufacturing sector of $2 billion in revenue and 8,674 jobs. Wholesale trade takes a congestion hit worth $1.3 billion in increased operating costs. 
 In a world where New York is facing increasing competition from cities like London, Paris, Tokyo and Beijing, the economically debilitating effects of air and traffic congestion can no longer be ignored. Competitive margins are becoming thinner and thinner in an increasingly global economy, and congestion is a deadweight loss that needs to be addressed sooner rather than later. 
 Fortunately solutions exist for both traffic and air congestion. A crucial first step is to adopt congestion pricing in which toll rates are used to maximize travel speeds, not keep cars out of specific locations at certain times of the day. For example tolls should be highest during peak travel times but should fall during times of the day when demand for the same roadway is less. 
 The same principle can be applied to airports. At the moment, take-off rights, landing rights and runway slots are allocated based on a ''use it or lose it rule.'' Landing fees are based on aircraft weight, not the airline's willingness to pay for using a certain airport. Congestion pricing would allow airlines to bid for slots based on their desire to have access to the runways of airports during busiest travel periods of the day.
 But even managing the system more efficiently doesn't compensate for the need to add more capacity to meet travel demand. This is why the F.A.A. rules are so draconian. Rather than recognize the need to add new runway capacity to meet higher travel demand, the regulatory hammer is being used to try to reduce demand to meet existing capacity. Caps put the solution upside down. The policy goal should be to increase mobility (and access), not reduce it. 
 If we are willing to make the policy changes necessary, the days of living with congestion in the air and on our roadways can be over. More important, in today's global economy, the optimal level of congestion may in fact be zero despite the protests of some planners and old-school economists. At a minimum, perhaps we need to plan for a world where speed and mobility take their legitimate place as pillars of a productive urban economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); RANKINGS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE (55%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



535 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Japan Hunts the Humpback. Now Comes the Backlash.

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
THE ritual has been the same for nearly 20 years. Japan, while adhering to a 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling, has sent sturdy ships to Antarctic waters and, more recently, parts of the Pacific Ocean to kill hundreds of whales in the name of scientific research. 
 Vessels from the groups Sea Shepherd and Greenpeace tail and harass the whaling fleet, while strong protests are lodged by environmental groups, many marine biologists, and officials from the United States, Australia and other countries. But this year those complaints have intensified, largely because Japan has added a new animal to its planned harvest of more than 1,400 whales from seven species -- the humpback, Megaptera novaeangliae.
 Japan hopes to kill 50 of these endangered whales, which have long held a place in the public's imagination with their other-worldly songs, habit of rocketing their 30-plus tons out of the sea and migrations of up to 10,000 miles a year. Melville once described the humpback as ''the most gamesome and lighthearted of all the whales.''
 Whaling nearly wiped it out, reducing the humpback's numbers to perhaps a 1,000 by the mid-1960s. Today, estimates put the total at roughly 30,000. They are considered at high risk of extinction by the World Conservation Union.
 ''Humpbacks are some of the most wonderful and mysterious creatures in the ocean, with the longest vocalization produced by any animal, including humans, with their bouts of song that last up to 23 hours,'' said David Rothenberg, a professor of philosophy and music at the New Jersey Institute of Technology and author of a forthcoming book on whale songs and science. 
 ''We still do not know why they need to sing so extensively, and we ought to leave these whales alone for enough years to find out,'' he said.
 Once a top target of whalers because they swim close to shore, the humpback is now the centerpiece of another enterprise, whale watching, which by some measures is a billion-dollar-a-year business, making it larger in inflation-adjusted dollars than commercial whaling was even at its peak. 
 There is some thought among foes of whaling that Japan picked this marquee species intentionally to test the resolve of anti-whaling nations and groups. 
 ''If there's no reaction to this, my suspicion is they'll expand the hunt quickly,'' said Roger Payne, one of the biologists who first documented the low, resonant, ocean-spanning song of the species, and who is president of a whale conservation group, Ocean Alliance.
 The director general of Japan's Institute for Cetacean Research, Minoru Morimoto, has defended the program, saying, ''Japan's research is a long-term scientific program that is obtaining biological and ecosystem information required for proper management.''
 (There is no ban or limit on such harvests, even though most of the meat is sold commercially in Japan.)
 The Japan Whaling Association, a private group representing the whaling operations, has described complaints as cultural imperialism on its Web site, whaling.jp: 
 ''Asking Japan to abandon this part of its culture,'' the association says, ''would compare to Australians being asked to stop eating meat pies, Americans being asked to stop eating hamburgers and the English being asked to go without fish and chips.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OFF TO SEA: A Japanese whaling vessel left Shimonoseki port last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); FISHING LAW (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); MAMMALOGY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); ANIMAL COMMUNICATION (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WRITERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (58%); WORLD CONSERVATION UNION (54%); INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



536 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: For All the Rock in China

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
 AS she would anywhere in the world, Karen O of the arty New York rock band the Yeah Yeah Yeahs strode onto a festival stage here last month in costume, looking like a wild, futuristic harlequin in her cape of silver wings and blue-and-green striped tights. Shouting to 10,000 mud-soaked fans who shouted her lyrics right back at her, she thanked them in gasps of Mandarin: ''Xie xie ni!''
 A couple of days earlier the Brooklyn rapper Talib Kweli was at a gleaming new club across town. And last Sunday, Linkin Park, a group of rap-rock titans with worldwide sales of 45 million, played in Shanghai to a sold-out stadium crowd of 25,000.
 They are among the latest in a growing tide of Western acts hoping to crack the vast new entertainment market of China. Once largely closed to foreign music, the country has gradually loosened restrictions and -- at a time when record sales in the West continue to plunge, and new sources of revenue have become essential -- emerged as a crucial territory on pop's global map. 
 ''China is on the tip of everybody's tongue,'' said Peter Grosslight, worldwide head of music for the William Morris Agency. ''There's 1.3 billion people there. It's becoming a much wealthier place. How can we ignore that?''
 For the Western music industry China is a mix of new challenges and familiar frustrations, with rampant piracy of CDs and a minimal touring infrastructure. And many services taken for granted elsewhere, like the collection and distribution of recording royalties, are not fully established. But despite these obstacles, the broad commercial potential makes the country an irresistible draw, with money to be made from live shows, merchandise and technologies like cellphone ring tones. Five years ago a concert by Kenny G was big news. Now Chinese cities frequently turn up on the touring itineraries for a range of acts; this year Beyonce, Eric Clapton, Nine Inch Nails, Avril Lavigne and Sonic Youth have all played in China, along with underground rock bands that travel by train through a network of sweaty clubs in second-tier cities.
 Linkin Park has already toured in Southeast Asia, but the group was looking at its first concert in China as a particularly lucrative opportunity. ''This one show could break the band wide open in a brand-new frontier,'' said Michael Arfin, Linkin Park's booking agent.
 The concert grossed $750,000, Mr. Arfin said. On a per-ticket basis that is roughly equivalent to the band's take on recent American tours.
 For musicians the thrill of playing to crowds who may be seeing their first foreign band can be intoxicating. When the Yeah Yeah Yeahs played the Modern Sky Festival, a three-day event at Haidian Park on the west side of Beijing, the fans waited in reverential silence between songs but erupted once the music kicked in, with fists in the air and young women screaming in the front.
 ''It was like nothing we've done before,'' Karen O said afterward. ''From the very beginning they were hungry for us.''
 But the bulk of that rapidly urbanizing, discretionary-income-wielding audience might not be terribly hungry for foreign music. Well-scrubbed pop singers from Taiwan and Hong Kong dominate the airwaves and the popular imagination, with relatively little attention paid to rock. 
 Rock 'n' roll has had a short and shaky history in China. After an initial flourish in the 1980s it went underground in the aftermath of the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989. For much of the '90s the only Western rock to reach Chinese ears came in the form of remaindered CDs from overseas distributors, and musicians were frustrated to find that their music faced too many cultural barriers to take root. 
 ''There was ample idealism then, but we hit the rocks pretty quick,'' said Kaiser Kuo, a founding member of Tang Dynasty, one of the biggest Chinese rock bands of the '90s. ''We realized that we were doomed to life on the margins.''
 Chinese rock got a second life with the arrival of the Internet, which flooded the country's youth with new music. A small but vibrant scene developed, with sometimes startlingly up-to-date reference points. This year two Chinese bands traveled to the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex.: Rebuilding the Rights of Statues, a ringer for the angular post-punk of Gang of Four, and Lonely China Day, which borrows from the cinematic grandeur of Sigur Ros. Of the 120 bands at Modern Sky, all but 10 or so were Chinese.
 To capitalize on this emerging market, the international touring and record industries have in recent years established beachheads in China. William Morris opened a Shanghai office in 2004. This year Ticketmaster bought a majority stake in Emma Entertainment, a Chinese promoter and ticketing service that presented the Linkin Park show. 
 What works in China, however, can sometimes conflict with the larger goals of Western businesses. Linkin Park is among the biggest foreign bands in China, but its label, Warner Brothers, has not released its latest CD there. And despite recent tours by Nine Inch Nails, Sonic Youth and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, the Chinese division of Universal has not released their records either. 
 The labels say that piracy has made the effort futile. The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a trade group, estimates that 85 percent of the CDs sold in China are counterfeit. Leong Mayseey, the federation's regional director for Asia, says the piracy rate for downloaded songs is close to 100 percent.
 When Jeff Antebi, manager of the R&B duo Gnarls Barkley, was looking over worldwide accounting statements, he was perplexed to see that the group's song ''Crazy,'' a Top 10 hit around the world, registered no sales at all in China. It was a ''black hole,'' he said. Frustrated when the label, Warner Brothers, blamed only piracy, Mr. Antebi recently decided to open an office in China to protect his interests. 
 ''Major record companies have two options in a place like China,'' he said. ''Adapt or die.''
 But many Chinese labels, nimble and unencumbered by tradition, have adapted to the contaminated marketplace in ways that Western companies are struggling with. Viewing CDs as a loss leader they routinely sign groups to all-encompassing contracts that allow the label to share in revenues from touring, merchandise and endorsements. 
 ''The Chinese music industry will be the model for the world's music industry one day,'' said Shen Lihui, the founder of Modern Sky, a small company that has released around 100 albums -- most money losers, Mr. Shen said -- but also has a host of auxiliary businesses, producing books, videos and Web sites.
 Strolling through the festival grounds Mr. Shen, dressed in a lavender Burberry shirt and white shoes, pointed out the many corporate sponsors: Motorola, Levi's, Diesel jeans. These deals bring in the money needed to run the event, he said, and his audience has no objection to advertising. By the main stage, which was flanked with giant Motorola-branded screens, one young man waved a big red flag that said, in a Beijing dialect, ''I rock!'' 
 For most concerts sponsorships are a necessity. Traveling expenses and the need for low ticket prices -- anything higher than $6 or $7 or so is prohibitively expensive for many young Chinese -- mean that many shows would lose money unless sponsors pick up the slack. 
 Advertisers can also lend essential brand identification to acts that have less recognition in China, said P. T. Black, a partner in Jigsaw International, a market research agency in Shanghai. 
 ''In the U.S. an artist becomes big, and then a brand latches on to borrow their credibility,'' Mr. Black said. ''Here there are virtually no artists who have more credibility than the brands. Coke is a lot cooler brand than any young musician today in China.''
 Many of the Western acts reaching Chinese shores operate far below the radar of multinational corporations. A decade of exploration by punk and metal groups has carved pathways through clubs in a dozen or so cities, and economical musicians -- going by train because of the expense and unreliability of highway traveling -- can break even on a tour. 
 Even little-known American bands can easily accommodate a Chinese jaunt. Last month the Birthday Boyz, a Brooklyn quartet that describes its sound as ''very dire, dynamic, metallic post-hardcore'' and plays tiny clubs at home, hustled through two weeks of Chinese shows.
 Dodging other coach-class passengers in the aisle of a train from Changsha to Wuhan, two smog-choked inland cities with strong punk scenes, Jeff Bobula, one of the Birthday Boyz' guitarists, described the culture shock: ''The basis of touring the U.S. is, you hop in a van or car, you drive all day, you play, hopefully you sleep somewhere, and then you wake up and go to the next show. In China all the traveling you do is very public.''
 Small bands can escape the notice of the Chinese government, but any band playing a gig above the club level will inevitably encounter the Ministry of Culture and its censors. Every lyric on a CD and every song planned for a live performance must be approved to obtain the necessary permits for a concert or retail release of an album. Approval can take months, and the ministry has a way of undercutting the best-laid plans of global promotional campaigns.
 ''Most of the rejected tracks are smash hits in the international market,'' said Danny Sim, the marketing director for international repertory at Universal Music China. ''Akon's 'Smack That' and 'I Wanna Love You,' those tracks were rejected by the government. They were the first and second single from the album.''
 Censorship can rear its head in less obvious ways. When Sonic Youth played Beijing in April, its hand-picked opening act, a Chinese band called Carsick Cars, was taken off the bill at the last minute. No explanation was given, but Thurston Moore, one of Sonic Youth's guitarists, said he suspected the government had been alerted to his band's participation in the Tibetan Freedom Concerts in the United States in the 1990s and was offering an oblique punishment.
 ''Who do you argue with?'' Mr. Moore said after returning home. ''You don't. If you argue, you go to jail.''
 Bands touring China face more prosaic hurdles as well. When the Yeah Yeah Yeahs were preparing to play at Modern Sky, their sound check took far longer than usual -- ''10, 12, 15 hours,'' Karen O said with a groan -- because the local crew's professional standards were low. 
 But after the concert the band celebrated at a cavernous dance club, calling the show a success. Nick Zinner, the guitarist, said playing in China was something the band had wanted to do for years. When asked why, Mr. Zinner opened his eyes wide and looked at the crowd of well-dressed young Chinese.
 ''It's the future,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails performing at the Beijing Pop Festival in September.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIEN-MIN CHUNG/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. AR1)
Winning new fans in a new land: Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs in Beijing, above
Linkin Park last Sunday in Shanghai, left.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MODERN SKY ENTERTAINMENT)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 At left, Beyonce, center, in Shanghai. She is among a range of Western mainstream and underground artists to play China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. AR22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); ROYALTIES (74%); RECORD REVENUES (73%); TALENT AGENTS (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



537 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Our Side of the Mountain

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE McNAMER. 
Deirdre McNamer is the author of the novel ''Red Rover.''

DATELINE: Missoula, Mont. 

 BODY:
 SOMETIMES I'll sit on the front steps of our yellow bungalow and think about swimming up through 2,000 feet of water to catch a breath. It's what I would have had to do 12,000 years ago when the Missoula Valley was the bottom of a stupendously big lake. The mountains that rise from the edges of town still show the striations that were the lake's shorelines during subsequent glacial dramas that drained and refilled the valley, time after time after time.
 Until quite recently, the mountains had houses only up to the lower shorelines. An exception was an extravagant white Victorian, the showplace home of an early city father, that had, in 1966, been sawed into sections and moved from downtown to a mountainside area known as the South Hills, where it was turned into a restaurant. It burned down in 1992 and was rebuilt as a mini-castle-restaurant called Shadow's Keep. For quite a while, it stood up there pretty much alone, looking like something that had fallen from a time machine. As you drove up to it, the houses on the lower hillsides thinned out, and then there was a stretch of open ranchland, and then you were there. 
 Now there is a big development above the restaurant called Mansion Heights, 158 sites where completed houses tend to be in the 5,000-square-foot range and sell for upward of a million dollars. At night you can look up from the old lake floor and see other houses high on the mountains as well; big houses, twinkling in the dark. People pay a lot to buy that land and build those houses because they get eagle's-eye views and a sense of remove from the urban hubbub below, such as it is, though of course each house paves the way, quite literally, for others. So isolation as an amenity of the good life inevitably becomes more expensive to accomplish.
 Since houses have begun sprouting all over the South Hills, the ranchland we pass on the way to Shadow's Keep has come to seem more quaint with each passing year. It's also looked, of course, like a cash cow, and you expect cash cows to go to market sooner or later.
 What a surprise, then, when the three families who own that open land -- about a thousand acres arranged adjacently across two miles of the South Hills -- agreed that they wanted it to remain undeveloped forever, and last month sought conservation easements that would accomplish that. In short order, Missoula's Open Space Advisory Committee voted unanimously to recommend that the city and county allocate what it could, about $1.16 million, from a 2006 open space bond for the easements. One of the families donated its parcel without asking for any compensation, and the other two will, if the city and county governing agencies approve the easements at the end of this month, get, in addition to some tax breaks and some extra compensation from a land trust, $680,000 and $640,000 respectively -- far less than the price of many a Mansion Heights home. 
 Two of the families, the Lines and the Rimels, have run modest ranching operations up there for decades, and they say they want to keep doing what they've been doing, though the money certainly isn't in ranching these days. They don't plan to make a public park out of the area, or sell horseback rides or pitch down-filled teepees for tourists to sleep in. They plan only to keep it undeveloped. 
 I don't see that particular swatch of mountainside from my front porch, but if the easements go through (which looks very likely), I'll know, as I drink my coffee on the front steps, that a thousand acres up there on the ever-more-crowded banks of the ghost lake will never see a new house, simply because their owners, in an economic move that bought them nothing but their continuing livelihoods, wanted it that way. There is, I think, something quietly heroic about the whole business. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (94%) MONTANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



538 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: King of Pain

BYLINE: By JIM HARRISON

 BODY:
 THE PLEASURES OF THE DAMNED 
 Poems, 1951-1993. 
 By Charles Bukowski. 
 Edited by John Martin. 
 556 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $29.95. 
 Poetry shouldn't tell us what we already know, though of course it can revive what we think we know. A durable poet, the rarest of all birds, has a unique point of view and the gift of language to express it. The unique point of view can often come from a mental or physical deformity. Deep within us, but also on the surface, is the wounded ugly boy who has never caught an acceptable angle of himself in the mirror. A poet can have a deep sense of himself as a Quasimodo in a world without bells, or as the fine poet Czeslaw Milosz wrote: 
 A feast of brief hopes, a rally of the proud, A tournament of hunchbacks, literature. 
 Charles Bukowski was a monstrously homely man because of a severe case of acne vulgaris when he was young. Along the way he also had bleeding ulcers, tuberculosis and cataracts; he attempted suicide; and only while suffering from leukemia in the last year of his life did he manage to quit drinking. Bukowski was a major-league tosspot, occasionally brutish but far less so than the mean-minded Hemingway, who drank himself into suicide. Both men created public masks for themselves, not a rare thing in a writer's paper sack of baubles, but the masks were held in place for so long that they could not be taken off except in the work. 
 Throughout his life, Bukowski held a series of low-paying jobs so dismal that they are unbearable to list, though he did keep a position as a mail carrier for many years. Early on he was a library hound, and there are a surprising number of literary references in his work. (Quite by accident while I was writing this, the French critic Alexandre Thiltges paid a visit. He confirmed my suspicion that Bukowski had closely read Celine.) Even more surprising in this large collection are the number of poems characterized by fragility and delicacy; I've been reading Bukowski occasionally for 50 years and had not noted this before, which means I was most likely listening too closely to his critics. Our perceptions of Bukowski, like our perceptions of Kerouac, are muddied by the fact that many of his most ardent fans are nitwits who love him to the exclusion of any of his contemporaries. I would suggest you can appreciate Bukowski with the same brain that loves Wallace Stegner and Gary Snyder. 
 It is uncomfortable to realize that I have been monitoring American poetry for 50 years and am now even a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, which a friend refers to as ''The Dead Man's Club.'' All the scaffolding around the five-story building of this poetry is actually a confusing blemish and should be ignored in favor of the building itself, but this is probably impossible until a date in the future far beyond our concern. Time constructs the true canon, not critics contemporaneous to the work, whether they are the Vendlerites of the Boston area, the Bloombadgers of New Haven or the Goodyear Tires of New York City. 
 Bukowski was a solo act, though his lineage is fairly obvious. You detect Whitman, Bierce, Mencken, Sherwood Anderson, Kenneth Patchen, William Carlos Williams, perhaps Villon and Genet and strongly Celine. He loved classical music, and there is an amusing poem in which he feels for Bruckner because he wasn't a better composer. He despised Fitzgerald because to a man from the lower depths, Fitzgerald seemed sensitive only to the sufferings within the upper class. Bukowski seemed far more worried about his cats' health than his own. One had been shot and run over but survived, though its front legs didn't coordinate with the back, a metaphor of something, probably Bukowski's life. He had several failed marriages -- but then historically, poets are better off with imaginary lovers. He observed birds, but one cannot imagine anyone less a nature poet, if you discount the infield of a racetrack, where you could see him in the long line at the $2 window. He was deeply enthused about bars and keeping company with whores, and seemed to like the spavined landscapes of the nether regions of Los Angeles, which I myself used to visit. They are so resolutely charmless compared with the slums of New York I knew in the late '50s, which I visited because I was advised not to. 
 I have wondered, when asked about Bukowski in Brazil and France, if that's not why so many foreigners admire him: he's simply the American of their imagination, a low-level gangster as poet. Some are Abel poets and some are Cain poets, and Bukowski is clearly the latter (there are those who think of themselves as Cain poets but shift to Abel when they get a job in academia). It is clear in reading him that Bukowski didn't live in a gated community, whether academic or economic. His was the hard-found music of the streets. 
 But then, fuimus fumus -- it all drifts away in smoke. It is not poetry that lasts but good poems, a critical difference. An attractive idea is that the test of poetry should be the same as Henry James's dictum for the novel, that it be interesting. Pasternak said that despite all appearances, it takes a lot of volume to fill a life. Bukowski's strength is in the sheer bulk of his contents, the virulent anecdotal sprawl, the melodic spleen without the fetor of the parlor or the classroom, as if he were writing while straddling a cement wall or sitting on a bar stool, the seat of which is made of thorns. He never made that disastrous poet's act of asking permission for his irascible voice. 
 ''The Pleasures of the Damned'' is an appropriately long collection because it is likely to stand as the definitive volume of Bukowski's poems. It is well edited by John Martin, the publisher of the estimable Black Sparrow Press, who was Bukowski's editor for most of his working life. 
 It is hard to quote Bukowski because there are virtually none of those short lyrics with bow ties of closure that are so pleasant for a reviewer to quote. I will excerpt a poem evidently written quite near the end of his life: 
 it bothers the young most, I think: an unviolent slow death. still it makes any man dream; you wish for an old sailing ship, the white salt-crusted sail and the sea shaking out hints of immortality 
 sea in the nose sea in the hair sea in the marrow, in the eyes and yes, there in the chest. will we miss the love of a woman or music or food or the gambol of the great mad muscled horse, kicking clods and destinies high and away in just one moment of the sun coming down?
 I am not inclined to make elaborate claims for Bukowski, because there is no one to compare him to, plus or minus. He wrote in the language of his class as surely as Wallace Stevens wrote in the language of his own. This book offers you a fair chance to make up your own mind on this quarrelsome monster. It is ironical that those who man the gates of the canon will rarely if ever make it inside themselves. Bukowski came in a secret back door.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
 Because of an editing error, a review last Sunday about ''The Pleasures of the Damned,'' a poetry collection by Charles Bukowski, misspelled the second word of a Latin phrase meaning ''we were smoke.'' It is fuimus fumus, not flumus. (The phrase, a version of a tomb motto, is quoted from Thomas Wolfe's ''Look Homeward, Angel,'' where it is used to suggest life's transitory nature.)
A review on Nov. 25 about ''The Pleasures of the Damned,'' a collection of poetry by Charles Bukowski, misstated his marital history. He was married twice, his first marriage ending in divorce and his second lasting until his death; he did not have ''several failed marriages.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); SUICIDE (67%); ACNE (53%); SKIN DISORDERS (53%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007



539 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: From New Mutual Funds, Help in Serving the Nest Egg

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
WALL STREET has repeatedly sounded alarms to spur working Americans to save more for retirement, but it has been less interested in helping convert nest eggs to spendable, post-paycheck income.
 Of course, mutual funds emphasizing dividends have long been available, along with plans for withdrawing principal. More recently, the industry has offered life-cycle funds that become more conservative as investors age. And some companies have been offering advice, like the so-called Monte Carlo calculations, that show the odds that a given rate of spending will provide for the rest of one's life.
 Yet many investors, even those without traditional pensions, still reach retirement with only the vaguest notion of how to switch from accumulating assets to tapping them to finance their usual standard of living.
 Now, however, as the first baby boomers start to collect Social Security checks, fund sponsors are coming up with a passel of new products catering mainly to those who are knocking at the gates of retirement -- or are already inside. 
 ''As you enter the phase where you're going to be receiving income and drawing down assets, you need a different style of investment,'' said Keith F. Hartstein, president of the John Hancock Funds. ''You need a targeted distribution fund as opposed to the accumulation type.''
 At least a half-dozen sponsors, including Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group, have either begun marketing retiree-oriented funds or have announced plans to do so.
 More are undoubtedly on the way, predicted Burton J. Greenwald, a mutual fund consultant in Philadelphia. ''It's a natural evolution,'' he said. ''All the major fund sponsors will have such products in a short period of time.'' 
 Investors can choose among significantly different approaches. Some retirees will expect a specific monthly payout while others will favor a variable amount, based on what the portfolio generates. Some will want a fund whose principal is depleted by a certain year -- say, 2028 -- while others will want one that leaves assets for their heirs.
 But while some funds offer annuity-like features, and expect to make consistent payouts, none carry an annuity's contractual guarantee of specific payouts. One of the first firms off the mark this fall was Fidelity, whose Income Replacement Funds come with a choice of 11 targets, or time horizons, from 2016 to 2036. You specify how big a check you want each month to be paid from the portfolio's earnings from other Fidelity stock and bond funds, supplemented with as much of your principal as is necessary. If all goes well, your payment will rise each year to keep pace with inflation. The asset allocation of the fund shifts more toward bonds as the years pass. By the horizon date, the fund is liquidated.
 Vanguard's entry, called Managed Payout Funds, is expected to be available in December or January, and is not intended to deplete itself. But whether it can sustain payouts without returning at least some shareholder capital will depend on investment results. 
 Vanguard will set the payout annually, based on fund performance for the three preceding years: The Real Growth fund expects an initial 3 percent distribution rate, the Moderate Growth fund a 5 percent rate and the Capital Preservation fund a 7 percent rate. Lower payouts imply a greater probability of long-term growth and capital appreciation; Vanguard, unlike Fidelity, will invest in a broad spectrum of asset classes to include commodities, real estate and a new market-neutral fund. Diversity of assets, with little performance correlation to one another, can aid capital preservation as well as returns.
 ''The availability of a distribution service in a fund without having to sign up and move assets and try to figure out where to take them from first is an attractive vehicle for people,'' said Ellen Rinaldi, a principal in Vanguard's investment counseling and research unit. 
 Retirees want access to their money, she added, and unlike annuities, which tie up your principal, mutual funds provide it. 
 What distinguishes John Hancock's proposed Retirement Income Portfolio and Retirement Rising Income Portfolio from the Vanguard funds is that the dividend is fixed in dollars and cents. In the Rising Income portfolio, it climbs by the inflation rate each year. 
 At Charles Schwab, the Premier Income fund, with three share classes and a minimum investment of $100, was started at the end of October after raising $116 million during a four-week subscription period. The fund is focused purely on income, not a combination of income and total return, the way some competitors' offerings are, said Patrick S. Waters, Schwab's director of retirement investment products. 
 Other new offerings tailored for retirees are three funds from the Russell Investment Group with specific payouts for 10 or 20 years. They are to be available early next year.
 THE Investment Company Act of 1940 bars mutual funds from offering a guaranteed return. But John Hancock has applied for an exemption to the law and believes that if the rules change, future funds of this type will typically carry a guarantee. 
 Indeed, the DWS Scudder unit of Deutsche Bank expects early next year to begin marketing a fund whose 8.25 percent annual payments over 10 years are to be backed by a warranty from Merrill Lynch. At maturity, the net asset value would be paid to shareholders, or rolled over into another fund. 
 ''I think there will be a move to try to guarantee these products'' broadly, predicted Andrew G. Arnott, a product development official at Hancock.
 Although retiree-oriented funds seem to have a bright future, specialists say they should not be bought without considering expenses, taxes and, for those who are at least 70 1/2 years old, how they mesh with required annual distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k)'s.
 Some funds are fairly expensive. Shares of Schwab's Premier Income fund, for example, will cost as much as 0.87 percent a year, versus 0.34 percent for the Vanguard Managed Payout funds. And if the funds are held in a tax-deferred account, penalties can apply to withdrawals if investors are under 59 1/2. 
 Bruce J. Berno, an independent financial planner in Cincinnati, advised investors to be mindful of the source of money they will put into new funds. It's probably better to use ''fresh'' cash, he said, than proceeds from selling taxable investments that have capital gains. (In I.R.A.'s, however, money can be rolled over between funds without tax consequences.) What's more, he observed, most investors who keep the funds in retirement accounts will find that their payments are not big enough by themselves to meet requirements, starting at age 70 1/2, for annual distributions tied to people's longevity prospects. That means investors may have to withdraw money from other retirement accounts as well. 
 ''They're designed to deliver income, not to optimize taxes,'' said Ms. Rinaldi at Vanguard. 
 Dan Culloton, a senior fund analyst at Morningstar, said that the industry seemed to be meeting a need while avoiding ''quick-fix, easy-to-sell'' solutions. ''The most obvious use for these seems to be for people getting out of their 401(k) plans or people trying to turn their I.R.A.'s into income,'' Mr. Culloton said. ''They're designed to help guard against the risk of running out of funds before you run out of days.''
 But he urged savers to recognize that in some cases, income payments would be coming out of their own capital, and that these funds could decline in value.
 ''Their goal is plausible,'' he said, but their usefulness will become clearer as the funds ''build a track record and people get a feel for how to use them.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



540 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Pleased to Be Here

BYLINE: By WALTER KIRN. 
Walter Kirn is a regular contributor to the Book Review. His latest novel is ''The Unbinding.''

 BODY:
A FREE LIFE 
 By Ha Jin. 
 660 pp. Pantheon Books. $26. 
 Run down to the bar and rouse the culture editor: the impossible has happened. In the dispiriting age of Bush and Britney, with our military still bogged down in Baghdad and our media still bewitched by Beverly Hills, an accomplished, respected American writer (a recent National Book Award Winner, in fact) has published a serious patriotic novel. Its title, ''A Free Life,'' is not altogether ironic. Its subject, everyday bravery and nobility in a system built on risk and too often based on mutual exploitation, is delivered straight. Finally, its Chinese-born author, Ha Jin (whose seven previous works of fiction have all been set abroad), seems positively pleased and proud to be here. 
 Or at least his characters do. Nan and Pingping Wu, a husband and wife, are the sort of persevering newcomers, firmly set on a legal path to citizenship by way of unremitting thrift and toil, whom presidents like to point to from the podium during major addresses on the economy. Much as Jin himself did, the Wus came from China to study, not to stay, but they realized after the Tiananmen Square massacre (as Jin did too, he's said in interviews) that they couldn't go home again and be themselves, since both their selves and their native land had changed. ''A Free Life'' is the story of their family's naturalization -- bank deposit by bank deposit, dental appointment by dental appointment, appliance purchase by appliance purchase -- and like most novels of what professors call ''The American Immigrant Experience,'' it's chiefly a tale of trial and error. The trials provide the drama, the errors the comedy, and their overlap the pathos. It's an orthodox format, hard to reinvent, mostly because reinvention is its theme.
 For Nan, who's at graduate school in Boston when the tank turrets swivel in downtown Beijing, the first trick is to switch from brains to brawn. To support the good wife whom he doesn't truly love and the young son, Taotao, whom he doesn't quite understand, he gives up the life of the mind, which suits his temperament, for the lot of the laborer, which doesn't. On one of his early jobs as a security guard, he runs out to a market for a snack and finds himself waylaid on his return trip by a boozy, aggressive man and woman who badger him to come with them to a party packed with ''purty girls.'' Nan's confusion about their motives panics him. Once he's back at his post with the trusty pocket dictionary he's using to improve his English and the tattered literary classics that speak to his stifled dream of writing poetry, he concludes that he's barely avoided being forced to join in an orgy or a smut film. Had he weakened, it might be all over for him now. His aspirations are thoroughly middle-class -- a decent house, a healthy bank account and maybe, someday, time for thought and art -- and while he knows he's starting from the bottom, he also knows that, in America, there's nothing under the bottom but more bottom.
 As Jin puts the Wus through their paces as up-and-comers who might become down-and-outers at any moment (or so their exaggerated sense of caution causes them to fear), the story develops the cycling, skipping rhythm of a dirty compact disc. Each step up for the Wus -- from renter to owner, employee to employer, bricked-in city dweller to waterfront suburbanite -- stirs a vivid burst of hope followed by a fresh new stretch of static, as when the Wus grow mistrustful of the lawyer who uses a legal tactic called a ''straw'' to secure their joint title to a small restaurant they've bought in Atlanta's all-beige strip mall outskirts.
 ''Stupefied, Nan couldn't help but imagine that they'd sold their business for only one dollar. At the same time, he kept reminding himself that he shouldn't be too paranoid or think ill of Mr. Shang. ... According to the attorney, they'd receive a notice about the registration from the deeds office within two months. What could the Wus do in the meantime? It looked like they could do nothing but wait anxiously.'' 
 The nervousness of the Wus is not infectious but sympathy-inducing, like watching a bright child learn to spell. You know she will; you just wish that she knew, too. Given the novel's 600-page-plus length, the Wus' regular lapses into bafflement breed no suspense about their ultimate destinies. As they blunder along through the hazards and the hassles of ascending sandy Mount Capitalism, from confronting bouts of sickness without sufficient insurance to losing, in stages, their only child's attention to the nonstop come-hithers of the Internet, the sheer volume of unread print and untouched paper signals us that their climb will go ahead, with lots of skids and slip-ups, naturally, but no headlong plunges, even at the end. Volatility, after all, is a measure of health in a free market, and the elementary algebra of Jin's narrative pace -- as slow, implacable and steady as interest accumulating in a savings account -- implicitly promises that his dimes and quarters of mundane description and petty conflict will result in a full piggy bank for all. Neither does Jin give his people flaws or problems grave enough to threaten their well-being. Pingping's chronic fretting is not disabling, and Nan's nascent ambitions as a poet aren't the kind that lead to leaps off bridges if they go unattained.
 The Wus' credentials as model neo-puritans -- their humility, self-sacrifice, efficiency and unremitting skepticism about easy credit in all its forms, including the loans to the erotic self afforded by commercial sex and porn, which Nan feels calling to him on occasion -- are so unassailable that if they failed, the book would wind up as an Upton Sinclair-ish protest novel; a case study in humanity's futile puniness against the Great Machine. The Wus are the only ones who can't see that they're moving up, which feels almost jokelike because the novel's timeline -- from the late '80s to the late '90s -- was, we know now, an era of mass bounty. The novel's sole mystery is how satisfied the Wus will feel when they pull up the rope ladder behind them and kick back in their little piece of heaven. The range of possibilities is narrow. They won't be euphoric -- it's not their way -- but they won't be radically disappointed, either. A headspinning windfall might unhinge them, yes, but what seems most likely, and what we watch occur, is their introduction to the faint melancholy of ''Is this all there is?'' American comfort, followed by Nan's resolution to aim higher on the spiritual and mental plane the instant his mortgage is paid off.
 Impeccable kitchen-sink realism? Not really. The two steps forward, one step back progression of the Wu's acculturation may be true to the actual experiences of countless naive, non-native English speakers, but it feels here more like a monastic meditation or a ritual breathing exercise than a fictional documentary. Jin's simple sentences, familiar sentiments, and uneventful three- to five-page chapters that typically end with such pulse-suppressing non-cliffhangers as ''the day before the Wangs returned, the Wus moved out of the bungalow and set up their residence at 568 March Drive,'' appear to derive from a highly refined aesthetic of anti-excitability.
 Life, from day to day, seems hardly to alter, yet it shifts beyond recognition over the years -- this is what fascinates Jin, apparently, and it's what the Zen-like composure of his prose and his conveyor-belt time-sense seek to demonstrate. This proved, the experimental apparatus keeps on operating, though, repeating the same results with dwindling verve and testing the inner Buddhist in Jin's audience in ways that some may find calming and others sedating. Aside from a bruising medical episode concerning the abortion of a dead fetus, the novel's fiercest interludes are rhetorical, as the Pledge of Allegiance-minded Nan debates the China-first set at various gatherings. Eventually, thanks to a winning raffle ticket, he gets to see firsthand the country he left, which has been transformed during his absence into a carnival caricature of the nation he left it for. That Nan finds China's rapaciousness familiar from what its blackest propagandists have alleged about America is the novel's only excursion into cynicism. Nan has seen the future, and it ain't us. His retreat to Atlanta and a menial job that will at last allow him to write poetry feels oddly elegiac -- a great leap backward into a New World that he was too busy growing into, and growing fond of, to notice becoming ancient.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY BAUER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NATURALIZATION (72%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); IMMIGRATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); IRAQ (73%)

TITLE: Free Life, A (Book)>; Free Life, A (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



541 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NEW JERSEY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Showtime

 BODY:
This is showdown time for Gov. Jon Corzine. During the next few months, he will have to make good on his promise to put New Jersey on a sounder financial basis. 
 Unless he does, it is difficult to see how his administration can be successful. More important, unless he achieves financial stability in Trenton, New Jersey will be in very deep trouble. The Legislature and future governors will be tempted to keep borrowing whenever they can get away with it, and more and more taxpayer money will go to pay the mushrooming interest. 
 Mr. Corzine knows all this. In a recent speech in Atlantic City, he portrayed the challenge of lifting the state out of its debt burden as his top priority and said he was willing to lose his job if necessary to do it. He said the state cannot do the things it needs to do without getting its financial house in order.
 But he has said this before, and still not acted. 
 Some of the delay has not been his fault. His serious car accident last April incapacitated him for weeks, and the debt crisis was hardly his top priority then. During the fall, he avoided talking in detail about his plan for fear that legislative candidates would take irreversible stands against it. He says he still will not unveil the complete plan until early next year because he needs time to determine whether the bonds used to finance it would be totally or partially exempt from federal taxes.
 But the broad outlines have been emerging: The New Jersey Turnpike and Garden State Parkway would be turned over to a new public authority, which would sell bonds. These bonds, in turn, would be used to pay off about half of the state's estimated debt of more than $30 billion. (The state also has unfunded pension liabilities of more than $50 billion.) Mr. Corzine has said that with the state's debt reduced, Trenton's interest payments would be lessened and that some of the money saved could be used to revitalize the depleted fund that finances transportation projects.
 There would be a cost to this, of course. Turnpike and parkway tolls would have to be raised to pay off the new bonds, and the toll increase would be a whopper. Mr. Corzine acknowledges that even without his plan, the turnpike's tolls will have to be increased 75 percent just to pay for projects already on the books.
 It should be kept in mind, however, that the turnpike has not had a toll increase since 2003, when tolls rose as much as 17 percent; the parkway's last increase was 18 years ago when its tolls went from 25 cents to 35 cents. In a corridor state between New York, Pennsylvania and Delaware, the turnpike serves thousands of out-of-state drivers who pay a big part of the toll burden.
 Mr. Corzine says he will hold public meetings in all 21 counties to sell his refinancing plan. He will have a big challenge trying to convince the state's justifiably skeptical residents, and in turn their legislators, that this is not just another borrowing scheme. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (51%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



542 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Time Runs Out on a Place to See and Be Seen

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''FOR one brief shining moment that was known as Camelot. ...''
 That line from the musical, of course, is always associated with the brief and stormy presidency of John F. Kennedy, from 1961 to 1963. But to me, it will always be associated with the warm center of Hollywood, Morton's restaurant, which is breaking my old heart by closing on Dec. 22.
 It is true that Hollywood is going through some hard times. We writers have been on strike. (I am a member of the Writers' Guild of America, West, the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. (To the bosses, I say, ''We are not afraid.'') Some writers and makeup artists and sound men and gaffers and electricians might lose their homes in this strike. (Nevertheless, ''No pasaran!'') The Internet and the threat it poses to all traditional media have the town upside down with worry. 
 But of all the sorrows, the saddest I have seen in my 31 years in Los Angeles is the closing of Morton's. This restaurant is not to be confused with the steakhouses of the same name, which will be fine. Morton's on Melrose Avenue, the one I am talking about, was founded in 1979 by my pal Peter Morton. He was already rich from being the son of Arnie Morton, a meatpacking and financial and restaurant power in Chicago and nationwide, and from being the founder of the Hard Rock Cafes in the western United States, which he later sold. (Full disclosure: I was a very small investor in two of those restaurants, and Peter gave me the straightest count of receipts and profits that anyone ever had in the restaurant business.) 
 In 1979, Peter Morton, with his twin sister, Pam, as manager, opened Morton's on the southwest corner of Melrose and Robertson, on the line between West Hollywood and Beverly Hills. It was a smash from Day 1. It had great food, very fair prices, fast service and, most of all, that undefinable something that tells the beautiful people to ''be there or be square.''
 On a good night -- Monday was best -- the room would be crammed with studio heads, stars, idols and powerful agents. They all had their assigned tables and their assigned waiters. Among the customers were Michael Ovitz, Ron Meyer, Don Simpson, Larry Tisch, Steve Tisch, Sherry Lansing, Frank Sinatra and Dick Zanuck, as well as Sly Stallone and Goldie Hawn, both of whom went to school with me in Silver Spring, Md. I renewed a friendship with Sly there that had lapsed for 30 years.
 Yours truly would sit at a little deuce near a small ramp that led down from the entryway to the dining room and make note of who came in and out. Best of all, from my piggy perspective, at the bar would be legions of beautiful young women. ''What are they here for?'' I once asked my friend Barron Thomas, a businessman. ''Are they here to meet rich men, or to get an agent, or why are they here?'' 
 ''They don't know why they're here,'' he answered.
 I had some amazing moments there. The best one was in the 1980s when the comedian Joan Rivers sued me for a humor column I had written about her in GQ. It was big news in Hollywood. When I walked into Morton's that night with Sid Dauman, a designer and artist, the whole staff of waiters and cooks applauded me. I am still not sure why. (The suit was soon settled amicably, and I am her biggest fan.)
 On another night, when I was having a big fight with ABC over the outline for a TV mini-series I had written, Mr. Ovitz stopped at our table to wait for his guest and gave me the best advice on negotiation I have ever received: ''Take a fair position, stick to it and you'll get it.'' It has saved me many a time.
 Now, let me assure you, Hollywood has been incredibly good to me. I arrived as just another small-time writer and now I am a (small-scale) star. But Hollywood is also a rough, tough town. People lie. People steal. You have to have a great lawyer to avoid being totally ripped off. (My own great lawyers, Marty Singer and Michael Plonsker, were often guests at Morton's.)
 But Morton's was a neutral zone. Despite their difficulties and hostilities, people would get along and smile. It was Ciro's and the Mocambo and every other spot you've read about from Hollywood's golden age, all at once.
 Don't get me wrong. There are other power places in Hollywood. My own favorite is Mr Chow in Beverly Hills, which is a superstar place and home to the most powerful agent in the biz right now, Ari Emanuel. Its food is nonpareil.
 At its peak, however, Morton's was the ultimate. In 1994, it moved across the street, and it was better than ever, with more space between tables, more light and, best of all, it was open for lunch. In fact, it was at lunch there that I saw and fell hopelessly in love with Britney Spears. (She ignored me.)
 BUT times change. I have no idea where the beautiful people went, but fewer of them were going to Morton's. (Many big players now have their own chefs.) It still drew a rich crowd, but not the famous crowd it used to have, and the gorgeous girls who used to be at the bar were gone.
 My wife and I still went there, but we saw fewer and fewer of the old gang. Yes, Jon Dolgen, formerly of Paramount, was there, and many agents from Creative Artists and Endeavor, and Edie Wasserman, Lew's widow, and Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt when they were still together. (They told me they loved my show, so I love them.) Yet, slowly but surely, it ceased to be the Hollywood center of gravity that it once was. 
 Then came disaster: Peter Morton and the landlord could not agree on terms for a new lease, and the restaurant is closing. The once-beating heart of the movie and TV biz will be gone.
 My wife and I and all of our friends are devastated. I guess we'll eat seaweed at Mr Chow. But as far as I know, there now is no Hollywood-center-of-power cafe. Mr Chow would be the closest, especially for the music business. Yet for television and movies, it's a sad, sad time. For those of us who considered Morton's as much of a home as our own kitchens, it's tragic.
 ''For one brief shining moment that was known as Camelot. ... '' Now, at least for a while, it will be an empty
 lot. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%)

COMPANY: MORTON'S RESTAURANT GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); RON MEYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



543 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: William O'Neill, 77, Dies; A Connecticut Governor

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. MADDEN

 BODY:
William Atchison O'Neill, the son of a small-town tavern owner who rose through Connecticut politics to serve as governor for a decade, died yesterday. He was 77.
 M. Jodi Rell, the current governor, announced Mr. O'Neill's death at the request of his wife, Natalie O'Neill, a spokesman for Mrs. Rell said. Mr. O'Neill died at his home in East Hampton; he suffered from emphysema.
 ''Bill O'Neill was one of the titans of Connecticut politics,'' Governor Rell said in a statement. ''No description of him would be complete without the words 'decency' and 'fairness,' and he understood that government must take its lead from the people it serves.'' 
 Mr. O'Neill became governor, he once said, through a combination of ''happenstance, luck and tragedy.''
 He had been lieutenant governor, a largely ceremonial post, for two years when the governor, Ella T. Grasso, resigned because of failing health on Dec. 31, 1980. She died of cancer five weeks later.
 ''I am in a position I never in my wildest imagination thought I would attain,'' Mr. O'Neill, a Democrat, said a few months later.
 In serving out the remaining two years of Mrs. Grasso's term, Mr. O'Neill said he felt like a caretaker trying to carry on the legacy of a highly popular governor.
 But his election as governor in his own right in 1982 appeared to mark a change in Mr. O'Neill's approach. He said he felt more comfortable in the office and took a more forceful role in negotiating legislation with the General Assembly.
 In his first three years in office, Connecticut ran persistent budget deficits.
 Starting in 1984, however, the state's economy began to prosper, allowing Mr. O'Neill's administration to embark on new programs, such as a 10-year, $5.5 billion plan to rebuild the state's roads and bridges. Mr. O'Neill called it the most comprehensive rebuilding program in the nation.
 Although the Republicans won control of both houses of the General Assembly in the 1984 elections, Mr. O'Neill was still able to claim much of the political credit for popular legislation the next year, like tax cuts and increased state aid for education. 
 Business and jobs, Mr. O'Neill maintained, ''make the whole thing go.'' Addressing the opening session of the General Assembly in 1986, when Mr. O'Neill and the legislature were up for re-election, he boasted that Connecticut had ''created the best business climate of all the 50 states.''
 Although Connecticut is overwhelmingly Democratic, Mr. O'Neill was the state's last Democratic governor. He was succeeded by Lowell P. Weicker, an independent, in 1991, followed by two Republicans, John G. Rowland and Mrs. Rell. 
 Mr. O'Neill's roots were in the small town of East Hampton, 22 miles southeast of Hartford. Born Aug. 11, 1930, he attended the town's public schools, and in 1948, entered New Britain Teacher's College, now Central Connecticut State University.
 He left after a year, deciding that he did not want to be a teacher. He worked for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, studied drafting, sold life insurance for Prudential and was a tail gunner in the Air Force during the Korean War.
 Intermittently he worked at O'Neill's Taproom, a neighborhood tavern in East Hampton that was founded by his father and later owned by the governor. The tavern's back room was sometimes used by local Democrats for meetings, and Mr. O'Neill joined the party's town committee in 1954.
 During an August 2000 interview that is part of an oral history project at Central Connecticut State University, Mr. O'Neill said the tavern had provided him with a unique perspective about people.
 ''You had all walks of life -- you had ditch diggers and you had doctors, you had them all right across the spectrum,'' he said. ''Meeting all walks of life, it broadened your horizons, let's say that.''
 Mr. O'Neill's rise in politics was doggedly persistent. He twice ran unsuccessfully for the State House of Representatives, but was elected on his third attempt, by 67 votes, in 1966. He was re-elected five times and slowly rose through the ranks to become the House majority leader in 1975.
 Mr. O'Neill was chairman of Mrs. Grasso's campaign the first time she ran for governor, in 1974. When the party's longtime chairman, John M. Bailey, died in 1975, Mr. O'Neill became the state Democratic chairman.
 In 1978, Mrs. Grasso left the choice of her running mate to the party's state convention. Mr. O'Neill, capitalizing on his party and legislative posts, outmaneuvered a field of Democrats to win the nomination, and eventually the election, as lieutenant governor.
 In an age of politicians who design their campaigns and actions to look good on television, Mr. O'Neill initially seemed to be ill at ease in his public appearances, although his speaking style -- animated and easy in small political groups, but much stiffer in larger and more formal settings -- eventually improved. 
 In an interview with the Connecticut Radio Network in March 1986, Mr. O'Neill said: ''I've never professed to be an intellectual. I don't try to be.''
 He said that while he did not have the formal education of some of his political opponents, ''I've had the school of hard knocks, and I've worked my way up to be the governor of this great state of Connecticut.
 ''I'll take a back seat to no one under those circumstances.''
 After he left office, Mr. O'Neill returned to East Hampton, near Lake Pocotopaug, with his wife.
 In January, he attended Mrs. Rell's inauguration as governor, although he required oxygen from a portable tank to aid his breathing. 
 He is survived by his wife, the former Natalie Scott Damon, known as Nikki, who taught school for many years in East Hampton. The couple had no children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. William O'Neill in West Haven, Conn., in 1986. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLLIN A. RIGGS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DEATHS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (69%); BUDGETS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



544 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN OTHER WORDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 610 words

 BODY:
Connecticut's Inequality Gap
 ''Poverty in the United States, in an absolute sense, has virtually disappeared,'' the economist Walter Williams of George Mason University wrote recently. ''Today, there's nothing remotely resembling poverty of yesteryear. However, if poverty is defined in the relative sense -- the lowest fifth of income-earners -- 'poverty' always will be with us.''
 It's important to keep that in mind when considering a report from the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire. Researchers said Connecticut had the third-largest increase in ''income inequity'' in America between 1989 and 2004, which they attributed largely to the rich getting richer. 
 Under normal economic circumstances, one would expect that most in the bottom quintile in 1989 would have moved into higher income brackets by 2004. At the same time, one would expect the real incomes of the bottom quintile would have increased the slowest.
 However, people in the bottom quintile saw their real incomes fall. We attribute that mostly to Connecticut's socialistic government policies -- raising the minimum wage, boosting welfare availability, creating and expanding the HUSKY program, taxing and regulating major employers out of the state, and so forth -- that reduced economic opportunity, stunted the growth of good-paying jobs, kept some of the lowest-income people from climbing the ladder of success and made the state a magnet to those who would want to live on the dole.
 The widening income gap, then, is less about the rich getting richer than the government keeping the poor down, even though capitalism has proved itself time and again to be far superior to socialism in raising people's standard of living.
 As Mr. Williams says, poverty will be with us always, but that doesn't condemn people to lives of destitution and despair. People move up and down the income ladder throughout their lives, so the best way to close the income-inequality gap is for government to shun policies that retard upward mobility of people in the lowest quintile.
 The Republican-American, Nov. 19
 Fairfield's 'Hanging Chads'
 The Fairfield registrar of voters, Joanne McMaster, is correct to err on the side of the voter where irregularities are concerned.
 We all remember Broward County, Fla., where the Supreme Court of the United States decided that a ''hanging chad'' did not indicate a valid vote. As a result, democracy was turned on its head and we had eight years of George W. Bush.
 Now, Fairfield is no Broward County. But the use of new opti-scan technology caused voting difficulties, voter consternation and the loss of almost 40 votes in one district.
 ''Because that's the way it's always been done'' is never a reason to stop progress, but in the case of opti-scan voting technology, perhaps levers have a little more, well, leverage.
 Some voters ''overvoted'' -- cast votes for too many candidates. In such a case, the voter is given the option of going through the apparently complex process again or rendering the entire ballot useless. Surprisingly, some voters chose to disallow their own ballots. This choice is a sign to state elections officials that opti-scan, despite the extensive voter and poll worker training that took place before the election, has some kinks.
 Under the former lever system, voters would never get a chance to re-vote. 
 Just as detrimental and potentially disastrous as stagnation and complacency is change for change's sake. When rolling out a new system for voting, no ifs, ands or buts should be up in the air. There should be no surprises. Let's leave that up to the voters.
 The Fairfield Minuteman, Nov. 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



545 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Amid Health Care Debate, Massachusetts Faces Test

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
As the Democratic presidential candidates debate whether Americans should be forced to obtain health insurance, the people of Massachusetts are living the dilemma in real time.
 A year after Massachusetts became the only state to require that individuals have health coverage, residents face deadlines to sign up or lose their personal tax exemption, worth $219 on next year's state income tax returns. More than 200,000 previously uninsured residents have enrolled, but state officials estimate that at least that number, and perhaps twice as many, have not.
 Those managing the enrollment effort say it has exceeded expectations. In particular, state-subsidized insurance packages offered to low-income residents have been so popular that the program's spending may exceed its budget by nearly $150 million. 
 But the reluctance of so many to enroll, along with the possible exemption of 60,000 residents who cannot afford premiums, has raised questions about whether even a mandate can guarantee truly universal coverage. 
 Additional concerns have been generated by projections that the state's insurers plan to raise rates 10 percent to 12 percent next year, twice this year's national average. That would undercut the plan's secondary goal of slowing the increase in health costs. 
 ''We're going to be very aggressive in trying to get those numbers down to single digits,'' said Jon M. Kingsdale, executive director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, the agency that markets the subsidized insurance policies. ''If we continue with double-digit inflation, I don't think health reform is sustainable.''
 The state's experience should be instructive to the presidential campaigns, and to officials in California, where Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has proposed a similar plan. Democratic leaders there initially rejected an individual mandate because labor unions argued that workers might not be able to afford coverage. They have recently reversed course, but have yet to agree with Mr. Schwarzenegger on how to finance the plan.
 Each of the three leading contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination has pledged to achieve universal health coverage, which polls show to be a priority for party voters. But as the candidates seek to differentiate themselves, a rift has emerged over whether it is possible to insure all Americans without requiring them to obtain coverage. 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator, support a mandate. It is, they say, the only way to guarantee that everyone is covered and to thereby bring down costs by spreading the country's insurance risk as broadly as possible.
 ''The sad reality is that the uninsured don't just struggle with costs themselves, they impose costs on the rest of us,'' Mrs. Clinton said in September. ''It's a hidden tax: the high cost of emergency room visits that could have been prevented by a much less expensive doctor's appointment, the cost of unpaid medical bills that lead insurance companies to raise rates on the rest of us.''
 Mr. Edwards echoed those remarks a week later. ''The reason the mandate is necessary is because you cannot have universal health care without it,'' he said. ''Does not exist, and anyone who pretends it is, is not being straight.''
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois sees it a different way. He argues there is danger in mandating coverage before it is clear it can be affordable for those at the margins. While Mr. Obama does not rule out a mandate down the road, his emphasis is on reducing costs and providing generous government subsidies to those who need them. He would mandate coverage for children. 
 That distinction set off a pointed exchange in the Democratic debate in Las Vegas on Nov. 15. ''I don't think that the problem with the American people is that they are not being forced to get health care,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The problem is they can't afford it.''
 Mrs. Clinton jabbed back, saying Mr. Obama's plan ''starts from the premise of not reaching universal health care,'' a virtual slur in the Democratic campaign. Mr. Obama responded that Mrs. Clinton had yet to explain how she would enforce a mandate. ''She is not garnishing people's wages to make sure that they have it,'' he pointed out.
 Obama strategists had been considering that point of attack for several weeks. It served the purpose, they said, not only of separating the candidates on a crucial domestic issue, but also of reinforcing their message that Mrs. Clinton does not, in Mr. Obama's words, provide ''straight answers to tough questions.''
 Mrs. Clinton discovered the peril of revealing too many policy details in 1993, when the 1,342-page health plan she developed for her husband attracted a legion of opponents. This year, she has said she would leave the particulars of enforcement to her negotiations with Congress.
 The Massachusetts plan was signed into law by former Gov. Mitt Romney, who, like each of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, does not now support a national insurance mandate. The law, which requires adults to be covered by Dec. 31, grants exemptions from the penalty if an income-based formula determines that coverage would not be affordable.
 State officials warned that if policies were not bought this month they were not likely to be in effect by the deadline. But some insurers said they would sell last-minute policies.
 The state established a mild penalty for the first year: the loss of the $219 tax exemption. But in the second year, the fine can amount to half the cost of the least expensive policy available, probably at least $1,000.
 Ann F. McEachern, 33, a waitress and student who lives in Cambridge, said she did not buy insurance this year but probably would in 2008. ''The penalty in 2007 wasn't enough to kick it up to the top of my priority list,'' Ms. McEachern said. ''It's always nice to be insured, but I think I'm at pretty low risk for anything happening to me that would be financially devastating.''
 Though officials do not yet have data to determine who the remaining uninsured are, they assume many are in the group they call ''the young invincibles.''
 ''At 27, it's not like I'm thinking, 'Oh, man, what if I need an operation down the line?' '' said Samuel B. Hagan of Lenox, a courier who remains uninsured. ''Furthest thing from my head.''
 John E. McDonough, executive director of Health Care for All, an advocacy group based here, said he found it breathtaking that political leaders were calling for an individual mandate well before there was any way to measure the success of the Massachusetts experiment.
 But Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, which studies health policy, said it had become broadly accepted ''that an individual mandate is the only alternative to government provision of coverage if you hope to achieve universal coverage.''
 That said, even Massachusetts officials acknowledge that their universal coverage plan is not likely to be universal anytime soon. 
 ''There's good evidence,'' Mr. Kingsdale said, ''whether it's buying auto insurance or wearing seat belts or motorcycle helmets, that mandates don't work 100 percent.'' He added, ''We're talking about how close you can get to 100 percent, and to me it's pretty evident you can't get as close without the mandate as you can with it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ann F. McEachern, 33, says she will accept the risk and the penalty of being uninsured this year.
 Samuel B. Hagan, 27, also uninsured, says he is not concerned about serious health problems. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); INCOME TAX (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



546 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: As Democrats See Iraq Gains, A Shift in Tone

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Jeff Zeleny and Christine Hauser contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As violence declines in Baghdad, the leading Democratic presidential candidates are undertaking a new and challenging balancing act on Iraq: acknowledging that success, trying to shift the focus to the lack of political progress there, and highlighting more domestic concerns like health care and the economy.
 Advisers to Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama say that the candidates have watched security conditions improve after the troop escalation in Iraq and concluded that it would be folly not to acknowledge those gains. At the same time, they are arguing that American casualties are still too high, that a quick withdrawal is the only way to end the war and that the so-called surge in additional troops has not paid off in political progress in Iraq.
 But the changing situation suggests for the first time that the politics of the war could shift in the general election next year, particularly if the gains continue. While the Democratic candidates are continuing to assail the war -- a popular position with many of the party's primary voters -- they run the risk that Republicans will use those critiques to attack the party's nominee in the election as defeatist and lacking faith in the American military. 
 If security continues to improve, President Bush could become less of a drag on his party, too, and Republicans may have an easier time zeroing in on other issues, such as how the Democrats have proposed raising taxes in difficult economic times. 
 ''The politics of Iraq are going to change dramatically in the general election, assuming Iraq continues to show some hopefulness,'' said Michael E. O'Hanlon, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who is a supporter of Mrs. Clinton's and a proponent of the military buildup. ''If Iraq looks at least partly salvageable, it will be important to explain as a candidate how you would salvage it -- how you would get our troops out and not lose the war. The Democrats need to be very careful with what they say and not hem themselves in.'' 
 At the same time, there is no assurance that the ebbing of violence is more than a respite or represents a real trend that could lead to lasting political stability or coax those who have fled the capital to return to their homes. Past military successes have faded with new rounds of car bombings and kidnappings, like the market bombing that killed at least eight on Friday in Baghdad.
 Neither Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama nor the other Democratic candidates have backed away from their original opposition to the troop escalation, and they all still favor a quick withdrawal from Iraq. But Mrs. Clinton, for one, has not said how quickly she would remove most combat forces from Iraq or how many she would leave there as president. Former Senator John Edwards, by contrast, has emphasized that he would remove all combat troops from the country, while Mr. Obama favors withdrawal at a rate of one to two brigades a month. Those plans stand in contrast to the latest American strategy of keeping most American combat brigades in Iraq but giving them an expanded role in training and supporting Iraqi forces.
 The Democratic candidates received a boost yesterday from a former American commander in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, who delivered the party's response to Mr. Bush's radio address. General Sanchez said that despite the security gains, there was ''no evidence'' that Iraq's leaders were working toward a peace accord. He endorsed a Democratic measure in the House to withdraw all combat troops by December 2008.
 Lately, as the killing in Baghdad and other areas has declined, the Democratic candidates have been dwelling less on the results of the troop escalation than on the lack of new government accords in Iraq -- a tonal shift from last summer and fall when American military commanders were preparing to testify before Congress asking for more time to allow the surge to show results.
 This is a delicate matter. By saying the effects of the troop escalation have not led to a healthier political environment, the candidates are tacitly acknowledging that the additional troops have, in fact, made a difference on the ground -- a viewpoint many Democratic voters might not embrace.
 ''Our troops are the best in the world; if you increase their numbers they are going to make a difference,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a statement after her aides were asked about her views on the ebbing violence in Baghdad.
 ''The fundamental point here is that the purpose of the surge was to create space for political reconciliation and that has not happened, and there is no indication that it is going to happen, or that the Iraqis will meet the political benchmarks,'' she said. ''We need to stop refereeing their civil war and start getting out of it.''
 While the war remains a top issue for many Democratic voters, the candidates are also turning to pocketbook concerns with new intensity as the nominating contests approach in January. Mrs. Clinton devoted a week to her energy plans recently, and spent Monday and Tuesday talking about the economy. Mr. Obama, meanwhile, still draws strong applause from audiences when he criticizes Congress for authorizing the war and Mr. Bush for waging it, but he is increasingly highlighting other concerns.
 ''We've never seen gas above $3 in November,'' Mr. Obama told a crowd on a recent evening in Allison, Iowa. ''People are working harder for less. Folks are maxing out on their credit cards, trying to stay afloat. People are struggling. And it doesn't seem like Washington is listening.''
 Mr. Obama's spokesman, Bill Burton, said that the reduction of violence in Iraq was ''welcome news,'' but he also noted that a record number of troops had been killed this year and that political differences among the Iraqis had not been bridged. 
 ''The best leverage we have to get Iraq's political leaders to do their job is to immediately begin to withdraw our troops,'' Mr. Burton said.
 Mr. Edwards told reporters in Des Moines on Tuesday that there was not enough political movement to justify reassessing his Iraq policy at this stage.
 ''I think the underlying question has not changed in Iraq, and that question is whether there has been any serious effort, serious movement on the political front,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Until there is political reconciliation between the Sunni and the Shia, there cannot be stability, there will not be an end to the violence. So I think that's the ultimate test, and I have seen very little progress if any on that front.''
 Mr. Edwards regularly brings up Iraq, but his focus is less on the troop escalation and more on his opponents' judgment, especially Mrs. Clinton's. He frequently lumps her in with Mr. Bush by noting her Senate votes supporting both the Iraq war and a recent resolution designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization.
 ''We've seen this movie before; we know how it ends,'' Mr. Edwards says about Iraq and Iran.
 Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., a Democratic candidate who has been praised by his rivals as a thoughtful voice on Iraq, agreed in a statement that there had been ''real progress on security'' in Iraq. On the campaign trail, though, he frames discussions of the troop escalation around his plan to create strong regional governments in Iraq, rather than talking about the declining violence as an end in itself.
 Two other Democratic contenders, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, have also insisted that there is no ''military solution'' for Iraq and that troops should be withdrawn swiftly. 
 One candidate favors withdrawing all troops immediately and unconditionally: Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico. 
 ''Let's be clear: 40 dead American troops is 40 too many,'' said Tom Reynolds, a spokesman for Mr. Richardson. ''Measuring progress through body counts is wrong. Sixty-five percent of Iraqis support killing American soldiers. There is no national political progress. None. It can only happen when we send a clear signal we are leaving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, shown with troops in Iraq, did not support a troop escalation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SGT. CURT CASHOUR/U.S. ARMY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Former Senator John Edwards regularly brings up Iraq, but focuses on his opponents' judgment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE POPE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



547 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE CITY LONG ISLAND WESTCHESTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Governor Spitzer's Holiday Cheer

 BODY:
After a recent nose dive in the polls, Gov. Eliot Spitzer appears to be trying to sidle back into the public's good graces. He comes, as many experienced politicians have learned to do, bearing cash. In little more than a week, the governor has announced state money for upstate and down. The showering of good news for schools, the economy and the city's transportation system has become so noticeable lately that one suspects the governor was saving a lot of these announcements for his rainy days.
 And rain it has in Governor Spitzer's first year. Since he became nationally known as attorney general, and since his election by a resounding majority, Mr. Spitzer's popularity has plummeted. The problems are variously ascribed to political clumsiness or, as the Republicans have described it with some jubilation, an amazingly tin ear for what New Yorkers are trying to tell him. 
 First there was the effort to let the news media know that Joseph Bruno, the State Senate leader and the governor's Republican foe, had used state resources for political business. That effort is still being investigated by Mr. Bruno and by the state's new ethics commission, which could issue its report soon. 
 As details emerge, it becomes clearer that Mr. Spitzer's problem was, as is too often the case, a matter of his staff's clumsy attempts to cover up their mistakes. What his aides were really trying to do made some sense: they wanted the news media to write about how Mr. Bruno was misusing state helicopters and cars. But this was no smooth operation, as it turned out. And now the governor will have to err on the side of openness, even when dealing with political antagonists using their senatorial powers to investigate him. 
 A more dispiriting reason for Mr. Spitzer's plunge in the polls was his proposal to provide driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants. This worthy idea swept Mr. Spitzer into the nation's ugly battle over how to deal with these workers, and he was finally forced to retreat. Some issues, he learned the hard way, cannot be solved anywhere but Washington.
 But then came a series of good-news, cloud-lifting announcements that finally gave the governor and his friends something to cheer about. One described how money for high-need schools will be allocated across the state, including details of an agreement on how New York City would spend $258 million on its poorer schools. (It is true we already knew the basics, but the details earned the governor a nice press conference.). 
 Mr. Spitzer also joined in announcing $1.3 billion in federal money for the long-awaited Second Avenue Subway along Manhattan's East Side. And he tried hard to take credit for keeping the subway fare for a single ride at $2 per person.
 Mr. Spitzer's press briefing on the subway fare could come back to haunt him. For starters, he seemed to grab most of the limelight for himself; other politicians who might have wanted to share it somehow did not make it to the photo-op. And it is not clear whether the deal won't ultimately cost some riders discounts they now enjoy, or even whether it is merely a temporary reprieve, with higher fares coming later.
 But hey, this is not the time to dwell on possible catastrophes. This is the holiday season, a time to hand out candy and peddle good news, a time for an embattled governor to think about anything other than the disastrous last six months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LAWYERS (68%); ETHICS (66%); IMMIGRATION (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (55%); HELICOPTERS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



548 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Erin Holt, Patrick Sloane

 BODY:
Erin Gentry Holt, a daughter of Joyce Gentry Holt and Michael F. Holt of Charlottesville, Va., was married yesterday in Healdsburg, Calif., to George Patrick Harvey Ingalls Sloane, a son of Kathleen McNally Sloane and Dr. G. Harvey I. Sloane of New York and Washington. Judge Michael Daly Hawkins of the Federal Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, for whom the bride was a clerk, officiated at Barndiva, a restaurant. 
 Mrs. Sloane, 30, is an associate in the New York office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr, a Washington law firm. She graduated from the University of Virginia and received her law degree from New York University. 
 Her father is the Langbourne M. Williams professor of American history at the University of Virginia and is the author of ''The Rise and Fall of the American Whig Party: Jacksonian Politics and the Onset of the Civil War.'' Her mother is the program coordinator of the John M. Olin Program in Law and Economics, which is at the University of Virginia School of Law and supports research and holds conferences, workshops and lectures.
 Mr. Sloane, 31, is a vice president in New York for investment management of institutional and private clients in the Smith Barney brokerage unit of Citigroup and is a member of the editorial advisory board of Americas Quarterly, a publication of the Americas Society and Council of the Americas. He graduated from George Washington University. 
 His mother is a managing director and a senior vice president for residential sales at Brown Harris Stevens, a New York real estate concern, and is a director of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, which administers the Roosevelt Presidential Library in Hyde Park, N.Y. 
 His father is the public health director at the Eurasian Medical Education Program, a partnership, in Washington, of the Institute for Health Policy Analysis and the American College of Physicians that provides professional medical education to Russian doctors. He was the mayor of Louisville, Ky., from 1973 to 1977 and from 1982 to 1986, and the commissioner of public health in Washington from 1995 to 1997. He is also a trustee of the Century Foundation, a research and public policy institute in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HISTORY (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WRITERS (69%); LIBRARIES (66%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); APPEALS COURTS (57%)

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (91%); COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (54%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL D HAWKINS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



549 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Ally of Bush Is Defeated in Australia

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
Australia's prime minister, John Howard, one of President Bush's staunchest allies in Asia, suffered a comprehensive defeat at the hands of the electorate on Saturday, as his Liberal Party-led coalition lost its majority in Parliament.
 He will be replaced by Kevin Rudd, the Labor Party leader and a former diplomat. ''Today Australia looks to the future,'' Mr. Rudd told a cheering crowd in his home state, Queensland. ''Today the Australian people have decided that we as a nation will move forward.'' 
 Mr. Howard's defeat, after 11 years in power, follows that of Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, who also backed the United States-led invasion of Iraq, and political setbacks for Tony Blair, who stepped down as Britain's prime minister in June.
 Mr. Howard conceded nearly two hours after the last polling booths closed in the west of the country.
 ''A few moments ago I telephoned Mr. Kevin Rudd and I congratulated him and the Australian Labor Party on a very emphatic victory,'' Mr. Howard told a room of emotional supporters. 
 ''I leave the office of prime minister with our country prouder, stronger and more prosperous than ever,'' he said.
 Returns for a small number of seats are yet to be compiled, but analysts estimate that over all the Labor Party gained 28 seats to win a comfortable 22-seat majority in the 150-seat lower house of Parliament, where governments are formed. Official results are expected within the next day or two.
 Mr. Howard may suffer the indignity of losing his own seat, representing a district on Sydney's north shore, which he has held for 33 years, to a former television anchor and rookie politician. He would be the first sitting prime minister to lose his seat since 1929.
 It was a bruising campaign, and the Liberal Party has said it will challenge some results on the grounds that the Labor candidates had broken electoral law by failing to resign from government jobs before running for office. The Labor Party said it had broken no laws.
 Mr. Rudd, 50, campaigned on a platform of new leadership to address broad concerns about the environment, health and education. He has said his first acts as prime minister would include pushing for the ratification of the Kyoto agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and negotiating the withdrawal of Australia's 500 troops from Iraq.
 Analysts said the leadership change was unlikely to bring a radically new foreign policy, although they expected a shift in emphasis in the relationship with the United States, Australia's closest ally. ''Australia will remain a close ally of the United States, and Rudd remains committed to the alliance,'' said Michael Fullilove, of the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney. But he noted that ''if there is a Democratic administration elected next year, to some extent they would become closer.''
 Mr. Howard has a strong personal relationship with Mr. Bush that is based on a similar socially conservative philosophy and a shared outlook on terrorism. 
 Australian opinion polls have shown that although Australians remain strong supporters of the so-called Anzus alliance -- the security pact among Australia, New Zealand and the United States -- they do not approve of Mr. Bush or the Iraq war.
 The attempts by Mr. Howard's coalition to stress its economic record apparently failed to impress voters. The Australian economy has had 17 years of continuous growth, lately driven by Chinese demand for Australian iron ore and coal. Mr. Howard had warned voters that a Labor victory would endanger the country's prosperity.
 Despite the coalition campaign, there was little distance between the parties on economic policy, and the defining characteristics came down to the personalities of the leaders. Mr. Howard was running for a fifth term, and many voters said they were ready for a change. 
 ''Howard is out of touch,'' said George Varvaressos, 52, who voted in eastern Sydney on Saturday morning. ''It's the arrogance of being in power for too long -- he hasn't been listening.''
 If Australia's strongest military and political alliance is with Washington, the fuel for its economy is coming from China. Mr. Fullilove says Mr. Rudd's ability to manage the relationship among Canberra, Washington and Beijing will be crucial.
 Mr. Rudd, 18 years younger than Mr. Howard, has a reputation as a cerebral student of policy, as opposed to the Liberal leader's image of a hardened and aggressive political animal.
 ''He seems more personable, approachable. He doesn't seem arrogant -- yet -- and I have respect for him,'' said Marcelle Freiman, who voted for Mr. Rudd in eastern Sydney on Saturday.
 Mr. Rudd's dry image was altered by the news that he had visited a strip club during a trip to New York in 2003.
 He was a diplomat in Beijing and speaks Mandarin. He impressed many with a fluent address to President Hu Jintao of China when Mr. Hu visited Australia in September.
 Mr. Fullilove said Mr. Rudd's experience regarding China was unlikely to make a significant difference to Australia's relationship with the United States. ''I would counsel against people assuming that because Kevin Rudd speaks Mandarin there would be a big rebalancing of the relationship in favor of Beijing,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Rudd and his wife, Therese Rein, in Brisbane. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORSTEN BLACKWOOD/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); EMISSIONS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

PERSON: KEVIN RUDD (90%); JOHN HOWARD (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (79%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



550 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3590 words

HEADLINE: Payload: Taking Aim At Corporate Bribery

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and LOWELL BERGMAN; Marlena Telvick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LATE last month, five jumbo jets from Riyadh touched down at Heathrow Airport in London. They brought with them 13 members of the Saudi royal family, including King Abdullah and his retainers -- and controversy. Over the last four years, the British government has been dogged by criticism of its relationship with Saudi Arabia, which is Britain's biggest trading partner in the Middle East.
 The state visit, the first by a Saudi monarch in 20 years, was no exception, with much of the storm centering on controversial financial ties linking the British military contracting giant, BAE Systems, to Downing Street and the desert kingdom. The leader of one major British political party boycotted King Abdullah's visit while protesters turned out for his ceremonial carriage ride to Buckingham Palace.
 Much of the debate turns on the fact that BAE made billions of dollars in clandestine and questionable payments to Saudi royals over the last 20 years as part of an $80 billion contract to supply the kingdom with advanced fighter jets and other military hardware. While the investigation of BAE's business practices has followed a circuitous path in Britain, it has recently gained independent momentum in the United States, where the Justice Department is now investigating the company. 
 BAE generates nearly half its revenue in the United States, and it recently acquired a major supplier of armored Humvees used by American forces in Iraq. American officials who were granted anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter said the Justice Department is examining whether BAE violated domestic laws banning international bribery and money laundering. Accounts in Switzerland, the Caribbean and elsewhere are involved, and, like Britain, the United States has a strategic relationship with the Saudis that the investigation threatens.
 Although the cast of players in the BAE story is unusually broad -- it includes Saudi royals like Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the kingdom's former ambassador to the United States, as well as Tony Blair, the former British prime minister -- the investigation is but one in a bounty of cases that the Justice Department recently started under a once-obscure law called the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (or F.C.P.A.).
 BAE and the Saudis have openly acknowledged the payments at the center of the investigation, deny any wrongdoing and say that the payments were known to the British and Saudi governments. ''We are aware of the U.S. D.O.J. investigation and we are fully cooperating,'' a BAE spokeswoman said. ''As it is an ongoing investigation, we cannot comment any further.''
 While the BAE investigation apparently ran aground in Britain, it has gained enough interest in the United States to cause some of those in the middle of it to secure high-profile legal advisers. Prince Bandar, a confidant of the Bush family, recently retained the former Federal Bureau of Investigation director Louis J. Freeh, as well as one of the fathers of the F.C.P.A., the retired federal judge Stanley Sporkin, to represent him. 
 ''There have been no charges filed,'' Mr. Freeh said in an interview. ''The prince denies any impropriety and violating any statutes in the United Kingdom or the United States.''
 The revelation that British investigators had discovered that BAE deposited $2 billion in payments into Prince Bandar's Washington bank accounts led the Justice Department to enter what analysts describe as the highest-profile F.C.P.A. case to date. Passed by Congress three decades ago in the wake of Watergate, it is only in the last five years that the F.C.P.A. has become a powerful tool for prosecuting domestic and overseas companies suspected of bribing foreign officials to secure business. 
 Justice Department officials estimate that there are about 60 such cases under investigation or prosecution in the United States, with a new, five-member F.B.I. team dedicated to examining possible violations of the act. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group based in Paris that represents 30 industrialized countries, there are more than 150 prosecutions or investigations worldwide involving possible bribery of government officials for commercial gain.
 While law enforcement officials and governments in disparate jurisdictions once hesitated to work together to combat corporate fraud, graft has come to be seen as such a severe impediment to global economic growth that cooperation is becoming more frequent. 
 Analysts say that this shift, along with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley law tightening corporate oversight -- and a greater willingness among companies themselves to tackle corruption -- has also begun to change how many corporations operate in poorer, developing countries where graft has been most detrimental.
 Lawyers, prosecutors and corporate executives in the United States and abroad say they are closely watching the BAE investigation because it offers a test of how aggressively anti-corruption initiatives will be pursued globally, particularly in countries like Britain and Japan that have resisted enforcing such efforts. ''The BAE case is a watershed moment,'' says Mark Pieth, who oversees anti-bribery efforts for the O.E.C.D. ''Large multinationals in many countries have come to us and told us that.''
 FOR BAE, the fact that billions in payments to Prince Bandar and his relatives might be considered bribes means more than just the potential imposition of heavy fines. It may also mean, analysts say, that BAE executives potentially could go to prison and the company might find itself barred from doing business with the United States government.
 The taint of bribery scandals in emerging markets could also have bruising financial implications for BAE. In regions of the world where bribe-taking has long been baked into business transactions -- East Asia, the former Soviet Union, Africa and Latin America, for example -- legal investigations could make the company vulnerable as those areas become more desirable for military contractors looking for new clients.
 For companies that have not adapted to the new legal landscape, the consequences are becoming more serious. This year, Baker Hughes, the oil services company, paid a record $44 million fine after admitting that it had bribed officials in Kazakhstan, Angola, Russia, Nigeria and elsewhere. 
 Halliburton, an oil services giant that was once headed by Vice President Dick Cheney, has disclosed that it is facing an F.C.P.A. investigation into its activities in Nigeria before, during and after Mr. Cheney's tenure at the company. A spokeswoman for the vice president declined to comment. Halliburton did not respond to an interview request.
 Aon, a major insurance broker, recently disclosed in corporate filings that it is the subject of an F.C.P.A. inquiry but declined to provide further details. Last month, the Willbros Group, an oil services company, said it would pay $32 million to settle an F.C.P.A. charge related to bribes paid in Nigeria and elsewhere -- including $1 million handed over in a suitcase. A former Willbros executive who pleaded guilty to federal charges in the case faces a prison sentence of as much as five years. While executives involved in paying bribes can be jailed, foreign officials cannot be charged under the law.
 ''The F.C.P.A. has now surpassed Sarbanes-Oxley for being at the nerve endings of corporate general counsels and executives,'' says Daniel E. Karson, executive managing director at Kroll Associates, a private investigative firm that conducts due diligence and background investigations for corporations and other clients. 
 Last week, Alice Fisher, assistant attorney general and head of the Justice Department's criminal division, traveled to Rome for an anticorruption conference marking the 10th anniversary of the O.E.C.D.'s adoption of anti-bribery regulations, which parallel the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 
 Ms. Fisher, who declined to comment on the BAE case, said her F.C.P.A. caseload this year was running at twice last year's pace, and she predicted that the upward trend would continue in 2008. She said she planned to press her overseas law enforcement counterparts in Rome for continued collaboration to combat corporate bribery. 
 ''I don't take many foreign trips, but this is important to the overall program,'' she said. ''There are a lot of countries that can do more.''
 ONE of those countries, ironically, is Britain, usually among the closest of allies of the United States. Historically, according to documents in British government archives, Britain, long dependent on foreign trade, has resisted anticorruption efforts because it believes that they undermine the country's business interests abroad.
 After a series of articles in 2003 and 2004 in The Guardian, the British newspaper, about possible bribes and other improprieties involving BAE, the Serious Fraud Office of Britain started an official investigation. But after the Saudi government strongly objected to the investigation, Mr. Blair, then the prime minister, ordered it halted late last year on security grounds. 
 ''The result would have been devastating for our relationship with an important country with whom we cooperate closely on terrorism, on security, on the Middle East peace process,'' Mr. Blair said at a news conference. ''That is leaving aside the thousands of jobs which would have been lost, which is not the consideration in this case, but I just point it out.''
 The British High Court recently ordered a full judicial review of Mr. Blair's decision not to pursue the BAE investigation. Meanwhile, the Justice Department's BAE investigation has benefited from cooperation by law enforcement agencies elsewhere in Europe, according to people with direct knowledge of the inquiry. A decade ago, such cooperation would have been impossible because many European governments considered corporate bribery tolerable -- and in the case of Germany, even made it tax-deductible, as ''schmear gelt,'' or ''grease money.''
 Since then, German authorities have become particularly aggressive in pursuing possible corruption violations, as illustrated through their continuing investigation of Siemens AG, the German industrial conglomerate. Although some American companies once actively lobbied to water down the F.C.P.A., arguing that it made it hard to compete overseas, many corporations here have now thrown their weight behind it in the belief that it can be used to prevent competitors from indulging in bribes. So anti-corruption efforts in the United States are now gathering legal steam.
 ''There has been a dramatic increase in the resources dedicated to enforcing the law by the Justice Department and the F.B.I., and even more important, a strong public commitment to compliance as well as enforcement,'' says Peter B. Clark, who oversaw F.C.P.A. prosecutions at the Justice Department from the enactment of the law in 1977 until his retirement two years ago. 
 According to top Justice Department officials, strengthening F.C.P.A. enforcement isn't only about getting American companies to clean up their act or punishing foreign enterprises for breaking domestic laws. It is also part of an attempt to deal with the long-term impact that bribery has on emerging markets.
 ''Corruption undercuts democracy, stifles economic growth and creates an uneven playing field for U.S. companies overseas,'' Ms. Fisher says. ''We are facing transnational crime all over the place.''
 Any company with an American connection -- a listing on the New York Stock Exchange, for example, or the use of an American bank account to transfer suspect payments -- opens the door for prosecution under the F.C.P.A. For example, the Justice Department began investigating BAE's payments to the Saudi royals, and Prince Bandar in particular, this year, after it learned that BAE deposited billions of dollars in such payments in American banks. 
 Among those institutions was Riggs Bank. Riggs, a subsidiary of the Riggs National Corporation, paid $41 million in federal penalties in 2004 and 2005 to settle a high-profile federal investigation of money-laundering violations before it was taken over by the PNC Financial Services Group. A PNC spokesman declined to comment directly on the BAE matter, but said that any possible transgressions occurred before the takeover and that Riggs was required to divest units catering to diplomats and foreign clients before the buyout. 
 ON a rainy morning this August, an unusual visitor arrived at the Justice Department's headquarters in Washington. Although a British citizen, he had, for security reasons, taken a circuitous route via Paris to meet with senior Justice Department prosecutors, F.B.I. agents and members of the criminal division of the Internal Revenue Service.
 During two days of questioning in a windowless conference room, that visitor, Peter Gardiner, detailed how he had helped BAE disburse millions to the Saudi royal family to pay for everything from luxury travel to female escorts, according to people with knowledge of the meeting who insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the case. 
 Much of the money Mr. Gardiner said he had disbursed went to cover expenses racked up by Prince Turki bin Nasser, head of the Saudi air force and a major BAE customer. Other funds were earmarked for the honeymoon of Prince Bandar's daughter. Mr. Gardiner owned a travel agency that catered to the needs of BAE and its Saudi customers, and his information about their dealings has been known to British authorities for some time. It was also a primary basis for some of The Guardian's articles about the matter.
 But the meetings, on Aug. 20 and 21, signaled that the Justice Department had moved beyond asking London for assistance with the investigation to interviewing witnesses and collecting documents directly, based on the belief that BAE's payments may have violated United States laws banning international bribery and money laundering.
 When contacted for an interview about the meetings, Mr. Gardiner said that the Justice Department had asked him not to comment.
 In September, about 10 months after Mr. Blair quashed the BAE investigation in Britain, the company won a new contract to supply Typhoon jets to Saudi Arabia; the deal could amount to $60 billion over the next 25 years, according to trade publications. 
 By the time Mr. Blair shut down the British investigation late last year, however, the Justice Department was already aware of BAE's practices. As far back as July 2002, representatives from the State, Justice and Defense departments, as well as the C.I.A., sat down in Washington with senior British officials from the Ministry of Defense to complain about suspected bribery by BAE in Central Europe, the Persian Gulf and South Africa. 
 Sir Kevin Tebbit, then Britain's permanent under secretary of the Ministry of Defense, rejected the suspicions as baseless. American officials who participated in the meeting later nicknamed him Sir Topham Hatt after a character in the Thomas the Tank Engine children's series because of what they said was ''his almost haughty disdain for the allegations of bribery involving BAE'' and the manner in which he challenged them to detail evidence of wrongdoing. 
 Mr. Tebbit, now retired, declined to comment and referred questions about his interactions with American officials to his former employers in the Ministry of Defense. The ministry declined to comment.
 The meeting with Mr. Tebbit came after the United States Defense Department, along with the military contractors Lockheed and Boeing, formally withdrew from a competition to sell fighter aircraft to the Czech Republic in 2001. A letter written by Lt. Gen. Tome H. Walters Jr., then head of overseas sales for the Pentagon, to the Czech foreign minister said that there was a ''lack of transparency'' in the negotiations. The letter also cited a conclusion by the United States government that competition for the contract was not above board. The contract was subsequently awarded to BAE and its Swedish partner, Saab.
 In an interview, General Walters, now retired, said that the problems in the Czech Republic followed similar problems trying to sell American jets to the Hungarian government. BAE secured the Hungarian contract as well. American officials say they believe that the Hungarian and Czech governments were influenced by payments. They cite a C.I.A. briefing during which they were told that BAE paid millions of dollars to the major political parties in Hungary to win the contracts there. 
 BAE said it is unaware of any investigations of the company in Hungary. ''BAE Systems has very strong policies and processes in place which it is clearly committed to communicating to its employees and advisers,'' a spokesman said. ''Any action which is unlawful, dishonest, harmful to others or otherwise against our policies, is unacceptable.''
 Although Mr. Gardiner's cooperation signaled a possible escalation in the American investigation, those with knowledge of the inquiry say British authorities are resisting requests from Washington for help. Representatives of the Home Office of Britain, which handles these requests, have told Parliament that they have yet to decide whether to cooperate.
 Despite tensions between the United States and Britain over the matter, Swiss law enforcement authorities have decided to cooperate with the Justice Department investigation, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The Swiss are likely to soon begin sharing records of financial transactions and bank accounts with American prosecutors. That will be crucial to charting what law enforcement officials describe as a flow of dollars from BAE to a network of company agents and public officials in Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
 So far, the American investigation hasn't harmed BAE's booming business with the Pentagon. This summer, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, citing the inquiry, objected to BAE's purchase of Armor Holdings, which makes armored Humvees and other military equipment, in letters to the Justice Department and the Treasury Department. But the Armor Holdings sale was completed in July for $4.5 billion. 
 DESPITE the new fondness for the F.C.P.A. in domestic law enforcement circles, the cases are notoriously complex to prosecute and are made even more so by the fact that many overseas jurisdictions are involved. Even in an era of increasing cooperation, internal politics in other countries can become roadblocks.
 ''The rhetoric has changed,'' says Benjamin W. Heineman Jr., who was General Electric's chief legal officer from 1987 to 2005. ''Everybody says the right thing now, but what are they doing?''
 Mr. Heineman praises the Justice Department's efforts but says he is frustrated that the O.E.C.D. isn't doing even more, especially in the BAE case. ''They don't powerfully name and shame the laggards,'' he says.
 The threat of an indictment under the F.C.P.A., more than financial penalties, is what worries most companies that may come under scrutiny as part of the Justice Department's crackdown on bribery. 
 ''No publicly traded company wants to be branded with the stigma of an indictment,'' says David Zornow, who directs the white-collar criminal practice in New York for the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. ''It's potentially ruinous.''
 Multinational companies competing in these countries are turning to law and accounting firms as well corporate investigators like Kroll to help them navigate through the F.C.P.A.'s regulations and to vet local partners in countries like China and Nigeria.
 PricewaterhouseCoopers has doubled the size of its F.C.P.A. practice over the past five years. Deloitte & Touche has mobilized in a similar way. It says that when it scrutinizes companies for possible bribery problems, it looks for such red flags as tuition payments for the children of government administrators, property purchases or rentals from foreign officials or their relatives, and payments in exchange for information about competitor's activities. 
 Lawyers with experience in F.C.P.A. cases say that gathering facts in such matters is never easy. Kevin T. Abikoff, a lawyer at Hughes, Hubbard & Reed who has represented several companies accused of running afoul of the F.C.P.A. in Nigeria, says that large companies typically cut employees loose once they are charged with a crime. 
 ''It's a rare person who says, 'It was me; it's my fault,''' he says. ''There's finger-pointing up, down and sideways.''
 During the O.E.C.D. anti-corruption meeting in Rome last week, which celebrated the 10th anniversary of the organization's treaty outlawing international bribery, its head, Angel Gurria, said that national security concerns -- the reason Mr. Blair gave for terminating the BAE investigation in Britain -- ''should not be used'' as a reason for quashing bribery investigations. He also voiced concern that anti-corruption efforts were in danger of weakening.
 ''Now I do not want to spoil the birthday party, but I do have to say that what we have achieved is still not good enough,'' he added. ''There will be big risks that countries will go back to doing 'business as usual,' including corruption. The only way to prevent this is to ensure that everyone plays by the same rules.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about international corporate bribery rendered an expression incorrectly. The word meant to signify a bribe, or ''grease money,'' in German should have been Schmiergeld, not ''schmear gelt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and Prince Philip of Britain in October during the king's state visit to London. It was the first state visit by a Saudi monarch in two decades.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY FIONA HANSON)
People protesting the British government's relationship with Saudi Arabia and BAE when King Abdullah visited London.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAN MEYER/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. BU10) DRAWING (pg. BU1)
MAP: The Overseas Reach Of the BAE Investigation.(Sources: American and European law enforcement officials
 corporate filings)(pg. BU9) Map details various areas of Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); BRIBERY (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%)

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%)

TICKER: BA (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); PRINCE PHILIP (57%); TONY BLAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



551 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: The Church In England: Downright Un-American

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT

DATELINE: BATH, England 

 BODY:
 LAST week, Tony Blair outlined his plans for easing the economic crisis in Gaza, in his role as a Middle East facilitator. And that's all he is these days, a long step down from the prime minister's office, which he resigned last summer. The point was made bluntly then by a State Department spokesman, Tom Casey: ''There's certainly no envisioning that this individual would be a negotiator between the Israelis and Palestinians.''
 Learning to accept such slights with humility is said to be one of the consolations of religion, and Mr. Blair is evidently about to take an important step on his personal path, which he discussed with Pope Benedict XVI, it was reported, on his last visit to Rome as prime minister.
 The authoritative Catholic paper The Tablet of London now writes that, some time before Christmas, Anthony Charles Lynton Blair will at last be received into the Roman Catholic Church by Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor, the leader of the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales. 
 The historical resonances and political overtones of this are as significant as the event itself -- which also illustrates again the great trans-Atlantic gulf. Not only are the English now a notably irreligious people; in striking contrast to America, religion plays no part in British political life. 
 For years it has been rumored that Blair would one day convert, the culmination of a journey that began when he discovered religion at Oxford. An Australian clergymen named Peter Thomson introduced him to the work of another writer. ''If you really want to understand what I'm all about, you have to take a look at a guy called John Macmurray,'' Mr. Blair has said. ''It's all there.''
 Little read now, Macmurray was an academic theologian and proponent of ''communitarianism'' who died at 85 in 1976. Not everyone was as enthusiastic as Mr. Blair. George Orwell, for one, was suspicious of Macmurray as a ''decayed liberal'' who was even susceptible to totalitarian rhetoric. 
 However that may be, Mr. Blair joined the High or ''Anglo-Catholic'' wing of the Church of England, whose adherents, from John Henry Newman on, have been inclined ''to pope'' (as they used to say) and go the whole way. His wife, Cherie Booth, is a Catholic, and for years he went to Mass with her and their children, even taking holy communion, irregularly and sacrilegiously in Catholic eyes. 
 All of which sets him far apart from his compatriots. When an interviewer once tried to raise the question of faith, Mr. Blair's press officer, Alastair Campbell, snapped, ''We don't do God,'' and on that occasion at least he was quite right.
 By contrast with the United States, whose First Amendment prohibits any establishment of religion, there is a Church of England ''by law established,'' with the queen as its supreme governor. And yet, while polls indicate that nearly half of Americans go to church each week, services of this established church are now regularly attended by fewer than 2 per cent of the English population, while the total for all Christian churches is around 7 per cent. (Islam is another matter: Muslims attending Friday prayers in Great Britain may soon outnumber all churchgoing Christians.)
 We British not only don't do God, we are effectively a pagan nation -- and that goes for our politicians. Even when England was truly Protestant, that was more in terms of hostility to Catholicism than theological precision or zeal, and to this day the public displays of piety that are normal enough in America would be embarrassing here. 
 No British prime minister has been a Catholic, and it would have been politically very difficult for Mr. Blair to convert when he was in office (think of Northern Ireland, apart from anything else). A neglected footnote to our history is that a majority of prime ministers for the past century were by origin Protestant Dissenters, in the old term, from outside the Church of England: H. H. Asquith grew up as a Congregationalist; David Lloyd George a Baptist; Neville Chamberlain a Unitarian; Harold Wilson and Margaret Thatcher Methodists.
 More to the point, only a minority of 20th-century prime ministers were Christians as adults, having any serious personal religion. The impious majority includes Winston Churchill. His ''Macmurray'' was Winwood Reade, who wrote a once-famous book published in 1872. ''The Martyrdom of Man'' was called ''a bible for secularists,'' though Nietzsche-and-water might be better: Churchill learned from Reade that God is dead and that man is master of his own destiny in a cruel world.
 Of course, Churchill paid lip service to the outward forms -- christenings, weddings and funerals in church -- and he would invoke the Almighty rhetorically. But neither he nor other British pols ever made an open parade of faith, certainly not in the way that United States presidential candidates are obliged to. And it's very hard to imagine an American equivalent of Norman Tebbit. 
 As cabinet minister and Conservative party chairman in the 1980s, Mr. Tebbit was one of Mrs. Thatcher's most effective lieutenants, a tough, populist right-winger -- and a self-proclaimed atheist. Even the believing prime ministers kept politics and religion separate: Harold Macmillan was a pious High Churchman, and he used to say that if the people want moral guidance they should get it from their bishops, not their politicians.
 For centuries, England was certainly infused with political Protestantism, in the sense of antipathy to the Roman Church. In 1780, London was swept by the ''No-Popery'' Gordon Riots (see Dickens's ''Barnaby Rudge''), and in 1850 Lord John Russell tried to prevent the re-establishment of a Catholic hierarchy in England. That tradition lingered longer than you might think.
 In 1945, Labor won a landslide election (to the astonishment of the defeated Churchill), sweeping every industrial district and large town, with one exception. Labor had acquired a large Irish-Catholic vote, while the Conservatives held on to the ultra-Protestant constituency. And so it was that in that year of Labor's triumph the Tories still won a majority of seats in Liverpool (Cherie Booth Blair's native city), thanks to the anti-Catholic ''Orange vote'' there. 
 Today, that kind of sentiment is quite vanished outside Ulster, and there will be no vehement demonstrations against Rome's latest illustrious convert. Still, what Tony Blair has said is his strength has also been seen as a weakness.
 ''Far from lacking conviction,'' said the late Roy Jenkins -- the Labor politician who became a founder of the Social Democrats, and who originally admired Mr. Blair -- ''he has almost too much.'' Mr. Blair has nearly admitted as much: ''I only know what I believe.'' And those words may indeed explain a great deal about him, well beyond his new ecclesiastical affiliation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN PRAYER: Tony Blair was more pious than most recent British prime ministers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN EVANS/REUTERS -- CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WRITERS (68%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); ROME, ITALY (56%) ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); WALES (79%); ITALY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007



552 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: ARMCHAIR TRAVELER

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:
''Sacred Sea: A Journey to Lake Baikal''
By Peter Thomson
 Oxford University Press, 336 pages, $29.95 hardcover
 Russians sing patriotic hymns about Lake Baikal, and with good reason. Their ''sacred sea'' is the oldest lake on earth (more than 25 million years) as well as the deepest (more than one mile) and the largest by volume, holding so much fresh water it could swallow Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie and Ontario and still be thirsty. 
 Situated in southern Siberia and surrounded on all sides by mountains, this crescent-shaped wilderness remained isolated from civilization until the early 20th century, when the Trans-Siberian Railroad laid track along its southwest flank. Even now, the doughty tourists it attracts have to overcome a gimcrack travel network. What few paved roads exist are cratered with potholes. Villages of log cabins along its shores have never known automobiles. 
 The journalist Peter Thomson knew next to nothing about Baikal before reading a seductive article praising its pristine wonders in a 1992 issue of National Geographic. Eight years later, recently divorced and living out of boxes in his father's house in Boston (''even my cat was in foster care''), he quit his job as an environmental news producer for NPR and talked his younger half-brother into joining him on a round-the-world trip to a place where neither of them understood the language or the culture. 
 The result is this superb paean to a unique and bizarre ecosystem. A laboratory of evolution, Lake Baikal is home to hundreds of plants and animals found nowhere else. Mr. Thomson investigates the biochemistry behind the myth that the lake's water purifies itself. (Russian scientists think the secret lies with a miniature shrimp that filters industrial pollutants, of which tons were introduced during Soviet rule.) 
 Careful not to prescribe development scenarios from the comforts of America (''Baikal, Too, Must Work'' is the title of the last section, on the economic history of the region), Mr. Thomson clearly favors low-impact tourism as the optimal model for the future. The lake's remoteness has so far preserved it from becoming Tahoe or Banff. ''Bad roads are good for Baikal,'' says a local. 
 Mr. Thomson is a trustworthy companion on these matters, but he has also written a compelling diary of personal discovery that reads like a manifesto about travel as a blessing in itself. Curiosity alone seems to have guided his footsteps. Wagering whim and risk over common sense was in this case the right move, for him and for us. The mottoes that speed him on his way are still valid at the end on his journey: ''Good things happen. Kind strangers present themselves. Faith is rewarded.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (91%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WRITERS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009



553 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD Nov. 25--Dec. 1

 BODY:
Dance
 Claudia La Rocco
This is the time of year for hoary dance classics: New York City Ballet's ''Nutcracker,'' Alvin Ailey's ''Revelations,'' ''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular.'' But starting tomorrow the MOVEMENT RESEARCH FALL FESTIVAL is going another route, focusing on the ephemeral, of-the-moment act of improvisation as a contemporary performance practice. Its week of classes and workshops runs the gamut from explorations of contact improvisation (created in the 1970s by Steve Paxton, this is about as close to an improvisational classic as you'll find) to a ''DEEP Aerobics'' class (for Death Electric Emo Protest) with Miguel Gutierrez. Mr. Gutierrez requests that students come in costume for the session and describes this new workout form, on the Movement Research Web site, as being for ''anyone who has ever had the interest in combining the joie de vivre that is the vigorous bouncing of one's anatomical/spiritual/energetic molecules with the existential absurdity that is living in a world/country/economic system of injustice, war-mongering and cultural ineptitude.'' 
 Additionally, on Dec. 3, the last day of the festival, Margaret Paek will lead a free studies project on improvisational practices at the Judson Church Meeting Hall. And, finally, to see how the experts do it, there will be three nights of works by an array of performers including, on the final night, an open improvisation featuring festival participants past and present. Performances are Thursday through Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15. Information on classes, workshops and the studies project: (212) 598-0551, Ext. 1, movementresearch.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); CHRISTMAS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



554 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Thompson Calls for Option Of a Simplified Income Tax

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
Fred D. Thompson recommended yesterday that people have the option to pay a simplified tax on their income.
 The proposal was part of Mr. Thompson's plan to overhaul the nation's tax code. 
 Mr. Thompson, who is seeking the Republican nomination for president, would allow individuals and families to stay with the existing tax structure or to choose to have their earnings taxed under a system with only two rates -- 10 percent on income of up to $100,000 for joint filers and $50,000 for singles, and 25 percent on income above these amounts. 
 The proposal has been advocated by, among others, the Republican Study Committee, a conservative caucus in the House of Representatives.
 An analysis by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, which looked into the kind of plan Mr. Thompson proposed, found that the federal government would stand to lose at least $2.5 trillion in revenue over 10 years.
 But Mr. Thompson, a former senator from Tennessee, said in an interview yesterday on ''Fox News Sunday'' that such studies ''always overestimate the losses to the government'' and that tax cuts would spur the economy, leading eventually to greater revenues.
 Mr. Thompson's proposal is the most specific yet among the leading Republican candidates in support of a flat tax. Rudolph W. Giuliani, for one, had assailed the flat tax while he was mayor of New York but recently spoke in favor of it without endorsing a specific plan.
 In detailing his plan, Mr. Thompson joined other leading Republicans in calling for making permanent the tax cuts instituted during the Bush administration and repealing the estate tax. He also called for reducing the corporate tax rate to 27 percent from 35 percent.
 Additionally, Mr. Thompson favors abolishing the alternative minimum tax, which was created to make sure that the wealthiest Americans did not use loopholes and deductions to avoid paying their share of taxes.
 While many Democrats and Republicans agree on the need to revise the structure of the tax since it has increasingly been hitting upper-middle-income families, scrapping it would cost the government billions of dollars in revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX REFORM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CORPORATE TAX (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



555 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Albany Bars Rent Rise for Thousands

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A loophole in New York State's rent regulations that would have led to sharp rent increases for thousands of tenants was closed last week by housing officials.
 The rule allowed landlords withdrawing from government subsidy programs to immediately bring the rent in their apartments up to market rate by claiming that exiting the programs created a ''unique and peculiar'' circumstance. 
 Normally, such landlords are limited in how much they can adjust rents each year. Citing the exception, the owners of 23 buildings in New York City and Westchester and Nassau Counties had sought permission from the state to raise the rents to market levels in 4,400 units. 
 In July, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Deborah VanAmerongen, the commissioner of the state's housing agency, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, proposed clarifying the regulation, a move applauded by tenants, housing advocates and elected officials who said the increased rents in the affected buildings would have forced many residents to move out. 
 On Wednesday, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal officially closed the loophole by amending the regulation.
 Landlords of the 23 buildings were exiting the state's Mitchell-Lama program. The program encouraged the creation of middle-income housing by offering owners low-interest mortgages and tax abatements, in return for caps on rents. It was enacted in 1955 by the New York State Legislature and named in honor of the two legislators who sponsored it, Senator MacNeil Mitchell and Assemblyman Alfred A. Lama.
 Both the old and new regulations apply only to buildings that were completed before 1974. Those buildings are required to move automatically into the rent stabilization system, which limits the size of rent increases. Buildings completed after 1974 can go to market-rate rents and require no state oversight.
 State housing officials said the ''unique and peculiar'' provision had been intended to permit rent increases in unusual situations, as when an owner sought to rent out a unit that had been occupied by a building manager or family member and therefore had an exceptionally low rent. 
 But tenant advocates said landlords of buildings leaving subsidy programs like Mitchell-Lama had been trying to use the provision for their entire buildings by claiming that withdrawing from the program itself constituted a unique and peculiar circumstance. 
 The new regulation says that justification can no longer be used.
 ''A lot of the residents of Mitchell-Lamas are seniors on a fixed income and disabled families who simply could not afford the increases that landlords were requesting,'' said Ellen B. Davidson, a staff attorney with the Legal Aid Society, which supported amending the regulation.
 Sue Susman, the tenant association president at Central Park Gardens at 50 West 97th Street, one of the buildings that had applied for increases, said that had the loophole not been closed, her rent of $1,000 a month for a three-bedroom unit would have gone up to $5,275.
 At another affected building, Columbus Manor at 70 West 93rd Street, Hector Cardona said rent for the two-bedroom unit he shares with his wife would have shot up to $4,500 a month from $981.
 ''It's astronomical, a jump like that,'' said Mr. Cardona, 66, a retired union organizer and president of the tenant association. ''We would have had to get out. We would have ended up upstate somewhere.''
 Even before the regulation was clarified, no landlord had successfully used the loophole to raise the rents for a whole building. At a few buildings that had applied for increases under the provision, tenants had agreed to modest rent increases in negotiations with owners. 
 Now, landlords of the 23 buildings will be sent a copy of the new regulation and must decide whether to revise or withdraw their applications, said Greg Fewer, director of policy at the Division of Housing and Community Renewal's Office of Rent Administration.
 At a public hearing in September, Mitchell Posilkin, general counsel for the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents residential building owners, criticized state officials for characterizing the provision as a loophole.
 ''Rather than being some sort of illegal scam or nefarious scheme, this supposed 'loophole' has existed as a matter of law for over 30 years, and its use in this specific context has been upheld by the state's highest court as recently as two years ago,'' Mr. Posilkin said in his testimony. 
 In 2005, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that the owner of a former Mitchell-Lama building on the Upper West Side, KSLM-Columbus Apartments, could apply for buildingwide rent adjustments under the provision. The owner later settled the rent dispute with tenants.
 Mr. Posilkin said that owners of buildings withdrawing from Mitchell-Lama had the right to increase artificially low rents to pay for increased taxes and debt burdens, maintenance and ''to ensure their continued economic vitality.''
 The owners of four Manhattan buildings, including Columbus Manor and Central Park Gardens, sued the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, seeking to have a judge order the agency to grant their ''unique and peculiar'' applications. The owners argued that they were entitled to have their initial regulated rents reset to conform with the rents in the area. The suit was denied this year.
 The new regulation takes effect as the number of buildings in the Mitchell-Lama program has dwindled rapidly in New York City in recent years, as more owners have opted out of the program to seek higher profits in the real estate market. A report released in May by the Community Service Society, a liberal research and advocacy group, found that from 1990 to 2006, some 26,000 units in Mitchell-Lama rental developments, or 40 percent, had been lost in the city.
 These days, much of the city's moderately priced housing is built under the so-called 80-20 program, in which developers of new buildings reserve 20 percent of their apartments for low- or moderate-income households in return for state- or city-issued tax-exempt bonds. 
 City officials and state legislators have also expanded the number of neighborhoods where developers are required to include apartments for low- and moderate-income tenants in order to receive tax breaks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hector Cardona, at Columbus Manor on the West Side, said his rent would have risen to $4,500 from $981 under a loophole that was closed last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); FAMILY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); LEGAL AID (60%); LAWYERS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



556 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Winter Of Our Discontent

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''Americans' Economic Pessimism Reaches Record High.'' That's the headline on a recent Gallup report, which shows a nation deeply unhappy with the state of the economy. Right now, ''27% of Americans rate current economic conditions as either 'excellent' or 'good,' while 44% say they are 'only fair' and 28% say they are poor.'' Moreover, ''an extraordinary 78% of Americans now say the economy is getting worse, while a scant 13% say it is getting better.''
 What's really remarkable about this dismal outlook is that the economy isn't (yet?) in recession, and consumers haven't yet felt the full effects of $98 oil (wait until they see this winter's heating bills) or the plunging dollar, which will raise the prices of imported goods. 
 The response of those who support the Bush administration's economic policies is to complain about the unfairness of it all. They rattle off statistics that supposedly show how wonderful the economy really is. Many of these statistics are misleading or irrelevant, but it's true that the official unemployment rate is fairly low by historical standards. So why are people so unhappy?
 The answer from Bush supporters -- who are, on this and other matters, a strikingly whiny bunch -- is to blame the ''liberal media'' for failing to report the good news. But the real explanation for the public's pessimism is that whatever good economic news there is hasn't translated into gains for most working Americans.
 One way to drive this point home is to compare the situation for workers today with that in the late 1990s, when the country's economic optimism was almost as remarkable as its pessimism today. For example, in the fall of 1998 almost two-thirds of Americans thought the economy was excellent or good.
 The unemployment rate in 1998 was only slightly lower than the unemployment rate today. But for working Americans, everything else was different. Wages were rising, yet inflation was low, so the purchasing power of workers' take-home pay was steadily improving. So, too, were job benefits, including the availability of health insurance. And homeownership was rising steadily.
 It was, in other words, a time when Americans felt they were sharing in the country's prosperity.
 Today, by contrast, wage gains for most workers are being swallowed by inflation. In fact, the reality for lower- and middle-income workers may be worse than the official statistics say, because the prices of necessities like food, transportation and medical care are rising considerably faster than the Consumer Price Index as a whole. One striking statistic: the cost of a traditional Thanksgiving turkey dinner was 11 percent higher this year than last year.
 Meanwhile, the percentage of Americans receiving health insurance from their employers, which began to decline in 2001, is continuing its downward trend. And homeownership, after rising for several years on a tide of subprime mortgages -- well, you know how that's going.
 In short, working Americans have very good reason to feel unhappy about the state of the economy. But what will it take to make their situation better?
 The leading Republican candidates for president don't even seem to realize that there's a problem. A few months ago Rudy Giuliani, denouncing Hillary Clinton's economic proposals, declared that ''she wants to go back to the 1990s'' -- as if that would be a bad thing. 
 In fact, memories of how much better the economy was under Bill Clinton will be a potent political advantage for the Democrats next year. 
 But simply putting another Clinton, or any Democrat, in the White House won't ensure that the good times will roll again. President Clinton was a good economic manager, but much of the good news during the 1990s reflected events that won't be repeated, including low oil prices and the great medical cost pause -- the temporary leveling off of health care spending as a percentage of G.D.P. that took place in the 1990s despite his failure to pass health care reform. 
 And there are good reasons to think that the negative effects of globalization on the wages of some Americans are larger than they were in the '90s. That's a hugely contentious issue within the progressive movement, with no easy resolution. I'll write more about it in the months ahead.
 Despite these caveats, Democrats have every right to make a political issue out of the failure of the Bush economy to deliver gains to working Americans -- especially because conservatives continue to insist that tax cuts for the affluent are the answer to all problems.
 But Democrats shouldn't kid themselves into believing that this will be easy. The next president won't be able to deliver another era of good times unless he or she manages to tackle the longer-term trends that underlie today's economic disappointment: a collapsing health care system and inexorably rising inequality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); THANKSGIVING (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



557 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Pull Weight In Economy, Study Finds

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Immigrants contribute nearly one-fourth of the economic output of New York State, and outside of New York City, they are overrepresented in some of the most critical occupations, including higher education and health care, according to a study to be released today. 
 In the suburbs north and east of the city, about 4 of every 10 doctors and more than one-fourth of college professors were foreign-born, the study by the private Fiscal Policy Institute found. In upstate New York, where just 5 percent of residents are foreign-born, immigrants accounted for about one-fifth of the professors and more than one-third of the doctors, according to the study.
 The study, conducted over the past year, concluded that the contributions of people born outside the country have spread far beyond the low-wage, low-skill work often associated with immigrants. Most immigrants meld into New York communities, learn to speak English and buy homes, it found. The institute is an independent research organization that focuses on public policy in New York State.
 ''We just felt like there was such a deep misunderstanding about who immigrants were that the political discourse often got far afield from any factual basis of what's really going on here,'' said David D. Kallick, a senior fellow at the institute and the principal author of the study, ''Working for a Better Life.''
 The study included foreign-born New York residents who have lived in the country for decades, as well as new arrivals, and included legal and illegal immigrants to capture the full immigrant experience, Mr. Kallick said. 
 According to the study, there were 4.1 million immigrants in New York State, three million of whom lived in New York City. It estimated that about one of every six immigrants in the state -- about 16 percent -- were here illegally. About 535,000 of those lived in the city, the study found.
 Advocates of stricter immigration policies have argued that illegal immigrants are a drain on the United States economy because they receive more in health care, education and other social services than they contribute to the economy. A recent report from the Federation for American Immigration Reform cited studies that estimated the cost of immigration -- legal and illegal -- at $15 billion to $20 billion a year and the benefit at no more than $10 billion a year.
 Mr. Kallick said that Texas and other states had disputed the federation's reports and determined that immigration had a positive economic effect.
 Statewide, immigrants made up 21 percent of all residents and contributed 22.4 percent of the gross domestic product of the state, or a total economic output of $229 billion, in 2005, the study said. They also were overrepresented in the work force, accounting for 26 percent of the state's residents who were working or looking for work, the study found. In New York City, the contribution of immigrants was even greater, according to the study. Immigrants, who make up 37 percent of the city's population, earned 37 percent of all wages and salaries in the city, the study found. Although immigrants form a large majority of the city's taxi drivers, housekeepers and home-health aides, the study found that they also made up one-fourth of the city's chief executives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (79%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); SUBURBS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



558 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine Challenges The Big Boys

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: Carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There is a room in our house where time has been stopped. There are no flat-panel TVs, no docking stations for the iPod, and no keyboards save my wife's accordion. In that room -- the quaint description is ''living room'' -- there is a large comfortable chair, a good lamp, and a magazine rack groaning with the fruits of American journalism. Almost every day, I drop a magazine there or a longer newspaper article, with the best intention of getting to it when things slow down a bit.
 The bounty is undeniable. There are nutritious morsels there -- a piece in the Columbia Journalism Review calling for a nonprofit newspaper model, a Fortune article about a high-powered chief executive who regrets his ruthlessness on the way to the top, and a New York Times Magazine article on Hugo Chavez's brand of nationalization. 
 Less topically, there is Esopus, an engrossingly eclectic publication that deconstructs crossword puzzles and a copy of the shooting script for ''A Short Film About Andy Warhol.'' And there are less weighty delights, like Blender's take on the greatest 100 indie-rock albums and Esquire's declaration that Charlize Theron is the Sexiest Woman Alive. 
 But I have not sat in that chair for a month. Like most Americans, I am overwhelmed by the velocity of everyday life and the volume of media that goes with it. 
 Last Friday, a respite finally came with the holiday weekend, and I lit a fire and made a nice cup of coffee. But before I dug into that ever-growing pile, I grabbed a laptop just to check on a few things at work. Two hours later, I came to, having tripped across some a compelling video with Holly Hunter made in support of the writer's strike, watched Howard Stern go ninja on a paparazzo, and a montage of the best saves of the week by NHL goalies. The fire had burned down, dinner was calling, and the magazines, a glorious stack of them, remained untouched.
 Perhaps it is a personal problem, one born of having the attention span of a gnat and being too jacked-in for my own good. Yes, I keep The New Yorker on my nightstand, and when it's time to cook, I page through Cook's Illustrated in search of something to make, but in general, I seem to be losing the magazine habit.
 Felix Dennis, the British raconteur who brought the world the lad magazine Maxim, has my back. His magazine The Week riffs through all the content in the known universe and digests it into a form that can be disposed of in 20 minutes. 
 Last week, the power grab by Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan was boiled to a few hundred words, name-checking (and grabbing content) from The Weekly Standard and The Economist, along with The Boston Globe and The Washington Post. That way, when I go to a dinner party tomorrow night and Benazir Bhutto's steadfast opposition to his use of mass arrests to maintain power comes up, I can sound as if I actually made my way though that stack. 
 Recession, the presidential candidacy of Rudolph Giuliani and soccer hooligans in Italy all get the same short-form, high-density treatment. Rather than inveighing against the Web's hit-and-run informational ethos, Mr. Dennis has rendered it corporeal, producing a 42-page primer on the week that was, without getting bogged down in, or even acknowledging, the details.
 A success in Britain, the American version of The Week has posted double-digit growth in the last eight reporting periods of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. It has hit a nerve, coming at a time when the familiar American newsweeklies are struggling to maintain their footprint. 
 Newsweek, for example, announced this month that it was cutting almost a fifth of its circulation, dropping its rate base from 3.1 million to 2.6 million. The Week is tiny by comparison, with a total circulation of just under that same half a million that left Newsweek, but Mr. Dennis is convinced that the format will counteract industry trends.
 ''The Week is going to be a huge global brand. Cross my heart and hope to die, I have already been offered hundreds of millions of dollars for it,'' he said this month, sitting in the sun at the Terrace Club in Midtown Manhattan. ''If Henry Luce were to come back from the dead and was offered any magazine as a reward for coming back from the dead, I think he'd say he'd take The Week, because his first idea was doing exactly what this magazine does. His original idea was offering readers of precis of what was happening around the world in a given week.''
 Mr. Dennis recently sold the American version of Maxim, a juggernaut that was showing the strains of increasing competition. Given that he was pulling back in the United States, why not just add The Week to the sale?
 ''I will throw The Week onto no pile until it becomes a half a billion or billion-dollar franchise,'' he said. ''The Week is my baby.''
 He also believes he can get a toehold in the newsweekly market because, he says, the established players Time, Newsweek and U. S. News & World Report have lost touch with the news.
 '''Golfing for Cats With Jesus Who Has Cancer' is not something that people need to know about,'' he said. The Week is all news, all the time, with editors who comb publications and republish annotated accounts from a disparate group of sources. Not only does it have the editorial reach of the Web, but it has the same significant cost benefits because most of the data and reporting are borrowed. 
 Throughout his career, Mr. Dennis has railed against the wobbly circulation economics of an industry built on maintaining a rate base for advertisers at whatever cost to the consumer.
 ''They forgot about the reader. Publishers got fat with their cigar-smoking, suspender-snapping, breast-beating, with the huge lunches and all of the lying about their circulation,'' he said. ''Excess should be a personal thing, not how you run an industry.'' 
 Mr. Dennis knows about excess. In addition to being a publisher, he is also a published poet whose does his book tours by personal jet and spends much of his time in an enclave on the exclusive southern Caribbean island of Mustique. But he is not nearly so profligate when it comes to making a newsweekly. A planned version of The Week in the East will have five editors in Australia and one-man bureaus in Hong Kong, Singapore and New Zealand. William Falk, the editor of The Week here, came along for lunch and confirmed that they put out the magazine with a total of only 15 editors. 
 ''The American magazine industry has been massively overstaffed for years and years. It is one of the most inefficient businesses in the history of the world. And you know what? The chickens are coming home to roost,'' Mr. Dennis said. ''They can sit around the campfire listening to the scary noises out in the dark, wondering where it all went, but what I would suggest is that they take some of the chickens, skin 'em, and stick 'em on the campfire and start eating.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FILM (67%); POP & ROCK (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (52%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); PAKISTAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



559 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: After Cyclone, Bangladesh Still Faces Political Storm

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The political storm that preceded nature's latest assault on this country still swirls overhead.
 Nearly a year into an army-backed state of emergency, basic freedoms remain suspended, a sweeping anticorruption drive has stuffed the jails with some of Bangladesh's most influential business leaders and politicians, and a fragile economy is tottering under the pressure of floods at home and rising oil prices abroad. 
 The soaring cost of food is potentially the most explosive challenge facing the military-backed government that has run this country since Jan. 11, when, after debilitating political protests, scheduled elections were scrapped and emergency law was imposed. Climbing inflation was compounded by an unusually harsh monsoon, which destroyed food crops along the flood plains in July. 
 Then, the Nov. 15 cyclone destroyed acres of rice paddy, ruined the shrimp farms that dot the southern coast, and, according to the World Food Program, left roughly 2.3 million people in need of urgent food aid. 
 Storm relief is now the government's most pressing test, including averting famine and disease outbreaks, and ensuring that aid distribution is perceived to be fair and without corruption. The government estimates that six million people were affected by the storm. 
 ''This is going to be the real defining challenge for them,'' Rehman Sobhan, the chairman of the Center for Policy Dialogue, an independent research group based in Dhaka, said of the administration. ''A huge effort is going to be required.''
 Bangladesh is among the world's poorest nations, with a Muslim-majority population of more than 140 million and nearly half of its youngest children suffering from malnutrition. Polls indicate that even before the cyclone, confidence in the caretaker government was declining.
 The way the ordinary Bangladeshi is being pinched every day was on stark display the other day in a working-class quarter of Dhaka called Begunbari, a crowded warren of tenements amid the roar of factories that supply cheap clothes for sale abroad, including in the United States.
 Abdul Aziz, 63, a security guard who was buying vegetables at the local market, quietly confessed that even with three grown daughters working in the garment industry, his family was finding it harder to put enough food on the table. On this afternoon, he bought half as many winter beans as he had hoped to and one small head of cauliflower instead of two. Those purchases, along with the staple rice and lentils, would have to feed his family of seven. ''We will make do,'' he said. ''Everyone will have a little bit.''
 A tailor who serves the neighborhood said his business had plummeted from about 50 orders a day to barely a couple. Few can afford new clothes when the basics -- onions, oil, cauliflower -- have become so much costlier.
 Firoza Begum, the wife of a civil servant, said the government had failed to curb food prices, even as she gave it credit for cracking down on graft.
 ''They have caught some corrupt people -- we can see that,'' she said. ''But we also want them to reduce prices of our daily needs, so we can somehow manage our households.''
 She said that she had all but given up buying milk and meat for her family because they were too expensive.
 In her neighborhood, Election Commission workers were going door to door this afternoon taking names and addresses so they could compile a fresh list of those eligible to vote. Fakhruddin Ahmed, the civilian leader of the country's military-backed caretaker administration, has promised national elections by the end of 2008.
 But exactly how soon elections will take place and under what circumstances, remain mysteries, considering that several major politicians are in jail or in exile. The leaders of the two top political parties, Khaleda Zia of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, and Sheik Hasina Wazed of the Awami League, are in custody on various graft and extortion charges. Whether they will be allowed to take part in the election is anyone's guess.
 Under emergency rule, the press is prohibited from publishing anything deemed ''provocative'' and political activity is banned, including demonstrations. Holding a political meeting outdoors is punishable by up to five years in prison. 
 The restrictions were loosened slightly in September when indoor political meetings were allowed to resume, but only with permission from the police and with no more than 50 people in attendance.
 According to a monthly public perception survey by a consortium of civil society organizations called the Election Working Group, the share of Bangladeshis who expressed high confidence in the caretaker government fell between March and September, while the share of those who had low confidence sharply increased. This was true of respondents from ''ordinary'' and ''elite'' socioeconomic groups.
 In the latest survey, conducted in face-to-face interviews in late September, the rising price of essential commodities was identified as the biggest concern, and even as the government got good marks for cracking down on corruption, respondents were divided about whether the government had any bearing on their daily lives: 42 percent of them said they were ''better off'' but about the same percentage said they were ''worse off or that there has been no change in their personal situation.''
 The government's anticorruption crusade continues to be seen as a turning point for Bangladesh, which has consistently ranked at the bottom of the annual Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index. 
 Bank accounts have been frozen. Luxury cars have been impounded by the state, or hidden indoors by their owners for fear they will be taken. Nearly 100 prominent politicians and business people have been taken in for questioning, and an unknown number of people have been detained without charge, which is legal under the new emergency laws. A little more than a dozen have been convicted by anticorruption courts, and how quickly, or fairly, the other cases will be tried is unclear.
 If entrenched corruption was seen as damaging the economy, the crackdown has also sent shocks through the private sector. The government appears to be retreating from its initial wide sweep and has in recent months, released some detainees.
 ''Informally, the government wants some sort of reassurance for the business community that they will be allowed to function,'' said Akbar Ali Khan, a retired senior government official. He declined to grade the government's overall performance (criticizing the government is now a punishable offense) except to say that it was vital for the government to prepare for elections and restore business leaders' confidence in the country.
 ''The economic problems are very serious and acute,'' he said. ''These will have to be addressed with more vigor.''
 Abdul Awal Mintoo, the chairman and chief executive of Multimode Group, was among the most prominent millionaires taken into custody in May on a vague charge of destabilizing the government, then released six months later. Mr. Mintoo said that while he was in custody he was interrogated less about his own assets than about what evidence he could furnish against Ms. Hasina, the Awami League leader and a former prime minister with whom Mr. Mintoo was friendly.
 A naturalized United States citizen, Mr. Mintoo returned to his native Bangladesh 27 years ago and established a number of businesses, from dealing in agricultural seeds to real estate. He estimates his assets in Bangladesh to be $30 million.
 Mr. Mintoo, 58, insists that he did not bribe anyone in government in exchange for contracts. But he concedes that he did what he says everyone else has long had to do in this country: grease the wheels of politics and government to get basic things done, including installing a telephone line and getting imported machine parts out of customs. If that were the grounds for his arrest, he said, then ''50 million people, every adult male'' should be arrested.
 ''It's aimless what they're doing,'' he said of the government in an interview, and added that he planned to divest himself of his investments in the country slowly. ''I'm not sure how this will end up. I don't want to take a risk and live in uncertainty.''
 ''If you take blood out of the arteries,'' he added, ''it just paralyzes.''
 The only charge remaining pending against Mr. Mintoo accuses him of extorting about $700 from a private citizen. Mr. Mintoo laughed at the charge, saying it was too paltry a sum for him to demand of anyone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An election worker canvassed a slum in Dhaka last week, collecting names and addresses for a new list of those eligible to vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: In Dhaka, rising prices defy residents to make ends meet. Map of Dhaka in Bangladesh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMINE (78%); MALNUTRITION (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); RICE FARMING (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FLOOD ZONES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); APPAREL MFG (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (55%); AQUACULTURE (54%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (94%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



560 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Today in Business

 BODY:
GAUGING HOLIDAY SALES According to two reports, retail sales surged on the day after Thanksgiving but the amount spent by each shopper fell, with stores dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy. 
 ON THE PICKET LINE Many members of the Writers Guild of America say that striking in Hollywood -- at least short term -- is not that bad. And a nationwide poll suggests that the union is winning the public relations war. [C1.]
 The Web site Deadline Hollywood Daily, owned and operated by Nikki Finke, has been a critical source for Hollywood news and gossip. But the three-week-old writers' strike may have finally solidified Ms. Finke's position as a power broker. [C4.]
 CABLE REGULATION The head of the Federal Communications Commission is struggling to find support from a majority of commissioners for a proposal to more tightly regulate cable television companies. [C1.]
 BATTLE OF THE BAND GAMES One of the most watched rivalries in the video game business this holiday season is between two games that are not first-person shooters or movie tie-ins, but instead put players in the role of rock musicians. [C1.]
 DNA TEST IN DRUGSTORES In what appears to be the first offer of a DNA test through a major pharmacy chain, a company called Sorenson Genomics has started selling a paternity test kit through Rite Aid stores. [C3.]
 ANIMAL TESTING PROTESTS An international movement to close down Huntingdon Life Sciences, a large animal testing laboratory, has been sustained by its presence on the Internet. [C3.]
 POLITICAL ALLIANCE ABC News and Facebook have established a partnership that allows Facebook members to follow ABC political reporters electronically, view reports and video, and participate in polls and debates. [C7.]
 MAGAZINE INSERT ATTACKED An insert in Rolling Stone magazine sponsored by Camel cigarettes is under fire from antismoking activists who say it blurs the line between advertising and editorial content. [C4.]
 MEN AND MELODRAMA Research suggests that producers of emotional films can increase their male audience by emphasizing a disconnection with reality. [C4.]
 20 QUESTIONS What does MySpace have to do with cheese slices? Stuart Elliott poses 20 questions about advertising, marketing, media and popular culture. Advertising. [C5.]
 CORPORATE EFFORT ON CARBON British companies are pledging to offer greener products and invest in research and technology as part of a wider push to reduce carbon emissions. [C5.]
 THE MONDAY AFTER Two years ago, Cyber Monday -- the first Monday after Thanksgiving -- was a marketing gimmick in search of shoppers. This year, retailers seem to have embraced it. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DNA (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); DNA TESTING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MEN (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STRIKES (77%); FILM (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); TOYS & GAMES (72%); GENOMICS (71%); PHARMACIES (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (69%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PRINT ADVERTISING (68%); POP & ROCK (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC (67%); TEST LABORATORIES (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); LEGAL PATERNITY (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); EMISSIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



561 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise, but Stores Relied on Discounts and Early Hours

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston.

 BODY:
Black Friday was bigbut with a big caveat.
 With stores dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy, retail sales surged on the day after Thanksgiving, yet the amount of money each shopper spent fell, according to two reports released yesterday.
 The reports suggest that jittery consumers are flocking to rock-bottom prices and to little else -- a boon for discount stores like Wal-Mart and Best Buy and trouble for higher-end chains, like Nordstrom and Abercrombie & Fitch, which are averse to discounting. 
 Sales rose 8.3 percent on Friday compared with last year, the biggest increase in three years, according to ShopperTrak, a research company. On Friday and Saturday combined, sales rose 7.2 percent.
 But shoppers did not splurge, spending an estimated $348 each over the holiday weekend, down from $360 last year, a survey conducted for the National Retail Federation found.
 ''American consumers are trying to outsmart the stores and wait for desperation discounts,'' said Burt Flickinger, a retail consultant. 
 Retailers' performance over the Thanksgiving weekend is closely watched because it accounts for up to 8 percent, or roughly $40 billion, of all holiday sales, which are expected to reach $475 billion this year, according to the National Retail Federation, the industry trade group.
 Over all, retail sales growth this season is predicted to be the weakest since 2002, with spending pinched by rising energy costs, falling home prices and a tight credit market. 
 As expected, cost-conscious consumers favored discount chains over costlier stores this weekend, according to the survey, conducted by BIGresearch. 
 Of those surveyed, 55 percent said they had shopped at bargain chains like Wal-Mart and Target, up from 50 percent last year. The percentage who made a purchase at traditional department stores, like Macy's, fell slightly.
 That shift appeared to confirm suspicions that shoppers would ''trade down'' this season, largely bypassing full-price stores to save money. That is a reversal from previous years when shoppers eagerly traded up to luxury outlets like Ralph Lauren.
 Deanna Babikian, 42, had no plans to trade up on Friday, arriving at Target in Framingham, Mass., by 6:30 a.m. to buy a 42-inch television for $798. ''You have to go then. You can't get these kinds of deals any other time,'' she said. 
 Higher gas prices, and a reluctance to drive to stores, may be behind the big rise in the percentage of people who shopped online, 32 percent, up from 23 percent in 2006, the survey found.
 Bill Martin, the co-founder of ShopperTrak, said the stronger-than-expected sales on Friday should leave stores ''breathing a sigh of relief.'' 
 But why did individual spending fall, if sales rose? One explanation is that the most heavily promoted -- and discounted -- products this holiday season cost less than those of last year. 
 In electronics, for example, two best sellers on Friday were Kodak digital photo frames (for about $100 to $250) and a KitchenAid mixer (for $130), rather than flat-screen televisions, last year's must-have gift.
 ''It takes a lot of $130 stand mixers to add up to a $1,000 high definition TV,'' said Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation.
 The retail federation's survey found that earlier store hours lured more shoppers. About 2.6 percent of those surveyed shopped at stores with midnight openings on Black Friday, up from 1.3 percent a year ago.
 The discounting in brick-and-mortar stores will spill over onto the Web starting today. 
 In a departure from tradition, dozens of Web retailers will offer free shipping, no matter how small the order, for Cyber Monday, as the Monday after Black Friday is now called (at least by nickname-adoring marketing executives.)
 An estimated 25 percent of online retailers will offer the promotion, like Joann.com, the Web site of Jo-Ann Fabrics and Crafts; HSN.com, the home shopping network Web site; and Giftcertificates.com, a site that sells gift cards from hundreds of stores.
 Most retailers provide free shipping only for orders of $50 or higher. But merchants have observed that, although consumers historically flocked to retail Web sites today after spending the weekend browsing at stores, they were still reluctant to buy.
 ''It's people coming into browse,'' said William Lynch, general manager of HSN.com, who added that the purchases on Cyber Monday in 2006 ''were not as high as we wanted.''
 With free shipping, he said, ''we want to convert browsers into buyers.''
 ComScore, a research company, predicted that online sales might surpass $700 million today, a record for a single day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A J. C. Penney store in Ohio opened at 4 a.m. on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C1)
 Ceilene Gonzalez, 6, at a Toys ''R'' Us in Manhattan on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (91%); THANKSGIVING (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (83%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



562 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plummet; Bond Yields Sag

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The stock market fell sharply late today and investors rushed to the safety of Treasuries as concerns about mortgage-related losses continued to unsettle the financial market.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.3 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 237.44 points, or 1.8 percent, to 12,743.44. Both indexes are now down more than 10 percent from their record close on Oct. 9, the generally accepted definition of a market correction. 
 The Nasdaq composite index was off 2.1 percent, putting it more than 11 percent below its peak on Oct. 31.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to its lowest level in more than three years, to 3.841 percent, from 4.001 percent Friday evening. It was the biggest one-day drop in the yield in more than three years, suggesting a significant weakening in investor confidence from already low levels.
 The market did not appear to be reacting to any one development. Rather, market specialists say investors were exhibiting a growing awareness that they do know how bad the problems could get in the financial system and the broader economy.
 ''The uncertainty is in the hidden land mines, if you will,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, referring to the steady stream of negative developments at banks and other financial institutions. 
 Earlier in the day, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York tried to ease anxiety by saying that it would extend longer-term financing in the money market than it does usually. The bank, along with the European Central Bank, has been trying to help ease the flow of capital because banks have become increasingly reluctant to lend money to one another.
 But the New York Fed's statement appeared to do little to ease investors' concerns. They appeared to be more focused on news that Citigroup, the world's largest bank, is considering further layoffs, and that HSBC, another large bank, will help rescue two investment vehicles by taking on $45 billion in assets onto its own balance sheet.
 ''What they have done so far isn't really fixing the problem; it isn't easing credit,'' Douglas Peta, chief market strategist at J&W Seligman, an investment firm in New York, said of the Fed.
 The Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark interest rate twice, by 0.75 percentage points, but that has not helped to lower the cost of borrowing for most banks and financial institutions. Policy makers will meet again on Dec. 11, but they have signaled in several public appearances recently that they do not see a need to cut interest rates further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) EUROPE (69%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



563 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Best Hope

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
The Palestinians are the cause of exiting and ex-presidents. There's no electoral payback in supporting them. Jews and Israel-loving evangelicals dwarf any Arab lobby to the extent it's not even funny.
 President Bush is on the exit track. It's time to rectify the fundamental error he made in allowing war-on-terror rhetoric to discredit the Palestinian national movement.
 His best hope in Annapolis may be the Texas connection. If Bush gets behind Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian prime minister who attended the University of Texas, things may move. But he has to stick with him. 
 Fayyad, 55, is the can-do face of the Palestinian movement. Like his people, he's long been in the wilderness. Unlike many of them, he hasn't succumbed to the culture of the victim. ''One year,'' he said in an hour-long conversation, ''is more than adequate to come to a peace treaty and end this conflict.''
 In seven years in office, Bush has been uninterested in such an ending. He hallucinated about roads from Baghdad to Jerusalem. He talked about two states and lost interest. American Middle East policy has been distracted and unbalanced.
 Now, overcoming his Clinton angst, Bush has summoned the parties to Annapolis, Md. It's late in the day. The rising Middle Eastern power, Iran, has not been invited. Nor has Hamas. What's present in abundance is desperation. Bush must use it.
 The Palestinians are desperate because they are at a dead end. They've been the losers over six decades through ineptitude, corruption, Arab hypocrisy and their susceptibility to victims' hollow consolations. As Fayyad noted, ''Last year more than 50,000 Palestinians emigrated. How is that consistent with ending the occupation?''
 Israeli desperation is quieter. The economy has blossomed, but not the Israeli soul. Four decades of occupation since the 1967 war have been a scourge. Jewish precariousness persists. The diaspora Jew did not go to Zion to build the Jew among nations.
 Bush faces Palestinian weakness and compromised Israeli strength. He must offset weakness by standing with the Palestinians on core demands. He must insist on Israeli sacrifice -- territorial and ideological -- in the name of U.S.-guaranteed security. ''Without peace,'' Bush should tell the Israelis, ''the Arab birth rate and the jihadist tide will eventually wash over you.''
 Fayyad told me he's coming into the conference Tuesday ''disappointed that more progress has not been made.'' On core issues -- Jerusalem, borders, settlements -- impasse has prevailed. Annapolis can solve nothing; it can only jump-start an intense process.
 That process needs three elements, Fayyad told me. First, explicit framing within the context of U.N. Security Council resolutions, including 242, that makes clear Israel's obligation to, in Fayyad's words, ''end the occupation that began in 1967.''
 Second, Annapolis must produce an Israeli commitment to freeze West Bank settlements and remove illegal settler outposts, paralleled by Palestinian commitments to ''institution-building and fighting terrorism.''
 Third, ''we must get a reference to a timeline, a conclusion of final status peace within the Bush presidency.''
 Fayyad is right. A return to the 1967 lines, plus or minus agreed swaps, is the only basis for a two-state accord. An Israeli settlement freeze is the first step to a Palestinian buy-in. A timetable is the anchor all the talking needs.
 I asked Fayyad how he'd reassure Israel about security. He became animated. ''Political pluralism is fine, but I can't tolerate security pluralism. There's no such thing as militias running around taking decisions! That has led to catastrophe. Law and order is basic. I said in a speech the other day that Nablus is more important than Annapolis! It is. The people of Nablus need security, just like Israelis.''
 And Hamas? ''The Palestinian state will be in the West Bank and Gaza, so the current situation is a big problem for implementation. But we're not there yet. We are talking about a binding agreement with the state of Israel. Our domestic situation will be sorted out by then.''
 Fayyad continued: ''I want to end the occupation yesterday! I feel no less strongly than these Hamas people talking about resistance. But we have to mean what we say. In 1993, we renounced violence and recognized Israel. We must stick with that.''
 Bush must tell Israel it's strong enough to bet on Fayyad's vision of coexistence. He must cash in arms-supply chips with the Iran-fearing Saudis to get their support. Make Arab moderation mean something.
 Israel is powerful, but Palestinian humiliation is an Israeli and Jewish nightmare. I feel it; many American Jews feel it. This is not what David Ben-Gurion had in mind when he sought to forge a proud people from one ''hung up in midair.''
 Bush delivering Palestine is a far-fetched notion. Still, it's time for the Texas connection to get the ball moving down the field. 
 Blog: www.iht.com/passages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HAMAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIGION (78%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



564 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Syria Says It Will Join Conference In Maryland

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Syria announced Sunday that it would attend the Middle East peace meeting beginning here Monday night, joining Saudi Arabia and the rest of the Arab League participants in a turnabout that represented a victory for the Bush administration.
 Syria, a supporter of groups opposed to a Palestinian peace with Israel, said it would send a deputy foreign minister to the meeting, which will continue on Tuesday in Annapolis, Md. In return, Syria was promised that Israel's occupation of the Golan Heights, taken from Syria in the 1967 war, would be on the agenda.
 The Annapolis meeting, a major initiative pressed by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, will begin negotiations on a peace treaty to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict while simultaneously committing Israel and the Palestinians to carry out long-postponed obligations contained in the first stage of the 2003 peace plan known as the road map. 
 The presence of major Arab countries, now including Syria, is meant to provide Arab sanction and support for the Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to make the concessions required for peace. The Arabs promise Israel that a comprehensive peace will mean their recognition of the Jewish state. But a comprehensive peace must also include a resolution on the Golan Heights.
 Most important, however, Syria risked isolation from the Arab world if it did not come. Syria is already a kind of outlier, run by a Shiite minority and an ally of non-Arab, Shiite Iran. Syria supports Iranian-supported clients like Hezbollah, in southern Lebanon, as well as Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Palestinian territories -- all opposed to a Palestinian-Israeli peace agreement or Israel's right to exist.
 In Gaza on Sunday, the Hamas spokesman, Mushir al-Masri, said: ''Any results from Annapolis will not be recognized by the Palestinian people. No one is delegated to give up on our basic rights. We are ready to offer blood to defend them.''
 Syria's announcement about participation came in a brief dispatch carried by the official Syrian Arab news agency, which stated that it had accepted an invitation from the United States ''after adding the Syrian track on the conference agenda.'' Its delegation will be led by Faisal Mekdad, a deputy foreign minister. 
 Miri Eisin, spokeswoman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, said, ''The Saudi and Syrian presence is very important and is an American success.'' While the Syrians are not sending the foreign minister -- a diplomatic distinction that has meaning -- Ms. Eisin said that from Israel's point of view, the rank of the representative was much less important than the Syrian presence.
 ''Hamas is appalled, which is why we have reason to be satisfied,'' Ms. Eisin said.
 About the results of the meeting, Ms. Eisin said, ''We're hopeful but not optimistic.''
 Mark Regev, the Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, noted that Syria had agreed to cancel a planned ''anti-Annapolis summit'' meeting and attend instead. ''If the idea of the meeting is Arab-Israeli dialogue, Syria matters,'' he said. ''It would be even more positive if this were an indication of a change in Syria's orientation'' -- away from Iran and toward the Saudi- and Egyptian-led Sunni Arab consensus. 
 The meeting opens on Monday evening, after President Bush has separate meetings with Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas, with a lavish dinner at the State Department. On Tuesday, at Annapolis, the three leaders will meet privately, then deliver speeches. Then, after lunch, there will be three consecutive sessions: on bilateral Israeli-Palestinian peace; on efforts by the former British prime minister Tony Blair to help the Palestinians create the economy and institutions of a state; and on regional issues, including the Golan Heights and Lebanon.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bush will meet again, though separately, with Mr. Abbas and Mr. Olmert, with other issues on the Israeli agenda, like the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran.
 On Sunday, Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni of Israel had lunch with Ms. Rice and met with her and the Palestinian negotiator, Ahmed Qurei, to try to work out a joint Israeli-Palestinian statement before the Annapolis meeting. The statement, which Ms. Rice says was not an American idea, has proved problematic. If there is one, it will be limited to a vow about the future and next steps, rather than a summary of the shape of a final agreement.
 Israelis praised the Arab presence here. ''There isn't a single Palestinian who can reach an agreement without Arab support,'' Ms. Livni said. 
 A peace will involve concessions for both sides, but also a deal on the future of Palestinian refugees and the final status of Jerusalem, an issue that Muslims and Jews consider to be a supra-national issue.
 In Israel, reaction to Syria's participation was political. Gilad Erdan of the opposition party Likud told Israel Radio that Syria's participation ''proved that all we are talking about is a masked ball in which even a terror-supporting state like Syria can participate.'' About the meeting, he said, ''in the end it will all come at Israel's expense.''
 Ran Cohen, from the leftist Meretz Party, said: ''I think Israel has to receive this as a great opportunity, that Syria comes for diplomatic negotiations, and also to open a direct Israel-Syria-Lebanon channel for peace, to prevent the next war, advance us perhaps, toward peace, and also to isolate Iran.''
 Three Palestinian militants were killed by Israeli forces in the West Bank and Gaza Strip on Sunday, and Israeli security forces went on heightened alert in and around Jerusalem for several hours after receiving intelligence about possible attacks before the Annapolis meeting. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian woman waited in a vehicle at a checkpoint on the road to Jerusalem yesterday as Israeli soldiers passed by, on high alert in the days leading to the Middle East peace meeting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); RELIGION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (59%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); MARYLAND USA (90%) SYRIA (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



565 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: William O'Neill 

HEADLINE: William O'Neill, 77, a Connecticut Governor

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. MADDEN. 
This obituary is reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
William A. O'Neill, the son of a small-town tavern owner who rose through Connecticut politics to serve as governor for a decade, died Saturday. He was 77.
 M. Jodi Rell, the current governor, announced Mr. O'Neill's death at the request of his wife, Natalie O'Neill, a spokesman for Mrs. Rell said. Mr. O'Neill died at his home in East Hampton; he suffered from emphysema.
 Mr. O'Neill became governor, he once said, through a combination of ''happenstance, luck and tragedy.'' 
 He had been lieutenant governor, a largely ceremonial post, for two years when the highly popular governor Ella T. Grasso resigned because of failing health on Dec. 31, 1980. She died of cancer five weeks later.
 ''I am in a position I never in my wildest imagination thought I would attain,'' Mr. O'Neill, a Democrat, said a few months later.
 In serving out the remaining two years of Mrs. Grasso's term, Mr. O'Neill said he felt like a caretaker trying to carry on her legacy.
 But his election as governor in his own right in 1982 appeared to mark a change in Mr. O'Neill's approach. He said he felt more comfortable in the office and took a more forceful role in negotiating legislation with the General Assembly.
 In his first three years in office, Connecticut ran persistent budget deficits.
 Starting in 1984, however, the state's economy began to prosper, allowing Mr. O'Neill's administration to embark on new programs, such as a 10-year, $5.5 billion plan to rebuild the state's roads and bridges. Mr. O'Neill called it the most comprehensive rebuilding program in the nation.
 Although the Republicans won control of both houses of the General Assembly in 1984, Mr. O'Neill was still able to claim much of the political credit for popular legislation the next year, like tax cuts and increased state aid for education. 
 Business and jobs, Mr. O'Neill maintained, ''make the whole thing go.'' Addressing the opening session of the General Assembly in 1986, when Mr. O'Neill and the legislature were up for re-election, he boasted that Connecticut had ''created the best business climate of all the 50 states.''
 Mr. O'Neill was the state's last Democratic governor. He was succeeded by Lowell P. Weicker, an independent, in 1991, followed by two Republicans, John G. Rowland and Mrs. Rell. 
 William Atchison O'Neill's roots were in the small town of East Hampton, 22 miles southeast of Hartford. Born on Aug. 11, 1930, he attended the town's public schools, and in 1948 entered New Britain Teachers College, now Central Connecticut State University.
 He left after a year, deciding that he did not want to be a teacher. He worked for Pratt & Whitney, the aircraft engine maker; studied drafting; sold life insurance for Prudential; and was a tail gunner in the Air Force during the Korean War.
 Intermittently, he worked at O'Neill's Taproom, a neighborhood tavern in East Hampton that was founded by his father and later owned by the governor. The tavern's back room was sometimes used by local Democrats for meetings, and Mr. O'Neill joined the party's town committee in 1954.
 During an August 2000 interview that is part of an oral history project at Central Connecticut State University, Mr. O'Neill said the tavern had provided him with a unique perspective about people.
 ''You had all walks of life -- you had ditch diggers and you had doctors, you had them all right across the spectrum,'' he said. ''Meeting all walks of life, it broadened your horizons, let's say that.''
 Mr. O'Neill's was doggedly persistent during his rise in politics. He twice ran unsuccessfully for the State House of Representatives, but was elected on his third attempt, by 67 votes, in 1966. He was re-elected five times and rose through the ranks to become the House majority leader in 1975.
 Mr. O'Neill was the chairman of Mrs. Grasso's campaign the first time she ran for governor, in 1974. When the party's longtime state chairman, John M. Bailey, died in 1975, Mr. O'Neill succeeded him.
 In 1978, Mrs. Grasso left the choice of her running mate to the party's state convention. Mr. O'Neill, capitalizing on his party and legislative posts, outmaneuvered a field of Democrats to win the nomination, and eventually the election, as lieutenant governor.
 In an age of politicians who design their campaigns and actions to look good on television, Mr. O'Neill initially seemed to be ill at ease in his public appearances, although his speaking style -- animated and easy in small political groups, but much stiffer in larger and more formal settings -- eventually improved. 
 In an interview with the Connecticut Radio Network in March 1986, Mr. O'Neill said: ''I've never professed to be an intellectual. I don't try to be.''
 He said that while he did not have the formal education of some of his political opponents, ''I've had the school of hard knocks, and I've worked my way up to be the governor of this great state of Connecticut. I'll take a back seat to no one under those circumstances.''
 After he left office, Mr. O'Neill returned to East Hampton, near Lake Pocotopaug, with his wife.
 In January, he attended Mrs. Rell's inauguration as governor, although he required oxygen from a portable tank to aid his breathing. 
 He is survived by his wife, the former Natalie Scott Damon, known as Nikki, who taught school for many years in East Hampton. The couple had no children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Governor O'Neill in 1987. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY BACEWICZ/THE HARTFORD COURANT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GOVERNORS (92%); DEATHS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

M JODI RELL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



566 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Tensions Rise For Colombia And Venezuela

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Venezuela and Colombia moved toward a diplomatic crisis on Sunday after an exchange of insults between President Hugo Chavez and his Colombian counterpart, Alvaro Uribe. 
 The spat threatens thriving trade between the countries, which are governed by ideological opposites who had cultivated a surprisingly warm political relationship. Mr. Chavez said he was putting ties with Colombia in the ''freezer,'' after Mr. Uribe's withdrawal of support last week for his mediating role with Colombian guerrillas.
 The Venezuelan president, speaking on television, described Mr. Uribe's attitude as the equivalent of a ''brutal spitting in the face,'' and called him a ''liar.'' Mr. Uribe, the Bush administration's top ally in South America, responded by accusing Mr. Chavez of legitimizing terrorists and advancing ambitions of ''assembling an empire.''
 Tensions between the countries have been rising as Venezuela prepares for a Dec. 2 referendum on a proposal by Mr. Chavez for a sweeping revision to the Constitution that would abolish presidential term limits.
 Supporters of Mr. Uribe have similarly proposed legal changes that would allow him to run for a third term. Both leaders have presided over robustly growing economies in recent years, with Colombian companies in particular benefiting from rising exports of food and manufactured goods to Venezuela.
 But both could also use some distraction from domestic travails. Opinion polls released here this weekend show Mr. Chavez's reform proposal trailing among likely voters. And Mr. Uribe has recently faced criticism over revelations of ties of some of his political supporters to drug-trafficking paramilitary death squads.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); REFERENDUMS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (51%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (91%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



567 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-11
 Musharraf Rival Returns, Hoping to Regain Power
 Nawaz Sharif, a former Pakistan prime minister, arrived home from exile to a tumultuous welcome, providing a new rallying point for the country's disillusioned opposition and setting the stage for an overnight shift of the political scene.A1 
 Syria Joins Mideast Talks
 Syria announced that it would attend this week's Middle East peace meeting in Annapolis, Md., joining the rest of the Arab League participants in a turnabout that represented a victory for the Bush administration.A11 
 The Annapolis conference is the culmination of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's efforts to push the Bush administration toward mediating between the Israelis and the Palestinians. A1
 Arctic's Treacherous Waters
 Months before the sinking of the Explorer, the first ship built specifically to ferry tourists to Antarctica, the United States and Britain warned that tourism to the polar region could be a disaster in the making.A3
 Baghdad Blast Kills 9
 A car bomb killed nine people near Baghdad's medical district. It was the second major bombing in the city in three days.A9 
 Bangladesh's Other Storm
 The cyclone that ravaged the country this month sees its counterpart in a political storm. A state of emergency exists, curtailing freedoms, a fight against corruption rages, and the economy is tottering under pressure from rising oil prices and flood relief efforts. A6
 Police Subdue Putin Protests
 Riot police officers aggressively broke up a rally against President Vladimir V. Putin in St. Petersburg, detaining numerous marchers, including two prominent politicians.A6
 Tear Gas at Kurdish Protest
 The police in southern Turkey used water cannon, tear gas and batons against Kurds who were protesting efforts to shut down a Kurdish political party.A11 
 Cafe Monitors Eating Habits
 A Dutch university restaurant wired with sensors and recording devices is devoted to discerning what makes people eat and drink the way they do.A4
 Chavez's Row with Colombia
 Venezuela and Colombia moved further toward a diplomatic crisis after an exchange of insults between President Hugo Chavez and his Colombian counterpart, President Alvaro Uribe, left.A6
 NATIONALA14-20 
 Aides Forge Networks
 As Iowa Caucuses Near
 The outcome of the Iowa caucuses hinges on creating a strong and loyal person-to-person network of influential residents, and hundreds of Democratic and Republican campaign aides, stationed in Iowa, are responsible for building and sustaining these contacts throughout the state's 99 counties. A1 
 Green Initiative in Chicago
 Chicago has decided to retrofit its 2,000 miles of alleys with environmentally sustainable road-building materials under a new Green Alley initiative, something experts say is among the most ambitious public street makeover plans in the country. A14 
 Changes for a Denver Avenue
 In Denver, the famous and notorious drag of Colfax Avenue, is showing signs of change as ambitious new zoning laws and an increased police presence are drawing businesses and driving down crime. And some residents worry that the resurgence will sanitize the thoroughfare's legendary grit. A15 
 Society of Charity Alumni
 The LAFF society , which stands for Life After the Ford Foundation, is an alumni association for former foundation employees. It is perhaps the first such organization in the philanthropic community and has inspired former employees of other charities to form their own groups and share their past experiences. A16 
 Giuliani Spars With Rivals
 As the presidential campaigns ratcheted up for the post-Thanksgiving countdown to the first nominating contests, Rudolph W. Giuliani found himself under fierce attacks from his rivals, Mitt Romney and Fred D. Thompson. A20 
 Mr. Thompson recommended that people have the option to pay a simplified tax on their income. The plan was advocated by, among others, the Republican Study Committee, a conservative caucus. A20 Gaining Ground on Fires
 The fire that burned nearly 5,000 acres and destroyed about 50 homes in Malibu over the weekend was mostly contained yesterday, officials said. A18 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 U.S. to Lift Gene Study Ban
 Federal regulators have given permission for Targeted Genetics to resume a gene therapy study in which a woman died, effectively an acknowledgment that the gene therapy did not cause the woman's death. A16 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA22-24
 What Workers Endure To Make Manhole Covers
 A photographer's recent visit to a foundry in India, where New York's manhole covers are made, revealed a scene like something from the Middle Ages: sandal-clad workers toiling amid flame, smoke and liquid iron, with scant safety precautions.A1 
 Yes, Gum Tasting Is a Job
 Tasters at Cadbury's Gum Center of Excellence in Whippany, N.J., play a crucial role in the process of creating new flavors. But they are also the envy of their friends: Four mornings a week they sit and chew gum, then report how it tastes. Then they get paid.A22 
 More Women in Hard Hats
 Since 2005, more women have gone into the building trades in New York City than at any other period in history. Though construction sites are male-dominated, the appearance of more women is a result of a campaign by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and some unions. A22 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8
 Black Friday Reports
 With stores dangling steep discounts and consumers worried about the economy, retail sales surged on the day after Thanksgiving, but the amount of money each shopper spent fell, according to two reports. C1 
 Video Games Face Off
 This year, one of the most watched rivalries in the video game business is between two games that put players in the role of rock musicians. C1 
 F.C.C.'s Cable Powers
 With the Federal Communications Commission set to vote on a report that would give them expanded powers over the cable industry, the industry's efforts to kill the proposal may be paying off. C1 
 Life on the Picket Line
 As striking writers and studio executives continue to negotiate, pickets are finding that striking in Hollywood is not that bad. Many say they are enjoying networking, taping YouTube videos,organizing theme days and dreaming up placard slogans. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 ARTSE1-10
 Schlesinger Papers at Library
 The New York Public Library aquired excerpts from the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s journals, including additional pages, datebooks, sound recordings and correspondence between Mr. Schlesinger and figures including Dean Acheson, Truman Capote, Lauren Bacall and Bill Clinton.B1
 OBITUARIESA21
 John H. Noble
 An American who never knew why the Soviets imprisoned him in their notorious gulag, but not only lived to write books on the experience but also recovered his family's company and castle in the former East Germany, he was 84.A21
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: You're eating that?; faux fiscal discipline; test and switch; Verlyn Klinkenborg on true November.
 Columns: Roger Cohen, Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); RESTAURANTS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); RIOTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (71%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); ALVARO URIBE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (93%); MARYLAND USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); ARCTIC (76%); ANTARCTICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



568 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Faux Fiscal Discipline

 BODY:
In the 2000 campaign, Gov. George W. Bush rebutted charges that he was a big spender, noting that on his watch, Texas state spending had been modest ''when adjusted for inflation and population.'' That answer is utterly reasonable. Spending that is more or less constant in terms of the cost of living and the number of beneficiaries is hardly runaway. 
 Yet President Bush recently vetoed Congress's main social spending bill, for the Departments of Labor, Education, and Health and Human Services. He said it -- along with Congress's other planned spending bills -- would recklessly overshoot his spending target by a total of $205 billion over five years. By Mr. Bush's own earlier reasoning, that figure is bogus. Adjusted for inflation and population, Congress's proposed increases amount to zero. 
 Mr. Bush's sudden passion for fiscal discipline is hypocritical in other ways. The bill he vetoed would pay for programs like college financial aid, Head Start, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cancer research, rural health programs, mine safety and job training. Mr. Bush wanted to cut $7 billion in 2008, while Congress wanted a $5 billion increase. But even as he was vetoing the bill, his aides were proposing to add another $51 billion to the deficit to shield the nation's wealthiest money managers from having to pay their fair share of taxes. The House had passed a bill to raise taxes on hedge fund managers and buyout partners, and to use the revenue to offset tax relief for less affluent taxpayers. The White House rejects the tax increase, but is happy to borrow the $51 billion, thus sparing today's titans from taxes while passing on the cost to future taxpayers. 
 It is clear that Mr. Bush's threat to veto Congress's proposed spending bills has nothing to do with fiscal discipline. It's all about appealing to his base and distracting attention from his failings, like Iraq. Mr. Bush will no doubt persist in that mode as long as his Republican allies allow him to. 
 There are signs, however, that Congressional Republicans are becoming uneasy. The House upheld Mr. Bush's veto of the social spending bill, but narrowly. With polls showing Americans increasingly anxious about the economy, ever fewer Republicans can risk linking their fates to Mr. Bush's obstinacy. 
 When Congress returns from Thanksgiving break, Democratic leaders should make another attempt to advance the spending bills. The best approach would be to reach a compromise with their Republican counterparts -- the two sides aren't all that far apart, and a deal would let Mr. Bush know his vetoes are unwelcome. 
 This White House is guilty of runaway spending -- on the war and on tax cuts for the rich. Ending the war and rolling back excessive tax cuts are the way to control spending, not cutting needed government services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); VETO (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); TAX INCREASES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); ONCOLOGY (67%); CANCER (67%); THANKSGIVING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



569 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2183 words

HEADLINE: Rice's Turnabout on Mideast Peace Talks

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Both articles are adapted from ''Condoleezza Rice: An American Life,'' by Elisabeth Bumiller, to be published next month by Random House.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
At President Bush's first National Security Council meeting in January 2001, he announced that he did not want to be drawn into the shattered Middle East peace process, people at the meeting recalled, because he believed that former President Bill Clinton had pushed so hard for an Israeli-Palestinian accord that he made the situation worse.
 Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld agreed with the president, while Secretary of State Colin L. Powell countered that even if the breakdown in peace talks during Mr. Clinton's term helped lead to the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising, the United States could not stay aloof.
 Condoleezza Rice, the new national security adviser, kept silent, but privately she shared Mr. Bush's views. 
 ''There was absolutely no prospect of a Middle East peace process that was going to lead to anything,'' she said in an interview in May about her thinking in 2001. ''I just didn't see it.''
 Nearly seven tumultuous years later, Ms. Rice, as secretary of state, has led the Bush administration to a startling turnaround and is now thrusting the United States as forcefully as Mr. Clinton once did into the role of mediator between the Israelis and Palestinians. The culmination of her efforts occurs this week in Annapolis, Md., as Mr. Bush, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, meet to set the outlines of a final peace agreement before the end of Mr. Bush's term.
 For Ms. Rice, Annapolis reflects her evolution from passive participant to activist diplomat who has been willing to break with Mr. Cheney and other conservatives skeptical of an American diplomatic role in the Middle East. Mr. Cheney argued with Ms. Rice against a pivotal Middle East speech that Mr. Bush gave in 2002 in the Rose Garden, fought her on a host of other issues, including Iran and North Korea, and today surrounds himself with senior advisers dubious about the Annapolis meeting. 
 Many other Middle East experts remain unconvinced as well, particularly since the failure so far of the Israelis and Palestinians to agree on a joint statement to come out of the 40-nation conference has forced Ms. Rice to recast Annapolis as the start rather than the end of negotiations. Critics say she is organizing little more than an elaborate photo opportunity.
 ''This administration has too often engaged in stagecraft, not statecraft,'' said Dennis Ross, who was Middle East envoy for Mr. Clinton and the first President George Bush. ''One of the reasons there's so much skepticism from people in the region is that they were led to believe that this was going to be a breakthrough.''
 Ms. Rice's thinking on the Middle East changed for several reasons, her aides said. She has been under increasing pressure to get involved in the peace negotiations from European and Arab leaders whose support she needs for the campaign of diplomatic and economic pressures on Iran. She considers it equally important, her aides said, to shore up the moderate leadership of Mr. Abbas, who is facing a sharp internal challenge from the more militant Hamas faction. 
 Not least, Ms. Rice's supporters say, she is determined to fashion a legacy in the Middle East that extends beyond the war in Iraq.
 Ms. Rice was able to engineer the administration's shift in large part because of her extraordinarily close relationship with the president -- Mr. Bush ''loved Condi,'' said Andrew H. Card Jr., the former White House chief of staff -- and her ability to move him at critical moments. Mr. Bush, Ms. Rice insisted, is also fully committed to the Annapolis meeting.
 ''The president has wanted to see this happen,'' Ms. Rice said in a recent interview. ''We have discussions about how to do it -- is the time right for this or is the time right for that? But this is the president's issue as much as it's mine.''
 A Foot on the Brakes
 Ms. Rice began her journey as a voice of caution in the first big Middle East crisis the White House faced, in the spring of 2002, when a Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up at a large Passover meal in an Israeli beach resort hotel. The militant group Hamas took responsibility, and Israel's leaders, reacting with fury, sent troops and tanks to storm the Ramallah compound of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
 Mr. Bush responded by dispatching Mr. Powell to the region, even though both believed that there was little the United States could do. ''The president said, 'You've got to go, it's going to be ugly, you're going to get beaten up, but you've got a lot of fire wall to burn up,''' Mr. Powell recalled. 
 Ms. Rice, whose first trip to Israel was in 2000, stayed back in Washington to monitor and rein in Mr. Powell. She was the messenger for Mr. Bush, who had adopted his hands-off policy in Middle East negotiations not only because of Mr. Clinton but because he was reluctant to make too many demands on Israel at that point in his term. So as Mr. Powell traveled from fruitless meetings with Ariel Sharon, then the prime minister, in Jerusalem and Mr. Arafat in Ramallah, Ms. Rice was constantly on the telephone admonishing Mr. Powell to slow down to avoid putting too much pressure on Mr. Sharon, Mr. Powell recalled.
 ''She was conveying whatever angst existed in the White House that day,'' Mr. Powell said. ''It was cautionary and wanting to know what I was doing so she could report it to the president.''
 By the end of the trip, Ms. Rice even rejected Mr. Powell's idea of a peace conference in the region, but Mr. Powell dug in. ''I finally told her, late at night, 'You may not like it, but I'm the one who's here, and I've got to say something,''' Mr. Powell said he told Ms. Rice. He announced the conference before returning to Washington, but without support from the White House, the idea was dead.
 The Bush administration might have continued with bursts of attention followed by drift had it not been for the looming war in Iraq. By June 2002, Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice realized that before the Europeans and Arabs would support an American-led invasion, the administration would have to prove that it cared about more in the Middle East than the security of Israel.
 Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice began to engage in a major rethinking. The result was a speech, a major departure in American policy, that called for Palestinian elections and demanded the ouster of Mr. Arafat before the United States would support a Palestinian state. Ms. Rice saw it as the beginning of a notion that one day there could be a democratic Arab Middle East, but Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Cheney, who were strongly opposed to anything that might require Israel to accept a Palestinian state that could become a source for terrorism on its border, objected.
 At a National Security Council meeting a few days before the speech, Mr. Cheney spoke up. ''There was just a sense of was the president inserting himself in something that he didn't have an answer for, and that was possibly going to make things worse or certainly not make them better?'' Ms. Rice said, recalling the nature of Mr. Cheney's doubts. Mr. Rumsfeld eventually agreed with the speech, but the vice president was still opposed on the day that Mr. Bush delivered it, June 24, 2002. 
 ''I think he just thought the president shouldn't be giving a speech on the Middle East, which kind of implied that if something happened, we might re-engage,'' Ms. Rice said. Mr. Cheney declined to comment on Ms. Rice's remarks. 
 Detoured by Iraq
 Over the next year, the peace efforts languished as Ms. Rice and Mr. Bush focused on the coming invasion of Iraq. When Israeli tanks and troops surrounded Mr. Arafat's compound again in September 2002, this time in response to back-to-back suicide bombings, Ms. Rice viewed the siege as damaging to the administration's campaign to enlist support in the Arab world for the war in Iraq. In a White House meeting with Dov Weissglas, then a senior adviser to Mr. Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, Ms. Rice demanded, successfully, that the Israelis withdraw.
 ''She said in her way, politely but very firmly, that the United States was trying to put together the coalition prior to the invasion of Iraq, and our operation at that time was very disturbing,'' Mr. Weissglas said in a recent interview.
 It was not until the eve of the war in March 2003, and then only under pressure from Tony Blair, the British prime minister, that the White House finally endorsed the ''road map,'' a peace plan of incremental steps that was to lead to a Palestinian state in three years. Mr. Bush said he was adopting the plan because the Palestinians had slated Mr. Abbas to take the job of prime minister and negotiate with Israel. 
 By the spring of 2004, when Mr. Bush agreed to support a plan by Mr. Sharon to withdraw Israeli settlers and forces from Gaza, Mr. Sharon asked for something more that set off a huge fight within the administration: American recognition that Palestinian refugees and their descendants who had fled in the 1940s would have a right of return to a new Palestinian state, but not to Israel itself. 
 Ms. Rice agreed that allowing Palestinians to return to Israel would overwhelm the Jewish population and effectively obliterate Israel's identity as a Jewish state. Mr. Cheney and his allies supported Mr. Sharon's request, but the State Department had always taken the position that the issue -- with the final borders of a Palestinian state and how Jerusalem might be shared by the two sides -- should be decided through negotiations, not by fiat from Washington.
 Aware of the debate within the Bush administration, Tzipi Livni, now the Israeli foreign minister but then the minister for immigrant absorption, went to plead her case to Ms. Rice in Washington. ''I had the opportunity to convince Rice,'' Ms. Livni said in an interview with The New York Times earlier this year. 
 Ms. Rice said she understood the issue was ''very, very core'' to Ms. Livni, and acknowledged that Ms. Livni's appeal ''was taken into account in the president's words'' when Mr. Bush made a pivotal announcement, in April 2004, that any ''just, fair and realistic framework'' for Israel would mean that Palestinians would have to settle in their own state -- an enormous benefit to Mr. Sharon.
 A Reckoning Point
 When Ms. Rice became secretary of state in the second term, she told Mr. Bush in a long conversation at Camp David the weekend after the 2004 election that her priority would have to be progress in the Middle East. It was a turning point in more ways than one; Mr. Arafat died a few days later. Although Ms. Rice said in an interview that she had set no conditions when she took the job, her aides said that she had known that her relationship with the president would give her far greater influence to push an agenda, including peacemaking in the Middle East, than Mr. Powell's.
 Accordingly, Ms. Rice spent much of 2005 working on the Gaza withdrawal that she thought would contribute to stability. Instead, it was seen as so emboldening the radicals that in early 2006 Hamas won a landslide victory in Palestinian elections over Mr. Abbas and his governing party, Fatah. 
 Ms. Rice, who had heralded the election as a symbol of the new stirrings of democracy in the Middle East, was so blindsided by the victory that she was startled when she saw a crawl of words on her television screen while exercising on her elliptical trainer the morning after the election: ''In wake of Hamas victory, Palestinian cabinet resigns.'' 
 ''I thought, 'Well, that's not right,''' Ms. Rice recalled. When the crawl continued, she got off the elliptical trainer and called the State Department.
 ''I said, 'What happened in the Palestinian elections?''' Ms. Rice recalled. ''And they said, 'Oh, Hamas won.' And I thought, 'Oh my goodness, Hamas won?'''
 Ms. Rice's credibility was further damaged when she delayed calling for a cease-fire as Israel plunged into a two-front war in Lebanon and Gaza that summer. By the end of 2006, with the peace efforts in shambles and the administration's time running out, Ms. Rice began to pick up the pieces. 
 Over Christmas, she took home reports written by the State Department historian on previous American efforts toward a peace agreement in the Middle East, and met alone in her Watergate apartment with Ms. Livni. There they worked out an ambitious plan to get Mr. Olmert to meet with Mr. Abbas, not on the incremental steps of the road map, but on the big ''final status'' issues of a Palestinian state.
 Since then, Ms. Rice has made eight trips to the region, and her supporters say she remains determined against the odds. ''She knows very well if she doesn't do anything, she will be Iraq,'' a European diplomat and a friend of hers said. 
 Mr. Weissglas had another interpretation. ''I don't think she's led by the desire to get a Nobel Prize for Peace,'' he said. ''But I think she truly believes in the last five years conditions have changed on both sides that enable now a step toward a final resolution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hamas supporters in the Gaza Strip after the January 2006 election there. Ms. Rice said the militant group's victory had surprised her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A10)
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, with Mahmoud Abbas, left, the Palestinian president, and Ehud Olmert, Israel's prime minister, in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTY STERN/U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); CONSERVATISM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (59%); HAMAS (59%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (91%) MARYLAND USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007



570 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Radio Rater Postpones People Meter In Some Cities

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Arbitron delayed a wider rollout of a contentious new system for measuring radio audiences yesterday, prompting sighs of relief from some New York radio stations but driving the company's stock price sharply lower in after-hours trading. 
 Shareholders were told to expect lower-than-expected earnings in both 2007 and 2008 as a result of the delay.
 Arbitron's new measurement method, called the personal people meter, met with staunch opposition this month when a test showed steep declines for several radio stations catering to younger listeners and minorities.
 ''Our real concern has not been the tool itself, but the sample and the compliance measures,'' said Ceril Shagrin, an executive vice president for corporate research at Univision Communications, a major Spanish-language broadcaster, echoing concerns that young listeners and ethnic groups are not adequately represented in the meter ratings.
 Arbitron said it remained confident in the people meter ratings, but it wanted more time to address the issues raised by its clients. 
 Arbitron had set an aggressive timetable for moving from paper diaries to people meters, which electronically monitor exposure to radio stations throughout the day. Radio audiences in Houston and Philadelphia are already being measured under the new system. The meters were to be used to set advertising rates for New York stations beginning in December. 
 Under the new timeline, stations in New York, Long Island and parts of northern New Jersey would begin using the meter ratings next September, nine months later than originally scheduled. The rollout in Los Angeles; Riverside, Calif.; Chicago; San Francisco; San Jose, Calif.; and Dallas has also been moved to September.
 After hours, Arbitron shares fell 12.3 percent, or $6.01, to $42.90, near a 52-week low.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%)

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



571 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: European Official Faults Ban on Genetically Altered Feed

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
The European agriculture commissioner, Mariann Fischer Boel, warned farm ministers on Monday that Europe's resistance to importing genetically modified products like livestock feed was contributing to the rising cost of raising pigs and chickens and could pose a threat to the meat industry. 
 Her warning, made during a closed-door lunch in Brussels, highlighted renewed debate over whether Europe could afford to impose tougher rules on genetically modified products than other parts of the world. 
 Some European officials say the region should maintain its skeptical stance toward the technology on safety grounds, while others argue for a more pragmatic approach to enhance the region's competitiveness and help the agricultural sector. 
 Michael Mann, a spokesman for Ms. Fischer Boel, said Monday that the European Union's zero-tolerance policy toward genetically modified foods comes at ''potential major cost.''
 One reason European policies toward genetically modified feed raise costs is that ships bound for Europe must be thoroughly cleaned so feed for Europe is not mixed with feed grown from seeds that have not been approved for use in the European Union. 
 At the lunch, Ms. Fischer Boel did not explicitly recommend relaxing the rules, according to one official from a European Union member that broadly opposes genetically modified products. But she seemed to be stepping up pressure for a modification of the policy, said the official, who asked not to be identified. 
 Germany's agriculture minister, Horst Seehofer, called on Monday for the European Union to suspend its approval procedure for new genetically modified crops and seeds, demanding that governments review how such products can be used in Europe.
 Before the meeting, he said that this system ''should be stopped, and we should check: can the procedures stay as they are?''
 Mr. Seehofer called the current system, which has been criticized by several European Union nations, ''highly unsatisfactory.'' 
 Environmental groups that oppose easing the rules on imports of genetically modified products say many of the arguments for relaxing the policy on modified feed are specious. 
 Helen Holder, an expert on genetically modified food with Friends of the Earth Europe in Brussels, said prices were rising because more farmers in the United States and elsewhere were growing crops for biofuels as demand was rising for crops to feed livestock. 
 Rather than relaxing its import rules, Ms. Holder said, the European Union should drop proposals to require more use of biofuels and change rules so farmers can use more home-grown feeds. 
 ''The E.U. needs to stand firm and defend its biosafety rules,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); LIVESTOCK FEED (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); APPROVALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BIOFUELS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



572 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Animated Future, This Time on DVD

BYLINE: By JOE RHODES

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

 BODY:
As far back as 2002, a year before the last original Sunday night episode of ''Futurama'' was broadcast on Fox, it was clear to the show's creators, Matt Groening and David X. Cohen, that their show was about to be history. An animated vision of the 30th century, it was a brightly colored world populated by larcenous robots; one-eyed, purple-haired mutants; space alien news anchors; and one very confused cryogenically frozen pizza delivery boy. 
 ''We were in the writers' room, in a building owned by Fox,'' Mr. Cohen remembered, ''and a real estate agent comes through, showing our offices to prospective tenants. We figured that was a bad sign.''
 ''The call,'' as Mr. Cohen put it, came soon after. Although new episodes would be broadcast until August 2003, their debuts delayed by the lengthy animation process and frequent pre-emptions, ''Futurama'' was canceled after a 72-episode run that had begun in 1999. 
 Billy West, the voice of many of the show's most prominent characters, including Fry, the displaced delivery boy, recalled: ''You could tell the thing had run aground. They'd pre-empt it for leaves falling off a tree.'' 
 ''In my heart of hearts,'' he added later, ''I thought the show was too good to end like that.'' 
 Mr. Groening and Mr. Cohen, who also served as executive producers, felt the same way, as did the show's loyal fans, who lobbied for its return. Those online armies reveled in the series's detailed animation, background jokes (including alien-coded graffiti) and lovingly satiric take on a '50s pulp sci-fi sensibility. 
 Encouraged by healthy DVD sales of the show's first season and strong ratings for late-night reruns on the Cartoon Network beginning in 2003, Mr. Groening and Mr. Cohen approached Fox executives about ways to resurrect ''Futurama.'' To no avail.
 ''We suggested coming back with direct-to-DVD episodes a couple of times,'' said Mr. Cohen, who has a degree in physics from Harvard. ''I had even typed up this elaborate mathematical presentation on how it couldn't possibly lose money. We never really got any response.''
 Until 2005, when, Mr. Cohen said, ''Fox called us and said, 'How would you like to do a DVD?' And we said, 'That seems like a good idea.'''
 And that is how ''Bender's Big Score,'' the first of four direct-to-DVD feature-length ''Futurama'' movies, came to be released today. The other three discs will be issued over the next year, and the new material will also be edited into 16 half-hour episodes to be broadcast on Comedy Central as part of that network's acquisition of ''Futurama'' rerun rights.
 ''It's interesting that a studio now sees it as viable to release a show with a prime-time budget directly to DVD and expects to make their money back,'' Mr. Cohen said. He and Mr. Groening have been walking picket lines in the writers' strike, in which a central issue is the amount of compensation writers will receive from material released exclusively on DVDs or distributed through the Internet. 
 Steven Melnick, senior vice president of marketing for Fox Television, said his studio began to consider a ''Futurama'' resurrection after the successful direct-to-DVD release of new episodes of ''Family Guy'' in 2005. That Fox animated show had been canceled but found new life in Cartoon Network reruns and compilation DVD sales. The series rejoined the Fox prime-time roster in May 2005.
 ''It took a little while for people to understand what the economics would be to support this,'' Mr. Melnick said, ''but 'Family Guy' showed us it is possible to green-light new episodes without a network commitment.''
 The ''Futurama'' creators, interviewed together in Mr. Groening's production office here, said they were thrilled to find that the studio believed it made more economic sense to commit to four DVD movies: cheaper than hiring and rehiring writers, directors, voice actors and animators for one movie at a time.
 ''It's basically a miracle that we were able to get back almost our entire crew,'' Mr. Cohen said, noting that the original cast is back, and that the animation is being done by the same studio that did the series, although this time in a wide-screen, high-definition format. 
 Although the budget was roughly comparable to what it cost to produce a season of the original series, the writing staff for the movies was smaller, and the operation was ''much more informal and with less support personnel,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 But there was also less interference. ''There were no network censors, no broadcast standards to worry about,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''It was kind of left to us to set the tone we wanted.''
 Which is why significant elements of the story take place on a nude-beach planet, a concept that had been on the ''Futurama'' idea board since the first season and features all manner of alien backsides. ''There is a profusion of buttocks,'' Mr. Cohen admits. ''We pushed it a little bit in the buttocks department.''
 There are also cameos from Sarah Silverman, Coolio and a surprisingly uninhibited (although not in any way naked) Al Gore. The story, full of elaborate twists, is essentially a time-travel tale loaded with flashbacks to the original series and more than its share of inside jokes, many requiring freeze-frame study to appreciate fully.
 Though Mr. Groening and Mr. Cohen said they would be willing to continue with the direct-to-DVD model, they would rather have ''Futurama'' evolve into a theatrically released feature film or return to network television.
 ''It would be very vindicating to come back as a series,'' said Mr. Groening, adding that he felt that the show, his first animation project after ''The Simpsons,'' never received the promotional push it deserved on Fox.
 '''Futurama' always felt like an underdog show to me,'' he said. '''The Simpsons' is a show that you're always competing with people's favorite memories of the past, trying to live up to them. With 'Futurama' you're not just watching the show, you're also rooting for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from ''Bender's Big Score,'' a ''Futurama'' straight-to-DVD movie being released today. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT GROENING/20TH CENTURY FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); FILM (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (72%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



573 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Hockey Tradition Gives Way To Replays and Bottom Line

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' chief executive, president and general manager, considers himself a hockey traditionalist, which should come as no surprise to those who have watched the teams he assembled win three Stanley Cups.
 ''I'd still like to see the boards white,'' he said with a chuckle not long ago.
 The boards at arenas are covered with advertisements these days, and now Lamoriello has to deal with another change in tradition: When the Devils moved to Prudential Center in Newark this season, the goal-judge booths did not make the trip. 
 The N.H.L. still has goal judges, but they do not all still sit in Plexiglas boxes behind the end boards in back of the goals. In at least 20 of the 30 arenas, the judges sit in the lower stands or in press boxes. 
 After 90 years, goal judges were moved for two reasons: 
 With instant replay available and a second referee next to the goal, goal judges are not exactly judges. They still push a button to turn on a light to let the crowd know a goal was scored, but they and the referees can be overruled by conclusive replay evidence. ''People want to see the right calls made,'' Mike Murphy, a former player and coach who is the N.H.L.'s vice president for hockey operations, said in a recent telephone interview from his office in Toronto.
 The second reason, not surprisingly, was money. The booths took up space that could be filled with seats -- choice seats that can fetch high prices. At Prudential Center, for instance, the Devils can sell six extra front-row tickets at $200 each.
 At Wachovia Center in Philadelphia, where the goal judges sit in the press box, 12 goal-judge seats -- 6 at each end of the rink -- are sold for at least $500 apiece, far more than the $89 face value of all the other lower-bowl seats.
 ''Any time we can add a new experience or create a new product, it generates fan exposure and enhances the product,'' said Shawn Tilger, the Flyers' vice president for marketing and communications.
 At Nassau Coliseum, the booths were in front of the first row of seats, but they were taken out because they obstructed fans' views. The judges now sit in boxes at the top of the lower bowl, the same area they occupy at Madison Square Garden. 
 ''We know it's a tradition, and it was not something we take lightly, but in the end, we decided it was better for the customers,'' said Chris Botta, an Islanders spokesman.
 Lamoriello said he was disappointed to see the booths go. But he understood the economics behind the N.H.L.'s decision to recommend relocating the judges. He also understood that TV cameras could do what the judges did, only better.
 ''With modern technology and television available, we'd be under so much criticism if there were mistakes made if we didn't use these things,'' Lamoriello said. 
 In the time before television and computers that can replay, magnify and freeze frame questionable goals, goal umpires stood on the ice or on a nearby snowbank, the hockey historian J. W. Fitzell said.
 ''It was a hazardous trade,'' Fitzell said in a telephone interview from his home in Kingston, Ontario.
 Besides the risk of standing in the middle of the action, goal umpires were often chosen from the home crowd and were often threatened by visiting players after a questionable goal. Often, they were replaced in the middle of a game.
 The goal light made its debut in 1917, Fitzell said, and the judges soon moved to safer booths outside the boards, and these days they are part-time employees of the N.H.L. For many years, they were integral to the game; referees often consulted the judges to verify that a goal had been scored.
 ''They were your eyes, particularly in amateur games played in smaller arenas that were often smoke-filled,'' Fitzell said. ''The light was the answer that set off the crowd.''
 But the N.H.L. implemented video reviews in the 1991-92 season and added a second referee seven years later. Goal judges were only there to turn the red lights on, and the N.H.L. figured they could do that as well from other places in an arena.
 First, though, the league did some research. At the All-Star Game last season in Dallas, the goal judges sat in the press box. Murphy, the N.H.L. vice president for hockey operations, said the judges were moved to higher locations in four or five arenas.
 ''We found out it worked,'' Murphy said. ''It was O.K. It wasn't prohibitive in identifying a goal in timely enough fashion.''
 The league even experimented with not turning the goal light on at all, but Murphy said the crowd's response to a goal was much less immediate -- not to mention much quieter. So the lights stayed atop the glass on both ends of the ice.
 ''The value of the light is significant,'' Lamoriello said. ''You want to get people excited, enthused.''
 Murphy said about 600 goals -- about one every two games -- were reviewed last season in a room at N.H.L. headquarters in Toronto that is manned by a staff of 10, Murphy included, with access to every television angle. They have access to a video goal judge and to the referees.
 ''We really are the eyes and ears of the league,'' Murphy said.
 He said that he had been in contact with someone who had developed the technology to set off a goal light by sensing that a puck had crossed the goal line. ''We're still trying to figure a way to get the light on electronically,'' he said.
 And when they do, the goal judge, like white boards, will probably disappear, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An N.H.L. goal judge, in the boxes at the top of the lower bowl at Nassau Coliseum, used his wireless remote control to set off the red light after a goal was scored. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



574 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: The Timing, Luck and Lust Behind the Forming of That More Perfect Union

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
AMERICAN CREATION 
 Triumphs and Tragedies at the Founding of the Republic
 By Joseph J. Ellis 
 283 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
 Henry Adams once observed that a chronological survey of American presidents might suggest that Darwin got it exactly backward, and many students of history have come to see the founding fathers as a generation of demigods whose like will never be seen again -- demigods who magically devised a set of ideas and institutions that would eventually become a blueprint for democracy around the world. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton -- these members of the Revolutionary generation and their colleagues were visionaries responsible not only for the triumph of representative government rooted in the principle of popular sovereignty, but also for the flowering of a free-market economy, a secular state unaffiliated with any official religion and the rule of law based on the equality of citizens.
 But while the historian Joseph J. Ellis acknowledges in his compelling new book that these leaders belonged to ''the most politically creative era in American history,'' he also quotes John Adams, who pointed out that things were ''patched and piebald then,'' that contingency played a large role in shaping the decisions of leaders who were often making it up as they went along, teetering on the edge of the abyss. 
 As Mr. Ellis wrote in an earlier book, ''Founding Brothers'': ''What in retrospect has the look of a foreordained unfolding of God's will was in reality an improvisational affair in which sheer chance, pure luck -- both good and bad -- and specific decisions made in the crucible of specific military and political crises determined the outcome.''
 Mr. Ellis's new book, ''American Creation,'' is very much a bookend to ''Founding Brothers,'' another series of meditations upon the Revolutionary generation and its triumphs and failures in inventing the United States of America. Whereas ''Founding Brothers'' tended to pivot around half a dozen key players and their relationships with one another, ''American Creation'' focuses more on a series of key moments: most notably, Valley Forge as a turning point in the Revolutionary War; the standoff between the Federalists and their opponents, which led to the modern two-party system; and the consequences that the Louisiana Purchase would have on slavery and the treatment of Indians, the two most conspicuous and consequential failures of the founding generation.
 Although this book is highly discursive and at times unfocused, it is animated by Mr. Ellis's consummate familiarity with his subject matter and his ability -- on dazzling display in his books on John Adams (''Passionate Sage''), Thomas Jefferson (''American Sphinx'') and George Washington (''His Excellency'') -- to show how character informs decision making and how friendships and rivalries among the founders shaped the birth of the infant nation. 
 As Mr. Ellis sees it, the ideological and temperamental diversity of these leaders was a central element in their success: Their different beliefs about the meaning of the American Revolution created an intellectual ferment that enhanced creativity and ''replicated the checks and balances of the Constitution with a human version of the same principle.''
 What other factors led to the founders' phenomenal successes? How were Washington's rag-tag, ill-equipped soldiers able to defeat the British Army and Navy, then the most powerful military force in the world? How was this small group of leaders able to establish a nation-size republic with institutions and political mechanisms that would not only ensure its survival but that would also in time become a model of representative government? 
 Timing and space, Mr. Ellis argues, gave the Americans incalculable advantages: timing in the sense that the nation's birth came, in Washington's words, at ''an Epoch when the rights of mankind were better understood and more clearly defined, than at any former period,'' and space in the sense that geography gave America almost limitless resources and the sort of vastness that would place impossible demands on the occupying British forces.
 Mr. Ellis also notes that historians specializing in the Revolutionary era have made various attempts to answer the ''How did they do it?'' question. Douglass Adair, he says, has suggested that the founders' ''lust for fame'' -- not just popular recognition in their day, but the acclaim of future generations -- made them link their personal ambitions to the long-term interests of the nation, and do their utmost to ensure that nation's success. 
 Gordon Wood has pointed out that the founders belonged to a post-aristocratic, predemocratic age that nurtured the emergence of a self-conscious and unembarrassed political elite. And Bernard Bailyn has argued that America's early leaders, far removed from the suffocating influence of Europe, were freer to question conventional wisdom and invent truths of their own.
 It is Mr. Ellis's achievement in this volume that he once again leaves us with a keen appreciation of the good fortune America had in having the right men in the right places at the right times: the indispensable Washington as head of the Continental Army, and the supremely capable Nathanael Greene as his quartermaster general, say, and the politically savvy and ever-prepared James Madison at the Constitutional Convention.
 In addition, Mr. Ellis reminds us of the role that circumstance and luck played in shaping the nation's fortune. Had Washington had more troops, for instance, he might very well have taken a more confrontational approach to the British Army instead of adopting the largely defensive posture he did after Valley Forge, a posture that, in forcing the British to struggle for the hearts and minds of ordinary citizens in the sprawling countryside, drained British resources and helped turn the tide. 
 Had the black population of Santo Domingo not rebelled against the French, costing Napoleon's army more than 60,000 casualties, France would have most likely continued its efforts to regain its empire in North America and would have never agreed to sell the entire Louisiana Territory to the United States at the bargain price of $15 million.
 That surprise acquisition also underscores the failure of the Revolutionary generation ''to recognize the opportunity presented by the Purchase to revisit the Native American question so as to avoid removal,'' Mr. Ellis writes, and its ''unwillingness to use this extraordinary occasion to promote the possibility of prohibiting the expansion of slavery into the Louisiana Territory.'' 
 Instead, he goes on, the Louisiana Purchase sealed the doom of Indians east of the Mississippi, providing a place where Eastern tribes could be relocated, and Jefferson's failure to prohibit slavery there (presumably out of fear that doing so might lead to a civil war) ended what Mr. Ellis calls ''the last realistic opportunity for the United States to implement a policy of gradual emancipation.'' 
 The mixed legacy of the founders -- their remarkable achievements, coupled with their tragic failures to put an end to slavery and prevent the removal of Native Americans -- defies both the popular conception of the founders as marble statue heroes and the more recent revisionist view of them as ''the deadest-whitest-males in American history.'' 
 It makes, as Mr. Ellis observes in this illuminating book, for ''an epic historical narrative that defies all moralistic categories, a story line rooted in the coexistence of grace and sin, grandeur and failure, brilliance and blindness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''George Washington Addressing the Constitutional Convention,'' Junius Brutus Stearns, 1856. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS PHOTO/VIRGINIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS) (pg. E6)
 Joseph J. Ellis (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM GIPE) (pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); RELIGION (73%); CHURCH & STATE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: American Creation (Book)>; American Creation (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



575 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Stock Slump Reaches a Milestone; Citigroup Sells a Stake

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Concerns that problems in the credit market could push the economy into a recession drove investors to the safety of Treasuries yesterday and led to a sell-off of stocks. 
 In a significant move, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, hit its lowest point in more than three years, suggesting a weakening in investor confidence from levels that were already low. 
 All three major stock indexes have now dropped more than 10 percent from their highs, the generally accepted definition of a market correction. 
 Market specialists say investors are increasingly concerned that they still do not know how bad the fallout in the mortgage market will be, nearly a year after problems surfaced.
 ''The uncertainty is in the hidden land mines, if you will,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.
 For the broader economy, the danger from the rush into Treasuries is that it will further limit the availability of credit to consumers and businesses, possibly slowing the economy even more. Banks and investors have already become more strict about lending to customers with blemished credit histories and are charging much higher rates to businesses with ratings below investment grade.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.841 percent yesterday, from 4.001 percent late Friday and 4.403 a month ago. It was the biggest one-day drop in the yield in more than three years. 
 With financial stocks leading the way, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.3 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 237.44 points, or 1.8 percent, to 12,743.44. 
 Both indexes are down more than 10 percent from record closes on Oct. 9. It is the first time they have fallen that much since the bear market ended in October 2002. The Nasdaq composite index was off 2.1 percent, putting it more than 11 percent below its peak on Oct. 31. Much of yesterday's decline came in the last hour and a half.
 Stock markets were also down in Europe and Latin America, with Mexican and Brazilian indexes falling about 3 percent. Stocks opened sharply lower in Japan this morning.
 Earlier in the day, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York tried to ease some anxiety by saying that it would offer a longer term for financing in the money market than it does usually. It will start with $8 billion tomorrow and the Fed said it would lend as much as is needed to keep overnight bank lending rates at its target of 4.5 percent. The bank also increased the amount of money securities dealers could borrow.
 American and European central bankers have been trying to keep capital flowing smoothly in the main arteries of the world's financial system. But they have been stymied by the uncertainty surrounding the quality of the investments that banks and brokerage firms created, sold and held during the credit boom. 
 Each time investors think that policy makers have effectively come to the rescue, another large institution reveals a portfolio tainted with shaky bonds.
 ''What they have done so far isn't really fixing the problem; it isn't easing credit,'' Douglas Peta, chief market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, an investment firm in New York, said of the Fed and other central banks.
 Yesterday, investors appeared to be focused on news that Citigroup, the world's largest bank, is considering more layoffs. Citigroup shares fell 3.2 percent, to $30.70; it is down nearly 45 percent for the year. After hours, Citigroup shares dropped another 2.9 percent to $29.80. Another large bank, HSBC, said it would help rescue two investment vehicles by taking $45 billion in assets onto its balance sheet to avoid their being sold at current prices.
 Banks have already written off about $50 billion in bonds tied to home loans, and some economists estimate the total losses could be $400 billion.
 While the Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark interest rate twice in recent months, by 0.75 percentage point, the actions have not helped lower the cost of borrowing for most banks and financial institutions. 
 Policy makers meet again on Dec. 11, but they have signaled in several public appearances that they do not see a need to cut interest rates further. 
 One indication that the Fed's rate cuts are not easing the flow of capital can be seen in the premium that investors are demanding to hold risky assets. High-yield debt is fetching a yield of 10.46 percent, up from 8.91 percent at the start of October. In other risky assets like bonds tied to subprime mortgages there is little to no trading going on. 
 ''There is so much uncertainty and almost paranoia among certain market participants that market moves tend to be manic at times,'' said Derrick Wulf, a portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm based in Burlington, Vt. ''Today we saw credit spreads widen across asset classes.''
 Shares of finance companies and discretionary consumer products have taken the biggest beatings recently. But other sectors like technology where companies, especially semiconductor makers, have reported slowing growth have also started to slip. (Technology shares remain up for the year, whereas the overall S.& P. 500 is down 0.8 percent.)
 ''Until someone can quantify how bad the problem is, there will be a fear factor,'' said Scott Black, president of Delphi Investments, an investment firm in Boston. ''And nobody wants to own financial stocks.'' 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS Chart details line graph for S.& P. 500
DOW INDUSTRIALS
and 10-YEAR TREASURY for October and November.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart shows line graph
3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)Chart shows line graph
Dow Corrections: Falls in the Dow industrials of at least 10 percent from a record high since World War II. Some corrections ended immediately, while others lengthened into prolonged bear markets.
Dow Corrections Falls in the Dow industrials of at least 10 percent from a record high since World War II. Some corrections ended immediately, while others lengthened into prolonged bear markets.
 The Favorites: Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. Chart shows top stocks. (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



576 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: A Bit of Land of One's Own

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Henry Louis Gates Jr., in ''Forty Acres and a Gap in Wealth'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 18), strikingly recalls that ''the biggest gap in black prosperity isn't in income, but in wealth,'' and that this wealth gap originated with the critical failure to allocate farmland to the freed slaves of the Reconstruction South. 
 Professor Gates grieves that ''we can only imagine how different black-white relations would be'' had land distribution been official government policy.
 This vital point about the United States, past and present, also brings home in an especially poignant way the fact that there are still many developing countries that confront, today, the issue of giving their poorest and weakest even a fraction of an acre of the earth's surface to call their own. 
 Roy Prosterman Seattle, Nov. 21, 2007 The writer is the founder and emeritus chairman of the Rural Development Institute.
 To the Editor:
 I strongly agree with the sentiments expressed in Henry Louis Gates Jr.'s article. 
 I am half African-American and half Irish-American and have written a historical memoir that compares the activities of both sides of my family over the course of almost 200 years of shared American experience. 
 While Professor Gates saw land ownership as determinative of empowerment, I similarly concluded that what permitted the two sides of my family to achieve economic parity by the time of my parents' marriage in San Francisco in 1960 was the fact that at least half of my eight African-American great-great-grandparents were free before the Civil War. 
 Whether they bought it, took it or were given it, that circumstance of freedom allowed early participation in the economy, including land ownership, which in turn permitted an economic advantage for which I remain thankful to this day.
 Jennifer Lusser Vienna, Nov. 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); WRITERS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EARTH (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



577 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Hospital Moves To Unburden Itself of Debt

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK and SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
The politically appointed board of Atlanta's troubled charity hospital effectively voted itself out of business Monday, the first step in at least a short-term escape from the insolvency that had threatened the region's only top-level trauma center.
 Without the financial bailout made possible by the vote, the hospital, Grady Memorial, was at risk of not meeting its payroll, perhaps by the end of the year, hospital officials had warned. Though Grady, like most public hospitals, has faced intermittent financial crises in the past, this one has generated real anxiety because of its roots in a collision of national forces, including the unchecked growth of uncompensated care and deep cuts in government reimbursements. 
 Political leaders and medical officials have worried that Grady, woven into Atlanta's social fabric since 1892, might follow Martin Luther King Jr.-Harbor Hospital in Los Angeles County as a casualty in 2007. If so, the consequence would be a ''patient tsunami'' at other area hospitals, the Metropolitan Atlanta Chamber of Commerce said in a report earlier this year.
 Grady -- which supplies the region with its only 24-hour trauma center as well as poison control and burn units and large clinics for AIDS and sickle cell anemia -- has operated in the red for 10 of the last 11 years. It is expected to run a deficit of $50 million to $55 million in this year's $730 million budget. 
 The hospital owes an accumulated $63 million to its biggest creditors, the medical school at Emory University and the Morehouse School of Medicine, which provide its doctors and have threatened to train residents elsewhere. Republican state legislators had threatened a state takeover if local officials did not reconstitute the hospital's governance structure.
 Following a raucous meeting marked by chants and protest, the 10-member Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority voted unanimously to hand daily control of Grady and its affiliated clinics and services to a nonprofit corporation to be formed for that purpose.
 A Chamber of Commerce task force had advised earlier this year that a governance change was needed to remove the hospital from the control of the elected commissioners of Fulton and DeKalb Counties and to restore the confidence of lenders, foundations and Georgia's Republican leaders. 
 Advocates for patients have warned that the hospital would become less responsive to community needs if it was operated by a less political board. But with few other options and Grady's fiscal condition worsening, the authority felt it had little choice.
 ''In three weeks, our cash position would have been zero,'' the authority's vice chairman, Dr. Chris Edwards, said at the meeting Monday.
 In its resolution, the hospital authority, which would continue to own Grady's buildings and land, made explicit that its willingness to hand over control depended on substantial financial commitments from both the public and private sectors.
 Before the lease, to be executed by Dec. 31, becomes effective, the hospital must receive written commitments for a capital infusion of $200 million from businesses and philanthropies.
 In addition, the resolution demands that state leaders provide written support for $30 million in new state aid.
 A. D. Correll, a former chairman of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation and the co-chairman of the task force, said he considered the vote a critical first step, though with provisos attached. ''They were a surprise, a lot of them,'' Mr. Correll said of the conditions, ''and they require action on a whole lot of people's parts.'' 
 Mr. Correll said a single anonymous donor had agreed to give the hospital $200 million if the donor approved of the governance system changes. He said he was confident that the private sector could raise an additional $100 million in two or three years.
 The fate of the hospital has become a keenly watched civic drama, overlaid with issues of race and class. 
 Some black activists and elected officials had warned that the governance change would shift control of the hospital from black political leaders to white business leaders. The hospital's problems, they said, are financial and not political.
 Chamber of Commerce officials, white and black, have responded that the only color that matters in the campaign to save Grady is green. And justifiably or not, they say, business leaders and state officials were willing to participate in a rescue only if they saw a real departure from past practice, when the hospital's board was perceived to lack technical expertise and the will to block corruption and cronyism.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The board of a troubled charity hospital in Atlanta voted yesterday to dissolve itself, opening the door to a financial bailout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); TRAUMA CENTERS (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); BOARD CHANGES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WOUND CARE (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); ANEMIA (67%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (64%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



578 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Sets Bailout Plan For Assets Of 2 Funds

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Europe's largest bank, HSBC Holdings, said Monday that it would bail out its two structured investment vehicles, or SIVs, by taking $45 billion in assets onto its balance sheet.
 The move was an attempt to repair investor confidence and create a long-term solution for assets that have become difficult to value or sell since problems with subprime mortgages in the United States sent jitters through the global credit markets.
 Another British bank, Northern Rock, also moved to repair damage caused by the tight credit markets by picking the Virgin Group as its preferred buyer. 
 HSBC said Monday in a statement that investors in the two SIVs -- Cullinan Finance and Asscher Finance -- would be able to swap their holdings for debt issued by a new company backed by HSBC loans. The bank said that it did not expect the move to have a material impact on its earnings or capital strength.
 Three institutions -- Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase -- are working to set up a $75 billion fund to stabilize the SIVs, which use short-term financing to buy higher-yielding and longer-term debt and are among the biggest buyers of pools of mortgages and other complex asset-backed securities. 
 The bailout means HSBC will not participate in the larger SIV fund, a bank spokesman said. Instead, HSBC expects its action to ''set a benchmark and restore a degree of confidence to the SIV sector, while providing a specific solution to address the challenges faced by investors in Cullinan and Asscher,'' Stuart Gulliver, HSBC's chief executive of corporate and investment banking, said in the statement. 
 The step may prompt other banks to seek similar solutions, some analysts said.
 While HSBC may have found a way to bolster investor confidence in its SIVs, some bank executives are still concerned about additional write-downs, especially after HSBC said earlier this month that losses in the housing market were spreading to credit card and other consumer loans, forcing it to set aside $3.4 billion, more than it had forecast four months earlier. 
 HSBC may have to set aside an additional $12 billion for bad debts, Roy Ramos and other Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note, lowering their recommendation for the stock to sell, from neutral. Shares of HSBC fell about 16 pence, to $:8.12 in London trading Monday. They have dropped 13 percent this year.
 Shares in Northern Rock, in the meantime, rose 33 percent, to $:1.15 after the troubled mortgage lender -- looking for a buyer to help repay more than $41 billion in emergency loans from the Bank of England -- said it planned to speed up takeover discussions with Virgin while continuing to explore other options.
 Virgin's bidding group, which includes the billionaire investor Wilbur L. Ross, proposed to immediately repay $:11 billion of loans as part of ''a clear path toward repayment in full'' and to bring Northern Rock under the Virgin brand by combining it with Virgin Money.
 Virgin would also inject $:1.3 billion into Northern Rock, half of which it aims to finance by offering new shares to existing shareholders at 25 pence each. The implied value of Virgin Money is $:250 million, bringing the total investment from Virgin, which would own 55 percent of Northern Rock, to $:1.55 billion, or $3.2 billion, Northern Rock said. 
 The chairman of Northern Rock, Bryan Sanderson, said in a statement that he was ''pleased that a solution that firmly restores the company's prospects has been identified.''
 Northern Rock had to ask for emergency assistance when turmoil in the credit markets caused the bank's access to financing to dry up, causing panic among its depositors and a run on the bank. 
 A solution for Northern Rock would come as a relief for the British government, which has been criticized for being slow to react to the credit squeeze. 
 Pressure on Chancellor Alistair Darling to find a solution mounted as the possible burden on British taxpayers became clear and the emergency loans exceeded the country's transport budget. The situation has already dented the Labor government's reputation for economic competence and a failure to find a buyer may force it to either nationalize Northern Rock or put it into administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); NORTHERN ROCK PLC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



579 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: In-Store Wi-Fi Is Free, But Not Commercial-Free

BYLINE: By LIA MILLER

 BODY:
PEOPLE who like to use their laptops, iPhones and other devices in public are always so delighted when they stumble on a wireless hot spot in an unexpected place. Will they be pleased enough to look at ads before getting their broadband fix?
 AnchorFree, a company in Sunnyvale, Calif., that is two and a half years old, has introduced a service that lets merchants of any size -- from a large bookstore chain to a mom-and-pop restaurant -- offer free advertising-supported Wi-Fi to customers on the store premises. People who are shopping or eating in an AnchorFree location will see banner ads on their screens or short video spots or both before their browsing session. 
 Among the major companies that have signed up to advertise are American Express, Circuit City, Clorox, Ford, Kaiser Permanente, McDonald's, Toyota and Major League Baseball.
 Mark Smith, executive vice president for marketing and strategy at AnchorFree, said that advertisers could tailor their ads to reach people at specific locations in the network. For example, an ad for a Lexus might be shown to customers staying at a four-star hotel, but not to guests at an airport motel. ''Advertisers could target airport travelers versus vehicle travelers, for instance,'' he said.
 Considering the growing number of hand-held devices that offer Web browsing, Mr. Smith said he viewed the Wi-Fi network as an untapped market of virtual billboards. Controlling this valuable bit of real estate, he said, gives companies ''the ability for them to have their own branded relationship'' with people ''while they are their point of consumption.''
 Until recently, the two most widespread options people had for using wireless broadband at public hot spots have been either paying a subscription fee to their cellphone carrier or paying a daily or hourly rate to the retailer that is host of the site. AnchorFree is one of a handful of companies offering an alternative business model, one in which the advertiser pays but the retailer and the Web surfer do not. 
 Businesses that traditionally offer Wi-Fi to customers -- hotels, for example -- can sign up with AnchorFree at no cost and collect a share of up to 50 percent of the advertising revenue. For small businesses, which might not be able to afford Wi-Fi service, AnchorFree will supply the necessary router and other technology at no cost.
 The retailer can then promote its free wireless service, which could prove to be a competitive advantage. Some hotels, for instance, charge guests $10 to $15 a night for Wi-Fi access. 
 Mr. Smith said that AnchorFree's technology created a ''persistent messaging frame'' by pushing down the Web page on a device's screen and inserting a space for a banner ad. The space is independent of the Web pages being viewed and does not change based on where the user is surfing.
 AnchorFree offers several options to retailers and advertisers. With the open network option, a retailer agrees to run any ad from the AnchorFree rotation, and in the closed network option a company with multiple locations (like a bookstore chain or hotel) can run its own advertising or other messages within that network.
 Brad Agens, senior vice president for advertising sales at Gorilla Nation, a company that connects online advertisers to more than 500 Web sites, said that AnchorFree was the first network it was representing. He said that companies seeking to buy ad space online were ''looking beyond the portals and the large, branded destinations, the ESPNs, the MTVs.''
 AnchorFree is not the only company to offer an advertising network for mobile broadband. JiWire, based in San Francisco, has a similar system, though a different technological approach.
 Analysts in the wireless industry say they expect that this sector will evolve and mature along with the growth of wireless Internet use. 
 ''The real key is whether advertisers will embrace this model and drive online advertising revenue toward Wi-Fi hot spots,'' said Berge Ayvazian, chief strategy officer with the Yankee Group, a technology research and consulting group.
 He said it was too early to evaluate whether wireless advertising would emerge as a distinct and robust market, separate from the more established realm of online advertising. 
 ''New economic models around advertising are disruptive,'' Mr. Ayvazian said. ''If companies like AnchorFree can add a new layer of innovation around free broadband access, they can be disruptive again and take market share.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS BROADBAND (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); BOOKSTORES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BASEBALL (53%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (69%); IN-STORE GAGE MARKETING LLC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (69%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



580 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Follow the Fundamentals

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: Beijing 

 BODY:
 Lou Dobbs is winning. He's not winning personally. He's not going to start winning presidential awards or elite respect. But his message is winning. Month by month the ideas that once prevailed on the angry fringe enter the mainstream and turn into conventional wisdom. 
 Once there was a majority in favor of liberal immigration policies, but apparently that's not true anymore, at least if you judge by campaign rhetoric. Once there was a bipartisan consensus behind free trade, but that's not true anymore, either. Even Republicans, by a two-to-one majority, believe free trade is bad for America, according to a Wall Street Journal/NBC poll. 
 Once upon a time, the fact that hundreds of millions of people around the world are rising out of poverty would have been a source of pride and optimism. But if you listen to the presidential candidates, improvements in the developing world are menacing. Their speeches constitute a symphony of woe about lead-painted toys, manipulated currencies and stolen jobs.
 And if Dobbsianism is winning when times are good, you can imagine how attractive it's going to seem if we enter the serious recession that Larry Summers convincingly and terrifyingly forecasts in yesterday's Financial Times. If the economy dips as seriously as that, the political climate could shift in ugly ways.
 So it's worth pointing out now more than ever that Dobbsianism is fundamentally wrong. It plays on legitimate anxieties, but it rests at heart on a more existential fear -- the fear that America is under assault and is fundamentally fragile. It rests on fears that the America we once knew is bleeding away.
 And that's just not true. In the first place, despite the ups and downs of the business cycle, the United States still possesses the most potent economy on earth. Recently the World Economic Forum and the International Institute for Management Development produced global competitiveness indexes, and once again they both ranked the United States first in the world.
 In the World Economic Forum survey, the U.S. comes in just ahead of Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden and Germany (China is 34th). The U.S. gets poor marks for macroeconomic stability (the long-term federal debt), for its tax structure and for the low savings rate. But it leads the world in a range of categories: higher education and training, labor market flexibility, the ability to attract global talent, the availability of venture capital, the quality of corporate management and the capacity to innovate.
 William W. Lewis of McKinsey surveyed global competitive in dozens of business sectors a few years ago, and concluded, ''The United States is the productivity leader in virtually every industry.''
 Second, America's fundamental economic strength is rooted in the most stable of assets -- its values. The U.S. is still an astonishing assimilation machine. It has successfully absorbed more than 20 million legal immigrants over the past quarter-century, an extraordinary influx of human capital. Americans are remarkably fertile. Birthrates are relatively high, meaning that in 2050, the average American will be under 40, while the average European, Chinese and Japanese will be more than a decade older.
 The American economy benefits from low levels of corruption. American culture still transmits some ineffable spirit of adventure. American students can't compete with, say, Singaporean students on standardized tests, but they are innovative and creative throughout their lives. The U.S. standard of living first surpassed the rest of the world's in about 1740, and despite dozens of cycles of declinist foreboding, the country has resolutely refused to decay.
 Third, not every economic dislocation has been caused by trade and the Chinese. Between 1991 and 2007, the U.S. trade deficit exploded to $818 billion from $31 billion. Yet as Robert Samuelson has pointed out, during that time the U.S. created 28 million jobs and the unemployment rate dipped to 4.6 percent from 6.8 percent.
 That's because, as Robert Lawrence of Harvard and Martin Baily of McKinsey have calculated, 90 percent of manufacturing job losses are due to domestic forces. As companies become more technologically advanced, they shed workers (the Chinese shed 25 million manufacturing jobs between 1994 and 2004).
 Meanwhile, the number of jobs actually lost to outsourcing is small, and recent reports suggest the outsourcing trend is slowing down. They are swamped by the general churn of creative destruction. Every quarter the U.S. loses somewhere around seven million jobs, and creates a bit more than seven million more. That double-edged process is the essence of a dynamic economy. 
 I'm writing this column from Beijing. I can look out the window and see the explosive growth. But as the Chinese will be the first to tell you, their dazzling prosperity is built on fragile foundations. In the United States, the situation is the reverse. We have obvious problems. But the foundations of American prosperity are strong. The U.S. still has much more to gain than to lose from openness, trade and globalization. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); RECESSION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%); LEAD (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (74%); DENMARK (70%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



581 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup to Sell $7.5 Billion Stake to Abu Dhabi

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Citigroup announced last night that it was selling a $7.5 billion stake to a Middle Eastern sovereign fund in the latest bid to shore up its precariously low capital base.
 The fund, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, has agreed to buy a 4.9 percent equity stake in a complex transaction that has been approved by federal regulators. It will have no role in the management or governance of Citigroup, nor any presence on Citigroup's board. 
 Abu Dhabi's 4.9 percent stake means that nearly 10 percent of Citigroup will be controlled by Middle Eastern investors. Prince Walid bin Talal already owns a roughly 5 percent stake after bailing out the company in the early 1990s. 
 ''This investment reflects our confidence in Citi's potential to build shareholder value,'' said A.D.I.A.'s managing director, Sheikh Ahmed bin Zayed al-Nahyan. 
 The investment from Abu Dhabi underscores Citigroup's precarious capital position, and also highlights the growing petrodollar wealth of Mideast countries, which are buying up assets and taking stakes in numerous American companies.
 In addition to bolstering Citigroup's capital base, which has dwindled to unusually low levels after a spate of acquisitions and recent credit market turmoil, the move should ease pressure on Citigroup's dividend. 
 The company's management has committed to maintaining its dividend while significantly bolstering its capital levels by the end of the second quarter of 2008. 
 Citigroup is expected to raise another $4 billion that will be put toward its purchase of a stake in Nikko Cordial of Japan, on top of hundreds of millions that generated by selling portions of its businesses. 
 ''What we are trying to do is show there is a very clear pathway to meet'' the company's capital goals, said a senior Citigroup official involved with the plan. ''This is obviously a meaningful step for us.''
 Citigroup officials said they had briefed the credit rating agencies and won approval from its main regulator, the Federal Reserve Board in New York. It was unclear if other federal regulators had been briefed on the agreement, but executives said they did not expect the deal to be derailed on regulatory or political grounds.
 A spokesman for Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said in an e-mail message that the congressman was ''generally supportive that Citi was able to raise capital and reassure investors.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the Senate Banking and Finance Committees, said in a statement that ''this transaction will bolster Citigroup's capital and competitiveness, and thereby help preserve New York's status as the world's financial center.''
 Citigroup's shares have dropped sharply since October, when billions of dollars in write-downs first started to mount. Citigroup's shares closed down more than 3 percent yesterday, at $30.70, and continued to drop in after-hours trading. Its 52-week high was $57, set in late December 2006.
 Since October, Citigroup has announced another $8 billion to $11 billion charge related to bad subprime mortgage investments, which might wipe out its fourth-quarter profit. And some analysts project that an additional $4 billion charge could be in the offing. 
 The company's struggles raise serious questions about its diversified business model and risk management practices during one of the most turbulent times in its history. There have been bad trading bets at its investment bank, souring mortgage and credit card loans in its consumer division, and bloated costs and a shortage of management talent across the company. 
 Since Charles O. Prince III resigned as chairman and chief executive last month, Citigroup's board has been looking for a new leader. Analysts and investors have renewed their calls to dismantle company, pointing to its recent woes as evidence that it is too big to manage. And new questions -- from troubled off-balance sheet affiliates to its ability to maintain its current dividend -- seem to sprout up each week. 
 Yesterday, Wall Street was speculating that there could be thousands of additional layoffs soon, just seven months after the company announced 17,000 job cuts as part a major revamping effort. Citigroup's shares closed down more than 3 percent yesterday, at $30.70, and continued to drop in after-hours trading.
 The company, however, played down the reports, calling any layoffs part of a planning process to ''be more efficient and cost effective'' in light of economic realities. It declined to provide any specific figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); CREDIT BUREAUS (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



582 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Defense Secretary Urges More Spending for U.S. Diplomacy

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates called Monday for the United States government to commit more money and effort to ''soft power'' tools, including diplomacy, economic assistance and communications, because the military alone cannot defend America's interests around the world.
 In a speech at Kansas State University, the Pentagon chief forcefully advocated a larger budget for the State Department. Mr. Gates noted that military spending -- even without war costs for Iraq and Afghanistan -- totals nearly half a trillion dollars annually, compared with a State Department budget of $36 billion. 
 ''We must focus our energies beyond the guns and steel of the military, beyond just our brave soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen,'' he said. ''We must also focus our energies on the other elements of national power that will be so crucial in the years to come.''
 Mr. Gates, who took over the top Pentagon job last December, said that ''based on my experience serving seven presidents, as a former director of C.I.A. and now as secretary of defense, I am here to make the case for strengthening our capacity to use 'soft power' and for better integrating it with 'hard power.' ''
 One priority is money, Mr. Gates said. He called for ''a dramatic increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national security -- diplomacy, strategic communications, foreign assistance, civic action and economic reconstruction and development.''
 Mr. Gates joked that ''having a sitting secretary of defense travel halfway across the country to make a pitch to increase the budget of other agencies might fit into the category of 'man bites dog' or, for some back in the Pentagon, blasphemy,'' and he acknowledged that ''it is certainly not an easy sell politically.''
 The defense secretary also said the United States government must improve its skills at public diplomacy and public affairs to better describe the nation's strategy and values to a global audience.
 ''We are miserable at communicating to the rest of the world what we are about as a society and a culture, about freedom and democracy, about our policies and our goals,'' he said. ''It is just plain embarrassing that Al Qaeda is better at communicating its message on the Internet than America.''
 Mr. Gates expressed regret over decisions by previous administrations to cut the United States Agency for International Development and to abolish the United States Information Agency and divide its responsibilities among other offices.
 The defense secretary urged the creation of ''a permanent, sizable cadre of immediately deployable experts with disparate skills.'' These people, he said, would be drawn from the civilian world -- with expertise in such areas as agriculture, urban infrastructure and law -- to work alongside the military and help rebuild and stabilize world trouble spots.
 The State Department is working to build such a civilian response corps. At the same time, the State Department has struggled this year to fill its civilian contract positions for provincial reconstruction teams in Iraq and, indeed, to persuade enough Foreign Service officers to volunteer for duty there.
 ''We can expect that asymmetric warfare will be the mainstay of the contemporary battlefield for some time,'' Mr. Gates said. ''These conflicts will be fundamentally political in nature and require the application of all elements of national power. Success will be less a matter of imposing one's will and more a function of shaping behavior of friends, adversaries and, most importantly, the people in between.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, right, with Jon Wefald, Kansas State University's president, after a speech yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



583 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Iraq to Negotiate Pact on Long-Term Relations

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CARA BUCKLEY; Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and Cara Buckley from Baghdad. Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
The White House announced Monday that it had reached a deal with the Iraqi government to negotiate a formal agreement defining long-term relations between the two nations, including the legal status of American military forces remaining in Iraq.
 The ''Declaration of Principles'' signed Monday via video link by President Bush and the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, does not specify the eventual number of American troops nor the length of their deployment. That issue is certain to be central in the 2008 presidential campaign that will be under way as American and Iraqi negotiators work toward a July deadline on a treaty governing relations between the two countries. 
 But senior administration officials stressed the significance of the agreement signed Monday, saying that it was leading to a far more durable political, economic and security relationship than is possible under the current United Nations resolution, which serves as the foundation under international law for the American-led effort in Iraq.
 ''I think it's important to the people of Iraq,'' said Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute, the president's coordinator for Iraq issues. ''It signals a commitment of both their government and the United States to an enduring relationship based on mutual interests. 
 ''The basic message here should be clear: Iraq is increasingly able to stand on its own,'' General Lute said. ''That's very good news, but it won't have to stand alone.''
 General Lute predicted that the agreement to negotiate formal bilateral relations would contribute to regional stability by proving America's long-term commitment not just to Iraq, but also to the broader Persian Gulf area. A recurring message of senior Bush administration officials, intended in large part to deter what they see as Iranian mischief in the region, is to reassure Persian Gulf allies of a continued American presence there.
 As part of the agreement of principles, the government of Iraq specifically pledged to extend the United Nations mandate for one final year, guaranteeing a continued American and allied deployment there through the negotiations. 
 The United Nations mandate legalizing foreign intervention in Iraq differs from the agreements on which the United States usually relies as the legal basis for the presence of its troops in allied countries, like South Korea or Japan. In most cases, these arrangements are detailed in formal treaties -- called status of forces agreements -- with nations where the United States bases troops and conducts exercises.
 American military officers have pressed for such a formal agreement with Iraq because it would spell out specific legal responsibilities and protections for American troops in Iraq. The actions of American troops, and of employees of private companies working under Pentagon and State Department contract, have been a source of growing concern in Iraq. 
 One significant question in agreements of this kind is the extent to which American troops stationed abroad are accountable under local law.
 Asked to describe the future military relationship between the United States and Iraq, General Lute said ''it's too soon to tell'' what shape and size that commitment would take.
 ''But,'' he added, ''you can be sure that that will be a key part of the negotiations that are framed in today's document.''
 While officials routinely focus on the annual deadline for formal review of the United Nations mandate, the government of Iraq retains the right to exercise the powers of a sovereign nation and unilaterally end the mandate at any time, Pentagon and administration officials said.
 In Iraq on Monday, there was little public discussion of the agreement. It is not a popular move politically because many Iraqis view the United Nations mandate as a reminder that they cannot yet control their own destiny and must rely on outsiders.
 In the past, members of the Iraqi Parliament have complained that allowing the continued presence of international forces abrogates the country's sovereignty. While some of the complaints can be labelled political rhetoric, there is also a real underlying resentment that the nation still needs American help.
 At the same time, though, many Iraqis say they do not want the American troops to leave right away because they fear the country will drift into chaos.
 In a statement released after the signing, Prime Minister Maliki praised the agreement and stressed the importance of maintaining a strong relationship between his country and the United States.
 ''It was built by the brave sacrifices made by both peoples for a democratic and free Iraq,'' he said.
 As described in the declaration released by the White House, the United States commits to continued support of Iraq in ''defending its democratic system against internal and external threats,'' as well as ''supporting the efforts of the Republic of Iraq to achieve national reconciliation.''
 The United States also pledged to support Iraq's economic development and to provide financial and technical assistance. Significantly, the document committed the United States to support Iraq in receiving ''preferential trading conditions,'' including joining the World Trade Organization and receiving most-favored-nation trading status with Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute said a deal would lead to more durable United States-Iraq links. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (68%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



584 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Exit, Russian Democracy

DATELINE: For a leader who has everything 

 BODY:
control of the military, the government, the voting process and the media -- President Vladimir Putin of Russia looks increasingly desperate and threatened ahead of parliamentary elections on Sunday. Polls suggest his United Russia party will win the balloting overwhelmingly, giving him leverage to continue wielding power in some form. But his greedy grab for victory while quashing credible political opposition demonstrates that this is no free and fair election and Russia is no democracy. 
 Last weekend, two rallies by an anti-Putin coalition protesting the unfairness of the election were broken up by truncheon-wielding riot police. The former chess champion Garry Kasparov, a coalition leader and potential presidential candidate, was sentenced to five days in jail for organizing one demonstration. Boris Nemtsov, another presidential candidate and a former deputy prime minister, was also detained, as were dozens of other pro-democracy activists.
 No one expected a smooth trajectory from the seven decades of Soviet dictatorship to Jeffersonian democracy, but the years under Mr. Putin have been a whipsaw. Buoyed by high oil revenues and a rising economy, he is credited with restoring national pride and stability. But Mr. Putin has so emasculated the democratic institutions that evolved in the 1990s that it is apparent he has little confidence in his people. The Kremlin controls the political process, deciding who can run for office and who gets access to national television coverage.
 Mr. Putin has accused the United States of persuading international monitors to withdraw from observing Russia's elections and thus undermining them. But it is he who has taken the legitimacy out of the election process. Without changes, that is only going to get worse when Russia holds its 2008 presidential elections.
 Washington's ties with Russia -- bungled by President Bush and given short shrift so far in America's presidential debates -- deserve more attention. The United States, Europe and Japan prematurely brought Russia into the elite group of leading industrialized nations by arguing that it would encourage Moscow on a democratic path. Now they must stand together as democracies and make clear that Russia's reversion to its autocratic past is unacceptable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); RIOTS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); SENTENCING (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



585 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-19 
 Back in Pakistan, Sharif Condemns Musharraf
 Back in Pakistan after an eight-year absence, Nawaz Sharif, the religiously conservative former prime minister, demanded an end to emergency rule and called for the reinstatement of fired supreme court justices.A1
 Progress in Mideast Talks 
 Israeli and Palestinian negotiators made progress toward completing a joint statement for the planned Middle East peace conference in Annapolis, Md.A9
 Protesting the conference, Hamas leaders took a hard line against Israel in Gaza, and right-wing Israelis held a prayer session at the Western Wall. A9
 Putin Says U.S. Is Meddling
 The Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, accused the United States of trying to taint the legitimacy of next week's parliamentary elections. A3
 Long-Term U.S.-Iraqi Deal
 The White House announced a deal to negotiate a formal agreement defining long-term relations between Iraq and the United States, including the status of American military forces.A6
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said the United States needs to commit more money and focus more efforts on diplomacy and economic assistance because the military alone cannot defend America's interests.A6
 Sudan Jails British Teacher
 Sudanese police arrested a British school teacher for insulting Islam after she allowed her 7-year-old pupils to name a class teddy bear Muhammad.A12
 Clashes Continue in Paris
 Youths clashed with heavily armed riot police for the second night in a row in a poor suburb north of Paris. A12
 Farmers Save Crop Variety
 Backyard farmers in Europe have become the guardians of unusual varieties of traditional crops, which are disappearing at the time scientists need their genes to safeguard the food supply from the effects of global warming.A4Protesters Halt Oxford Forum
 Protesters disrupted a forum at Oxford featuring a British author who denies the Holocaust.A19
 NATIONALA20-29 
 In Hospice, Longer Lives
 Mean Money Lost
 Hundreds of hospice providers across the country are facing the catastrophic financial consequence of what would otherwise seem a positive development: their patients are living longer than expected. A1 
 A Plant to Purify Sewage
 The Orange County Water District in California will turn on what industry experts say is the world's largest plant devoted to purifying sewer water to increase drinking water supplies. Many hope it serves as a model for authorities worldwide struggling with severe drought and forecasted water shortages. A29 
 Mississippi Senator to Resign
 Senator Trent Lott's announcement that he would resign in a few weeks added to the growing Republican exodus from Congress, and it may have strengthened his post-Senate job prospects. A20 
 Gore Goes to Oval Office
 In a curious twist, President Bush invited his one-time political rival, Al Gore, to the Oval Office. The occasion was an annual tradition, the presidential photo opportunity with Nobel Prize winners. A26 
 A Troubled Atlanta Hospital
 The politically appointed board of Atlanta's charity hospital, Grady Memorial, effectively voted itself out of business, the first step in at least a short-term escape from the looming bankruptcy that had threatened the region's only top-level trauma center. A20 Capital AIDS Rate Highest
 The District of Columbia has the highest rate of AIDS infection of any city in the country, and the disease is being transmitted to infants, older adults, women and heterosexual men at an epidemic pace, according to a report released by city officials. A20 Kennedy to Sell Memoirs
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the most prominent surviving member of the Kennedy family, has agreed to sell his memoirs for an advance of more than $8 million, people with knowledge of the negotiations say. A25 
 NEW YORK/REGIONC13-14
 Astor's Son and Lawyer Indicted, Reports Say
 Brooke Astor's only son and one of her former lawyers have been indicted on criminal charges stemming from the stewardship of her financial affairs and the handling of her will, according to people who have been briefed on the situation. The exact charges against the two men are not known.A1 
 Can Spitzer Succeed?
 The long and ultimately futile battle over Gov. Eliot Spitzer's plan to grant New York driver's licenses to illegal immigrants has left many pondering: does Mr. Spitzer have the judgment to succeed as governor? In a recent interview, the governor also pondered the question.A1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 Investors Flock to T-Bills
 Concerns that the credit squeeze could push the economy into a recession drove investors to the safety of Treasuries. The 10-year Treasury yield hit its lowest point in more than three years, suggesting that investor confidence continues to weaken. C1 
 A Critical View of Banks
 The head of the German banking association is sharply critical of the excesses that led to the American subprime mortgage mess. But he doesn't let European banks off the hook. C1 
 Citigroup Stake to Abu Dhabi 
 Citigroup said that it was selling a $7.5 billion stake to a Middle Eastern sovereign fund in a bid to shore up its low capital base. The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority has agreed to buy a 4.9 percent equity stake in a transaction that has been approved by federal regulators. C1
 Court Hears 401(k) Case
 A federal appeals court ruled last year that an employee could not sue an employer that had mishandled an individual 401(k) plan. Now the Supreme Court is hearing the appeal, and justices had sharp questions for the defense lawyer. C3 
 Business DigestC2 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DROUGHT (77%); HAMAS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); RELIGION (70%); ARRESTS (69%); CLIMATOLOGY (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); HOSPICE (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); WRITERS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%); TRENT LOTT (58%); AL GORE (57%); ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (92%) MARYLAND USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SUDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



586 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: The U.S.S.R. Is Coming Back (At Least on Clothing Racks)

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Empowered by an oil boom that pushed the country's trade surplus past $94 billion this year, Russia has been flexing its muscles abroad. At home, meanwhile, young and trendy Muscovites are in the throes of nostalgia for the staples of Soviet childhoods, relics of a time when the U.S.S.R. was at the height of superpower status. 
 That may explain why one of the most popular fashion designers this fall is Denis Simachev, who is selling overcoats fastened with hammer-and-sickle buttons, gold jewelry minted to look like Soviet kopecks and shirts festooned with the Soviet coat of arms, complete with embroidered ears of wheat. 
 ''People in their 30s see these kinds of symbols as reminders of happy memories, like going to pioneer camp where they lived together, ate breakfast together and played sports,'' said Mr. Simachev, 33, who wears his hair in a Samurai-style ponytail. He insists he is no Communist -- for one thing, his overcoats sell for about $2,100 and his T-shirts for about $600. His boutique is sandwiched between Hermes and Burberry stores on a pedestrian lane, Stoleshnikov, that is one of the capital's most expensive shopping streets.
 Mr. Simachev first attracted notice with a collection of retro Olympic tracksuits emblazoned with C.C.C.P., the Cyrillic initials for the U.S.S.R., and T-shirts printed with the likeness of President Vladimir V. Putin, which served as a wink at the cult of personality forming around the leader. 
 By tapping into a generation that is experiencing an identity crisis, Mr. Simachev, who is also known here as a D. J., a Ducati motorcycle rider and a snowboarder, has quickly become the epitome of Russian cool for a subset of gilded Moscow youth. They throng the pub underneath his store for lunch and on weekend evenings when it transforms into a nightclub.
 Victoria Tirovskaya, 24, says she wears the designer's clothes because they are chic and a bit audacious. ''I have a classic blouse and shorts from Simachev but I also have a U.S.S.R. sweatshirt,'' Ms. Tirovskaya, an interior designer, said. ''Before Simachev, nobody dared to use the symbol of our country as a fashion icon.''
 The designer's rise as the commissar of Soviet kitsch neatly dovetails with Russia's current embrace of retrograde politics and resurgent nationalism. A billboard just off Red Square advertises the results of the parliamentary elections, scheduled for early December, as if they were a fait accompli: ''Moscow votes for Putin!'' 
 After more than a decade of Westernization, in which international brands have flooded the Russian market and the Russian elite have taken to wearing designers from Valentino to Louis Vuitton, a ''Back to the U.S.S.R.'' movement among consumers seems a logical step, some social observers here say.
 ''At first, the people of my generation wanted to try those things that our parents could not, but now that we have seen everywhere, we are coming back to our roots,'' said Evelina Khromtchenko, the editor in chief of the Russian edition of L'Officiel, a French fashion magazine. 
 Mr. Simachev has developed a swaggering fashion lexicon typified in his men's wear by fur hats, fur boots, jackets with muscular shoulders and slim-hipped, low-slung trousers. ''We are from Russia, from the former Soviet Union,'' he said. ''It's what I know about, it's what inspires me, and now, after years of Russians trying to live a Western lifestyle and forget they are Russian, other people are getting it.''
 Unlike the Americana of Ralph Lauren, with his easeful style informed by the Ivy League, Mr. Simachev's evocation of motherland style often provocatively incorporates jingoistic elements. In the past four years, he has designed collections inspired by the war in Chechnya, the boycotted 1980 Moscow Olympics, the Soviet Navy and, this season, Moscow criminal gangs of the 1990s.
 Critics have interpreted his collections as endorsements of, or protests against, past and current regimes. But Mr. Simachev described himself as apolitical. ''I am a mirror for what is going on around me,'' he said.
 He added: ''Nobody wants to go back to Communism. But it had certain attributes and symbols which for younger people are not associated with the regime, but with our own personal memories.''
 Russians more steeped in Soviet history say they are appalled at the merchandising of the symbols of totalitarianism. ''Personally, I would never wear something by Denis Simachev because, for me, those symbols mean Stalinist terror, Communism, a K.G.B. spy system and the cold war,'' said Alexandre Vassiliev, a fashion historian who has published 14 books here. ''I disapprove completely.''
 The designer's fans say his motives are purely commercial. ''Why did Andy Warhol paint Mao Zedong or Lenin? Because they are easily recognizable symbols,'' said Nicolas Iljine, who specializes in Russian-American cultural exchange for the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. ''This is all pop nostalgia in a light-handed way. It doesn't have deeper meaning.''
 Mr. Simachev's fashions are reminiscent of the tongue-in-cheek use of Mao references by the Hong Kong retailer David Tang, who sold his versions of retro Communist kitsch in the late '90s, just as China was embracing the global capitalist economy. 
 For now, the Simachev label appears to be attracting more attention than revenue. With Russians earning an average of about $550 a month, few can afford Mr. Simachev's wares. The designer's clothes sell at about 30 multibrand boutiques in Russia and about 15 stores abroad, said Anna Dyulgerova, the development director of the brand. 
 The investors behind the label are two Moscow businessmen, Vadim and Vyacheslav Aminov, who declined to reveal annual sales or the size of their share in the company. Vadim Aminov, 38, said the two hope to make Simachev the first Russian brand to win worldwide recognition. Mr. Simachev already shows his men's wear collections on the runways of Milan. His Web site, www.denissimachev.ru, is in English. 
 Vyacheslav Aminov, 48, said the brand was famous enough that it attracted imitators. ''When I was on the beach in Sardinia, I saw hawkers selling fake Simachev T-shirts,'' he said. ''I am sure that Simachev is the only Russian designer who has knockoffs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: T-shirts feature President Vladimir V. Putin's likeness (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ) (pg. A1)
 Denis Simachev's rise as the commissar of Soviet kitsch neatly dovetails with Russia's current embrace of retrograde politics (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLEG NIKISHIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); FASHION DESIGN (76%); RETAILERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); POLITICS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); SNOWBOARDING (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (60%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (60%); LVMH (BIT) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (60%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (60%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



587 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Behind The Curtain

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
A friend of mine, talking about the Democratic presidential candidates, tossed out a wonderful mixed metaphor: ''This is awfully weak tea to have to hang your hat on.''
 The notion that Bush & Co. had fouled things up so badly for Republicans that just about any Democrat could romp to victory in 2008 was never realistic. What's interesting now, with the first contests just weeks away, is the extent to which Democratic voters are worried about the possibility that none of their candidates have the stuff to take the White House.
 This election, the most important in decades, cries out for strong leadership. The electorate is upset, anxious and hungry for change. But ''weak tea'' is as good a term as any to describe what the Democrats are offering. 
 Hillary Clinton is the cautious, rigidly programmed candidate who, in the view of most voters, will say whatever the moment demands. Spontaneous she ain't. You can just picture her cross-examining advisers and prowling through polling data to determine whether she's for or against driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants.
 Barack Obama has the incandescent smile, and the personality to go with it. Oprah loves him, and a lot of campuses are wild for him. But you still wonder if there's any there there.
 His is the make-nice candidacy, no sharp edges. But it's one thing to offer yourself as the agent of change, and quite another to answer the obvious question, ''Change to what?'' 
 John Edwards has been the most forceful of the so-called top-tier candidates. But his plan from the beginning was to move to the left of Senator Clinton, never expecting to find Senator Obama happily patrolling that progressive, antiwar region.
 Mr. Obama had barely stenciled his name on his Senate office door before grabbing his hat and announcing he was running for president. That was faster than even Mr. Edwards's first, lightning-quick decision to seek the highest office in the land.
 The problem for voters is that very little leadership has emerged from the many months of frenetic Democratic fund-raising and politicking. 
 For all the noise and incessant posturing, we still don't have a clear sense of where Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama or any of the others would take the country.
 Bush-bashing is not enough. Unless one of the Democratic candidates finds the courage to step up and offer a vision of an American future so compelling that voters head to the polls with a sense of excitement and great expectation, the Republican Party could once again capture the White House (despite its awful performance over the past eight years) with its patented mixture of snake oil and demagoguery.
 The G.O.P. game plan is already being pieced together. The White House hopes to inoculate Republican candidates on the Iraq war issue by bringing home a significant number of combat troops in the middle of the general election. And the demagogic issue of choice for 2008 is immigration.
 The Willie Horton ugliness of 1988 will be like nothing compared with the concerted attack to be unleashed by the G.O.P. on illegal immigrants next year.
 The Democrats will have to figure out a way to counter that with an appeal to the better angels of our nature, and that will require courage. 
 The need to offer an honest vision that is almost electric in its intensity is especially important for Senators Clinton and Obama. Both have to rally enough voters to overcome deep wells of prejudice in this society. That can't be done by referencing a resume, or in a nine-second response to a question from Wolf Blitzer.
 The American public, tired of war and economically insecure, longs for a leader who will tell the truth and offer a way out of the current morass. 
 A Democrat can win with a realistic plan for exiting Iraq and, more important, a full-blown economic strategy that addresses the growing anxiety over the fading American dream.
 This debilitating anxiety is fed by an uncertain job market; by the housing crisis and the humongous debt that is smothering the middle class; by the long-term erosion of health and pension benefits; by the increasing cost of higher education; and so forth.
 It is this spreading anxiety that makes it so easy for the demagogues to gin up the rage against foreigners. 
 A Democrat who makes a believable case that these problems can be dealt with effectively -- and who asks the public to roll up its sleeves and join in such an effort -- can win.
 But that's not what we're getting. Not so far. And maybe it's not necessary. Maybe the economy will be so bad next year that a Democrat will win in any event. But that's not the kind of tea you want to hang your hat on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); DRIVERS LICENSES (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



588 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: A Banker In Germany Says Trouble Is Not Over

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Klaus-Peter Muller spent the better part of a decade working in the New York branch of Commerzbank, the German bank he now heads as chief executive. His daughter was born in Manhattan, and he has kept close ties to the United States.
 But Mr. Muller is unsparing in his criticism of American mortgage-market excess, which has mutated into a trans-Atlantic financial crisis, nearly ruined two German banks and, he predicts, will wreak more havoc in the investment portfolios of other European banks. 
 Nearly five months after the mortgage mess spilled into Europe, Mr. Muller, 63, and president of the German banking association, said the full extent of the damage was still unclear. While he does not foresee a new land mine in Germany, he expects more bad news from banks that have not yet acknowledged owning a slice of American-style risk. 
 Referring to television commercials in the United States that promised loans with no proof of income, Mr. Muller said, ''I do not believe you should lend money to people whose income you have not properly checked.''
 Mr. Muller is similarly unsparing about German banks, including his own, which invested in securities backed by subprime mortgages.
 ''You need to be straight with yourself,'' he said Monday in an interview in his office at the top of the Commerzbank tower here. ''Nobody was forced, to the best of my knowledge, to buy U.S. subprime products.''
 Bankers, Mr. Muller said, did not adequately understand these investments and relied too heavily on high-grade credit ratings from agencies that helped put together the products, then rated them. This ignorance of the risks extended to the top echelons of the banks.
 ''Did I know in March of '04 that there was a U.S. subprime market'' that was going to face serious problems in the next few years? he asked. ''No, I didn't have the slightest idea. I was a happy man then.''
 Mr. Muller is one of a small circle of European bankers who are now speaking out about the subprime fiasco.
 He confesses to frustration: Although European banks, as a whole, do not appear to have been as hard hit as American ones; the assumption among some in the United States is that Europeans ended up holding many of these investments. This was reinforced by the fact that the first banks to get into trouble were two midsize German banks: IKB Deutsche Industriebank and Sachsen LB.
 Mr. Muller contends it is primarily an American malady. ''Some people in the U.S. market thought this was a European story,'' he said. ''But all the major numbers we've seen are U.S.-denominated.''
 Commerzbank has not been invited to take part in the fund of at least $75 billion that is being cobbled together by leading American banks to stabilize the credit markets, Mr. Muller said. And given his bank's relatively modest role in the credit crisis, he sees little reason that it should.
 Late in July, Commerzbank said it had 1.2 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of exposure to subprime markets. It wrote down the value of its portfolio by 337 million euros ($501 million). The losses were incurred by its New York office and the New York office of its real estate arm, Eurohypo.
 Commerzbank still has a team of 30 to 40 people searching through its books. It is painstaking work, involving tricky calculations as to the likelihood that mortgages will default. The process will be finished by the end of the year, allowing the bank to make a full accounting in its annual report.
 ''I'm personally waiting for the numbers, as of the year-end,'' Mr. Muller said. ''By then, everyone will put their cards on the table, so that you know who is positioned in what situation.''
 Indeed, Mr. Muller said the trickle of information from the banks had compounded the recent jitters in the market. Commerzbank reported its exposure early, he said, in part to prod other banks to disclose their positions. 
 But few followed suit, apparently believing that they could ride it out. ''One of the miseries of the whole story is that we sliced the news on this topic like a salami sausage,'' he said. ''The public kept on receiving bad news, which was not a very professional way of handling it.''
 To Mr. Muller, however, post-mortems are less important than drawing lessons for the next time.
 The main lesson, he said, is that banks should not substitute the judgment of the ratings agencies for that of their own bankers when it comes to assessing the risk of an investment vehicle.
 Mr. Muller does not yearn for a European ratings agency to counter the influence of Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service. But he said the agencies should no longer help banks put together packages of securities, and then rate those investments.
 Regulation and supervision is a thornier issue. In California, Mr. Muller argued, mortgage brokers are barely supervised. But as a European, he said he did not feel comfortable calling on the United States Congress to impose regulations on the consumer finance industry.
 ''These are questions that have to be asked and answered in the United States,'' he said.
 In Europe, a soon-to-be-adopted banking accord will limit the assets that banks can keep off their balance sheets, he said. Had this been in place earlier, a bank like IKB would not have been able to use off-balance sheet assets so aggressively, storing up problems for later.
 Beyond that, banks need to think about what prompted their move into subprime-mortgage investments, he said. In most cases, banks sought out the sparkling returns of these riskier investments because they could not find similar returns in investments at home.
 ''Why are the Russians not in it? Why are the Spanish not in it?'' Mr. Muller asked. ''If you have domestic business with spreads higher than U.S. subprime, then why should you do it?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Commerzbank's chief, Klaus-Peter Muller, said bankers did not understand mortgage securities and relied too much on ratings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLF OESER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); IKB DEUTSCHE INDUSTRIEBANK AG (84%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (92%); CBK (FRA) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: KLAUS-PETER MUELLER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



589 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Despite Spitzer, Commuters Will Pay More

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer's decision to freeze the base subway fare at $2 will not take the sting out of commuting costs for everyone: Yesterday, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said commuter rail tickets and the city's bridge and tunnel tolls will jump an average of 3.85 percent.
 And unlimited ride MetroCards and bonus pay-per-ride MetroCards possibly face even steeper increases. 
 ''At the most basic arithmetic level, obviously if you hold constant one portion of your revenues, then by definition other revenues will have to be raised to make up that difference,'' said the authority's chief financial officer, Gary J. Dellaverson, referring to bus and subway fares. 
 Mr. Dellaverson, speaking at a meeting of the finance committee of the authority's board, said it would take at least a week to come up with a specific proposal for how much all types of fares and tolls would rise. The authority's board is scheduled to vote on the increases on Dec. 19. If they are approved, they will take effect early next year.
 The governor, whose popularity in polls has fallen significantly in recent months, announced with fanfare last week that he would freeze the basic fare, to ease the burdens on already economically squeezed New Yorkers.
 However, the politics of fare increases can be tricky, especially when not everyone is shouldering the same burden. Commuters who find their costs going up may feel more resentment than gratitude toward Mr. Spitzer, whom they may now identify with the fare hike more closely than before.
 ''You have a can of worms being opened here, that is who gets protected and who gets hit,'' said Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic State Assembly member from Westchester County. Mr. Brodsky has called for the state to increase its financing of the authority to prevent the fare increase altogether.
 As it has mulled its plans, the transportation authority has insisted that each separate branch of the transportation network -- commuter rail, bridges and tunnels and subway and bus service -- generate the same overall increase in revenues. That means each group of riders, essentially, must pay 3.85 percent more, on average.
 Because only about 14 percent of bus and subway rides are paid for with the base $2 fare, the biggest increases may fall on a majority of customers who buy unlimited weekly or monthly MetroCards or the pay-per-ride bonus cards.
 Mr. Dellaverson said there would most likely be a range of increases for different types of tickets on the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad. But based on the authority's earlier proposals, it appears likely that most suburban commuters could expect to see their costs going up at close to the 3.85 percent target. 
 Although officials at the authority did not predict how the new directive would affect tolls, a 3.85 percent increase applied to tolls would mean that drivers who use E-ZPass could expect the one-way toll at most crossings controlled by the authority to increase to $4.15, from $4. Drivers without E-ZPass, who currently pay $4.50 at most crossings, would probably see a higher percentage increase. About three-quarters of drivers who use the authority's crossings, which include the Midtown Tunnel and the Triborough Bridge, use E-ZPass.
 The authority's original proposal, made in July, called for a 6.5 percent overall increase in fares and tolls. The authority said then that it expected to run a sizable budget surplus this year but it needed the increase to overcome large deficits projected for 2009.
 But last week, Gov. Spitzer said that new forecasts showed that improved revenues and lower expenses would result in an additional surplus of $220 million. He said that fares and tolls would still need to go up, but that they would not have to rise as steeply. In addition, he said the base subway and bus fare would remain unchanged. 
 Unlimited ride MetroCards account for close to half of all subway and bus trips. About 36 percent of trips are made on pay-per-ride MetroCards that carry a 20 percent bonus, giving riders six rides for the price of five. Mr. Dellaverson said that officials were considering changes to the bonus as part of the new fare package. 
 Gene Russianoff, the staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a rider advocacy group, said that reducing the bonus discount would hurt lower-income riders. He said that for many poor riders, the $10 pay-per-ride MetroCard, which delivers six rides for the price of five, is the most economical way to receive a transit discount. 
 ''Many of those people are really struggling to cobble together the 10 bucks,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SUBURBS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007



590 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Memo Pad

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
EVERYBODY INTO THE ACT Another domestic carrier, US Airways, plans to start serving Heathrow Airport in London in late March, with flights from its hub in Philadelphia. A new Open Skies agreement between the United States and the European Union is opening Heathrow to more United States carriers. Continental Airlines recently said that starting in March it would fly into Heathrow. The airport had previously restricted landing rights to only two United States carriers, American and United. 
 BOOS FOR HEATHROW United States carriers may be clamoring to expand service to Heathrow Airport because of its connections for world air traffic, but nobody really likes the place, including aviation industry insiders. The London-based air transport consultant Ascend asked 500 industry analysts, executives, bankers and others to evaluate 10 of the world's major airports, and Heathrow landed last in overall airport satisfaction. The others, in ascending order after Heathrow: Los Angeles International; Kennedy International; Gatwick in London; Charles de Gaulle in Paris; Frankfurt Airport; Amsterdam Airport Schiphol; Dubai International, Hong Kong International and Singapore Changi Airport.
A VOTE FOR THE Q400Bombardier Aerospace said that Qantas Airways ordered 12 Q400 turboprop aircraft for its regional airline service. The order comes after a spate of problems involving landing gear collapses on Q400s flown by Scandinavian Airlines. The Q400, which can seat up to 80 passengers, is a workhorse for Horizon Air, the Alaska Airlines subsidiary, which tested its Q400 fleet after the SAS incidents and found no problems. Horizon operates 33 Q400s as well as 18 Q200s, an earlier 37-seat model in Bombardier's so-called Dash-8 turboprop line.
 CARLSON PLANTS FLAG IN ASIA Carlson Hotels says it will open a Park Plaza hotel in Bangkok next month, the first in a planned major expansion of Carlson hotels throughout Asia. Besides the midscale Park Plaza, which caters to business travelers, the hotel brands of the Minneapolis-based Carlson include the upscale Regent Hotels, the full-service Radisson Hotels, the midscale Country Inns & Suites and the economy-scale Park Inn. 
 UNITED'S LONG-HAUL CABINS United Airlines introduced its new international cabins with a flight last week from Washington Dulles to Frankfurt. Among the improvements in United's long-haul international wide-body fleet are its first 180-degree lie-flat seats in business class, and a selection of 30 on-demand movies on the personal monitors in first- and business-class seats. 
 ET CETERA International traffic in first- and business-class cabins increased 6.8 percent in September, excluding international routes within Europe, the International Air Transport Association says ... Crowne Plaza Hotels is installing new ergonomic chairs in the business meetings and conference rooms in all its properties in North America after a survey showed that more than half of business travelers attending meetings complained about seats with bad back and neck supports. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (63%); OFFICE DESIGN (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); BOMBARDIER INC (55%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (55%); CARLSON HOTELS WORLDWIDE (53%); COUNTRY INNS & SUITES (52%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); BBD.A (TSX) (55%); QAN (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (52%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (52%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



591 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Extra Time; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Born in Brazil, But Representing Someone Else

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
The influx of Brazilian-born soccer players in domestic leagues around the world could endanger the geographic integrity of future international tournaments, said Joseph S. Blatter, the president of FIFA. More than 1,000 players who have left Brazil are playing this year for clubs in far-flung places like Moldova, Russia and Japan. 
 An increasing number of those players, who might not be good enough to play for Brazil, are setting down roots in those countries and joining their adopted national teams.
''If we don't take care about the invaders from Brazil, not only toward Europe but toward Asia and Africa, then the next World Cups in 2014 and 2018 out of the 32 teams -- you will still have national teams -- but we will have 16 full of Brazilian players,'' Blatter said Sunday in South Africa before the preliminary draw for the World Cup. ''It is a danger, a real, real danger.'' 
 Brazil has more than 60 million registered players. Disparate national laws that govern naturalization have often been bent to enable expatriate Brazilians to play in their adopted lands through marriage or a naturalization process that can take as little as two years. 
 For example, Deco was born in Brazil but is a naturalized citizen of Portugal and a key player on its national team; Antonio Naelson, little-known at home, was granted Mexican citizenship and was on the team's roster for the 2006 World Cup; Alessandro Santos plays internationally for Japan; Jose Clayton plays for Tunisia; and Eduardo da Silva, who moved to Croatia when he was 15, became a citizen in 2002.
 If the United States defeats either Barbados or Dominica in the first round of World Cup qualifying next June, it will advance to a semifinal group that is likely to include Cuba. The Americans have a 5-1-1 record against Cuba, but have never played there and would be expected to make the trip in the six-nation round-robin regardless of the United States government's economic embargo that bars most travel to the Communist nation.
 ''We haven't played Cuba away,'' Sunil Gulati, the president of the American federation, said Sunday. ''That would pose some new challenges. But they are soccer challenges, and we'll deal with all those other issues at the time.''
 Major League Soccer
 After Houston won its second straight M.L.S. Cup, most reports mentioned that the club, which moved from San Jose, Calif., at the start of the 2006 season, had won four league championships (2001, '03, '06 and '07) this decade. Not so fast.
 According to M.L.S., the expansion San Jose Earthquakes, which will begin play next season as the third incarnation of a team with that nickname (the original Earthquakes were part of the North American Soccer League from 1974-84), will reclaim the club history. In the league's eyes, the Dynamo has only two years of history, even though several of its players (Dwayne De Rosario, Eddie Robinson, Brian Mullen, Craig Waibel, Richard Mulrooney and Pat Onstad played in both the 2003 and 2007 title games) are part of the history of both clubs. So far, only one player, defender Ryan Cochrane, will return to San Jose from Houston. He played for the Earthquakes in 2004-5, went to Houston with the club and was picked in last week's expansion draft by San Jose.
 The N.F.L. made the same decision to leave the Cleveland Browns' storied history in Ohio when the owner Art Modell moved the team to Baltimore after the 1995 season and renamed it the Ravens. In 1999, when the Browns were reborn, the Ravens had five players (Rob Burnett, Stevon Moore, Matt Stover, Bennie Thompson and Larry Webster) who still had entries in the media guide of the new Browns, according to the N.F.L.
 A survey of 1,000 soccer fans in the United States between the ages of 13 and 24 asked, ''How interested are you in Major League Soccer?'' and found that more than 40 percent of the respondents showed at least some level of interest in M.L.S. The survey was conducted by the European Football Group, an affiliate company of EFG Research/MV2 Group, a market research and polling company. According to the poll, 43 percent of female fans and 41 percent of male fans surveyed are interested, while 45 percent of female fans and 35 percent of male fans are very interested in M.L.S. Only 10 percent of the male sample and 4 percent of the female sample said they were not interested at all.
 The league's board of governors has proposed raising each club's salary budget to $2.3 million, an increase of 4 percent, according to SportsBusiness Journal. 
 Germany
 There have been few tangible results from the strategic partnership between the Bundesliga and Major League Soccer, which was announced last spring. But Christian Seifert, the chief executive of the German league, who was in Washington for the M.L.S. Cup, said that was about to change.
 ''Right now we have 12 teams that do preseason training in Spain, which is not a big help for us because we see the U.S. as one of our strategic markets with Russia, China and India,'' Seifert said in an interview. ''We would like to send one or two teams to the U.S. in our preseason to a good facility to play games against U.S. clubs and against each other.''
 The Bundesliga season begins in early August. Seifert also said he would like to see a German club play in the M.L.S. All-Star Game, which featured Glasgow Celtic and Chelsea the past two years.
 ''We are not about sending one club to the U.S. to get a check,'' Seifert said. ''We want to put out our message that the Bundesliga is entertaining and exciting, we do our own TV production in high-definition, and we want to share our expertise.''
 Notes
 South Africa, the host of the 2010 World Cup, qualifies automatically for the tournament, but will still have to compete in a qualifying group (with Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Equatorial Guinea) because the games count toward qualification for the 2010 African Nations Cup.
 Tony Henry's mangled rendition of the national anthem of Croatia before last week's 2008 European Championship qualifying game against England at Wembley Stadium has been given credit for inspiring the Croatian players to a victory that eliminated England. 
 During ABC/ESPN's halftime show of last Saturday's Kansas-Missouri college football game, the former coach Lou Holtz was asked which of the many vacant coaching jobs he found most appealing. ''England,'' Holtz said, with a laugh.
 Name of the week: The 20-year-old striker Robert Acquafresca (Freshwater) scored Cagliari's only goal in a 2-1 loss to A.C. Milan on Sunday.
 In Mexico, Santos Laguna, Atlante, U.N.A.M. and Chivas Guadalajara advanced to the semifinals of the Apertura (opening) tournament. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan Cochrane, right, is returning to San Jose after two seasons in Houston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MITCHELL LAYTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); NATURALIZATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CROATIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); BARBADOS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



592 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Stock Slump Reaches a Milestone; Citigroup Sells a Stake

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Concerns that problems in the credit market could push the economy into a recession drove investors to the safety of Treasuries yesterday and led to a sell-off of stocks. 
 In a significant move, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, hit its lowest point in more than three years, suggesting a weakening in investor confidence from levels that were already low. 
 All three major stock indexes have now dropped more than 10 percent from their highs, the generally accepted definition of a market correction. 
 Market specialists say investors are increasingly concerned that they still do not know how bad the fallout in the mortgage market will be, nearly a year after problems surfaced.
 ''The uncertainty is in the hidden land mines, if you will,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.
 For the broader economy, the danger from the rush into Treasuries is that it will further limit the availability of credit to consumers and businesses, possibly slowing the economy even more. Banks and investors have already become more strict about lending to customers with blemished credit histories and are charging much higher rates to businesses with ratings below investment grade.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.841 percent yesterday, from 4.001 percent late Friday and 4.403 a month ago. It was the biggest one-day drop in the yield in more than three years. 
 With financial stocks leading the way, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.3 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 237.44 points, or 1.8 percent, to 12,743.44. 
 Both indexes are down more than 10 percent from record closes on Oct. 9. It is the first time they have fallen that much since the bear market ended in October 2002. The Nasdaq composite index was off 2.1 percent, putting it more than 11 percent below its peak on Oct. 31. Much of yesterday's decline came in the last hour and a half.
 Stock markets were also down in Europe and Latin America, with Mexican and Brazilian indexes falling about 3 percent. Stocks opened sharply lower in Japan this morning.
 Earlier in the day, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York tried to ease some anxiety by saying that it would offer a longer term for financing in the money market than it does usually. It will start with $8 billion tomorrow and the Fed said it would lend as much as is needed to keep overnight bank lending rates at its target of 4.5 percent. The bank also increased the amount of money securities dealers could borrow.
 American and European central bankers have been trying to keep capital flowing smoothly in the main arteries of the world's financial system. But they have been stymied by the uncertainty surrounding the quality of the investments that banks and brokerage firms created, sold and held during the credit boom. 
 Each time investors think that policy makers have effectively come to the rescue, another large institution reveals a portfolio tainted with shaky bonds.
 ''What they have done so far isn't really fixing the problem; it isn't easing credit,'' Douglas Peta, chief market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, an investment firm in New York, said of the Fed and other central banks.
 Yesterday, investors appeared to be focused on news that Citigroup, the world's largest bank, is considering more layoffs. Citigroup shares fell 3.2 percent, to $30.70; it is down nearly 45 percent for the year. After hours, Citigroup shares dropped another 2.9 percent to $29.80. Another large bank, HSBC, said it would help rescue two investment vehicles by taking $45 billion in assets onto its balance sheet to avoid their being sold at current prices.
 Banks have already written off about $50 billion in bonds tied to home loans, and some economists estimate the total losses could be $400 billion.
 While the Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark interest rate twice in recent months, by 0.75 percentage point, the actions have not helped lower the cost of borrowing for most banks and financial institutions. 
 Policy makers meet again on Dec. 11, but they have signaled in several public appearances that they do not see a need to cut interest rates further. 
 One indication that the Fed's rate cuts are not easing the flow of capital can be seen in the premium that investors are demanding to hold risky assets. High-yield debt is fetching a yield of 10.46 percent, up from 8.91 percent at the start of October. In other risky assets like bonds tied to subprime mortgages there is little to no trading going on. 
 ''There is so much uncertainty and almost paranoia among certain market participants that market moves tend to be manic at times,'' said Derrick Wulf, a portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm based in Burlington, Vt. ''Today we saw credit spreads widen across asset classes.''
 Shares of finance companies and discretionary consumer products have taken the biggest beatings recently. But other sectors like technology where companies, especially semiconductor makers, have reported slowing growth have also started to slip. (Technology shares remain up for the year, whereas the overall S.& P. 500 is down 0.8 percent.)
 ''Until someone can quantify how bad the problem is, there will be a fear factor,'' said Scott Black, president of Delphi Investments, an investment firm in Boston. ''And nobody wants to own financial stocks.'' 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS Chart details line graph for S.& P. 500
DOW INDUSTRIALS
and 10-YEAR TREASURY for October and November.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart shows line graph
3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)Chart shows line graph
Dow Corrections: Falls in the Dow industrials of at least 10 percent from a record high since World War II. Some corrections ended immediately, while others lengthened into prolonged bear markets.
Dow Corrections Falls in the Dow industrials of at least 10 percent from a record high since World War II. Some corrections ended immediately, while others lengthened into prolonged bear markets.
 The Favorites: Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. Chart shows top stocks. (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



593 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Fund in Abu Dhabi To Pay $7.5 Billion For 4.9% of Bank

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Citigroup announced last night that it was selling a $7.5 billion stake to a Middle Eastern sovereign fund in the latest bid to shore up its balance sheet.
 The fund, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, has agreed to buy a 4.9 percent equity stake in a complex transaction that has been approved by federal regulators. It will have no role in the management or governance of Citigroup, nor any presence on Citigroup's board.
Abu Dhabi's 4.9 percent stake will make it Citigroup's single largest shareholder, overtaking Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia. He has owned close to a 5 percent stake since the early 1990s, when he made a similar investment to bail out the company. Together, their holdings will mean that nearly 10 percent of the Citigroup will be owned by Middle Eastern investors.
 ''This investment reflects our confidence in Citi's potential to build shareholder value,'' said A.D.I.A.'s managing director, Sheikh Ahmed bin Zayed al-Nahyan. 
 The investment from Abu Dhabi underscores Citigroup's precarious capital position, and also highlights the growing petrodollar wealth of Mideast countries, which are buying up assets and taking stakes in numerous American companies.
 In addition to bolstering Citigroup's capital base, which has dwindled to unusually low levels after a spate of acquisitions and recent credit market turmoil, the move should ease pressure on Citigroup's dividend. 
 The company's management has committed to maintaining its dividend while significantly bolstering its capital levels by the end of the second quarter of 2008. 
 Citigroup is expected to raise another $4 billion that will be put toward its purchase of a stake in Nikko Cordial of Japan, on top of hundreds of millions of dollars that have been generated by selling portions of its businesses. 
 ''What we are trying to do is show there is a very clear pathway to meet'' the company's capital goals, said a senior Citigroup official involved with the plan. ''This is obviously a meaningful step for us.''
 A.D.I.A. will receive convertible stock in Citigroup, with an 11 percent yield, that must be converted into common stock at a price of $31.83 to $37.24 a share from March 2010 to September 2011. The investment is expected to close within the next several days. 
 Citigroup officials said they had briefed the credit rating agencies and won approval from its main regulator, the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. It is unclear if other federal regulators were briefed on the agreement, but executives said they did not expect the deal to be derailed on regulatory or political grounds.
 Last year, the proposed sale of some American ports to a Dubai firm set off a firestorm of questions in Congress about national security; an alternative buyer was ultimately found. 
 But in an e-mail message yesterday, a spokesman for Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said that the congressman was ''generally supportive that Citi was able to raise capital and reassure investors.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the Senate Banking and Finance Committees, said in a statement that ''this transaction will bolster Citigroup's capital and competitiveness, and thereby help preserve New York's status as the world's financial center.''
 So-called sovereign wealth funds in the Middle East have been on a shopping spree in recent months, taking advantage of energy dollars at a time when the American dollar has fallen sharply.
 Earlier this week, Dubai International Capital, a private equity company owned by the ruler of Dubai, bought a minority stake in Sony. Borse Dubai, the government-controlled exchange, agreed to take a 19.9 percent stake in the Nasdaq and to buy Nasdaq's 28 percent stake in the London Stock Exchange.
 The Abu Dhabi government owns a 7.5 percent stake in the Carlyle Group, and Istithmar, an arm of the Dubai government, bought one of fashion's crown jewels: Barneys New York. 
 China has also used its growing supply of cash for acquisitions, buying almost 10 percent of Blackstone Group before its initial public offering. Citic Securities, China's largest investment bank, formed a joint venture and invested $1 billion in Bear Stearns.
 The Citigroup deal came together over the Thanksgiving holiday week after a marathon series of phone calls and an 11th-hour trip by Robert E. Rubin, Citigroup's chairman, to Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates and the richest city in the world, according to people briefed on the negotiations.
 The transaction was set up by Michael S. Klein, the co-head of Citigroup's investment bank, who has deep relationships in the Middle East; he flies to Riyadh frequently to meet with Prince Walid, these people said. 
 The Abu Dhabi group had recently been looking for potentially undervalued banks in which to make a big investment. But when the Citigroup opportunity arose, they dropped everything else to focus on it, these people said. 
 Mr. Rubin was particularly keen to strike a deal with the Abu Dhabi fund because it is one of only a handful of investors that could make such a large investment on its own, these people said, limiting the potential for leaks compared with having to form a consortium of investors. Abu Dhabi was also sophisticated enough to be able to move quickly. 
 The transaction, nearly three times larger than any recent deal, was structured to recognize substantial upside to the Abu Dhabi investment group and to prevent the stakes of Citigroup's existing shareholders from being significantly diluted, according to a person briefed on the transaction. Still, the 11 percent coupon suggests the bank is paying a high price for funding. 
 ''There have been other investors that have approached'' Citigroup, this person added. ''The reason it didn't leak is that it was a one-investor conversation.''
 Citigroup's shares have dropped sharply since October, when billions of dollars in write-downs first started to mount. Citigroup's shares closed down more than 3 percent yesterday, at $30.70, and continued to drop in after-hours trading. Its 52-week high was $57, set in late December 2006.
 And since Charles O. Prince III resigned as chairman and chief executive last month, Citigroup's board has been looking for a new leader.
 The company's struggles raise serious questions about its diversified business model and risk- management practices during one of the most turbulent times in its history. It has already announced $10 billion to $13 billion in charges related to bad subprime mortgage investments, which might wipe out its fourth-quarter profit. And some analysts project that an additional $4 billion charge could be in the offing.
 There have been bad trading bets at its investment bank, souring mortgage and credit card loans in its consumer division, and bloated costs and a shortage of management talent across the company. 
 Analysts and investors have renewed their calls to dismantle the company, pointing to its recent woes as evidence that it is too big to manage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009



594 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3216 words

HEADLINE: Outbreak!

BYLINE: CATHERINE HUTCHINGS and BRIDGET ANDERSON


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students reflect on and research drug-resistant bacteria and the use of antibiotics, then use their research to make board games that focus on the microscopic interactions among bacteria, antibodies, antibiotics and the cells of the immune system. 

 BODY:
Overview: In this lesson, students reflect on and research drug-resistant bacteria and the use of antibiotics. They then use their research to make board games that focus on the microscopic interactions among bacteria, antibodies, antibiotics and the cells of the immune system.
Author(s):
Catherine Hutchings, The New York Times Learning Network
Bridget Anderson, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Reflect on their previous knowledge about bacteria, drug resistance and antibiotics.
2. Learn about historical and current thinking regarding bacteria by reading and discussing the article "Separating Friend From Foe Among the Body's Invaders."
3. Research and develop a board game focusing on drug-resistant bacteria and antibiotics.
4. Complete a part of the board game to be compiled and played in a future class.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils/markers
-classroom board
-student journals
-copies of the article "Separating Friend From Foe Among the Body's Invaders," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20071127tuesday.html (one per student)
-resources for researching antibiotic resistance, including the microscopic interactions between bacteria, antibodies, antibiotics and the cells of the immune system.
-poster board, game pieces, dice, index cards and other materials to create games (per group)
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: Before class, write the following prompt on the board: "What are bacteria? What have you heard about drug-resistant bacteria, like MRSA (commonly called "staph")? How and when should antibiotics be used?" Also, draw a three-column chart with the headings "Bacteria," "Drug-resistant Bacteria" and "Use of Antibiotics."
Instruct students to read and discuss these questions in pairs as they enter class. After a short period of discussion, have partners copy the chart into their journals and write statements they think are true about bacteria, drug-resistance or antibiotics in each column.
Have students share their statements with the class and record them on the board. Allow students to question statements they think might be false or erroneous. Place a mark next to them, but do not change any statements at this time. Explain that students should check the validity of these statements during their research time later and that they will be given an opportunity to revise statements before the end of the class.
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "Separating Friend From Foe Among the Body's Invaders" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20071127tuesday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. How does the author use metaphors to describe the "global war on germs"?
b. How have scientists' views toward bacteria changed over the past 100 years?
c. What happens to harmless microbes when antibiotics are used?
d. What is antibiotic resistance and why is it a problem?
e. What "bizarre contradictions" exist in our relationship with and opinions about bacteria today?
f. What is the future of our weaponry against malevolent germs?
g. Do you agree or disagree with Mr. Lederberg's assessment that we should start "thinking of a human as more than a single organism," and why?
3. Note to teacher: It may take multiple class periods for students to successfully research, design, create, play and evaluate board games as described below.
Divide the class into groups of three or four students. Explain that, with all the recent headlines about MRSA/staph, today's activity will focus on one topic discussed in the article: drug-resistant bacteria. Using all available resources, groups will first conduct research to learn about antibiotics, how bacteria become resistant to them and how to prevent antibiotic-resistant infections. A good overview of antibiotic resistance can be found online at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Web site (http://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/community/anitbiotic-resistance.htm). A more detailed account of the cellular processes involved in antibiotics and drug resistance is available at http://health.howstuffworks.com/question561.htm/printable.
Provide groups with the following questions to guide their research:
-What are bacteria? What are some bacteria that are helpful to the body? Which species of bacteria can be harmful to the body? -How does the immune system respond to an infection by malevolent (harmful) bacteria? -What are antibiotics, and how do they work? -Why are bacteria becoming resistant to antibiotics? -How do bacteria become resistant to antibiotics? What mechanisms, at the cellular level, do resistant bacteria use to counter the effects of antibiotics? -How do some bacteria acquire antibiotic-resistant genes through the mutation or transfer of genetic material? -How can people prevent antibiotic-resistant infections?
After conducting research, students then use their research to write scenario cards to be used as the basis of a simple board game (similar to Candy Land or Chutes and Ladders) about the microscopic interactions between bacteria, antibodies, antibiotics and the cells of the immune system as well as the larger scale issue of proper antibiotic use. Provide groups with the following guidelines and tips for game creation:
NAME AND PREMISE
The game needs a unique, creative name (like "The Strain Game") and a description of its basic premise, goal and general rules of play. You may wish to consult existing board games or the Internet for ideas. Helpful Web sites include Board Game Central (http://www.boardgamecentral.com/).
PLAYING PIECES AND EQUIPMENT
What is needed to play the game? What "pieces" (sometimes called "stones," "men" or "avatars") will be used by the players? Is there a theme to the pieces? How many players can play this game, both minimum and maximum? What other equipment is needed for play (like dice, a spinner, scratch paper and pencil, chips, award pieces, "funny money," etc.)?
DESIGN
What is the color scheme of the game? How should it be designed? Is it flat or three-dimensional? Does the game consist of spaces/squares, or does it follow a different scheme? Decide on a theme and look and feel. Is it based on human anatomy, a science laboratory or other concept?
SCENARIO CARDS
Provide a set of 20-30 "scenario cards," written on index cards, with instructions for players. (Students in the group may wish to divide these cards up by subtopic and write them individually.) What positive or negative actions can propel players forward or hold them back? What are the consequences of the action? Incorporate scientific facts about the microscopic interactions between bacteria, antibodies, cells of the immune system and antibiotics in the game. Include one to two ideas you learned from the article, like facts about the history of scientific thought about bacteria or our current beliefs about antibiotic use.
Here are some sample scenarios:
-You are infected with bacteria capable of producing an enzyme that destroys the antibiotic. Return to Start.
-You correctly used a prescribed antibiotic to fight an infection. Move ahead three spaces.
-Some of the harmful bacteria have changed their molecular appearance. The antibiotic is no longer able to recognize or bind to them. Move back three spaces.
-You incorrectly used antibiotics to treat a cold or flu. Antibiotics are ineffective against viruses. Move back two spaces.
-You are allergic to penicillin. Lose a turn.
-A good night's sleep has helped boost your immune system. Move ahead 2 spaces.
Be sure that students include in their game various tasks that test the players' knowledge of bacteria and antibiotics.
Before the end of class, revisit the list of statements on the board. Have students use what they have learned to revise any false statements and add new information they have learned. Students may use these statements to create additional scenario cards as necessary.
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Before the end of class, have groups discuss and divide amongst group members the remaining components of the game. Explain that each member will be responsible for completing one or more, depending on the size of the group, of the following as homework:
-Completion of any remaining research or scenario cards
-Board with interesting visuals or graphic designs
-Written description of the objective and rules of the game
-Creation of characters or game pieces, and other equipment
Provide time in a future class period for groups to complete their games, as well as to swap and play each other's games. Have groups comment on and give constructive feedback about the games. Was the game understandable and fun to play? Are the scientific facts presented correct? What suggestions do you have to improve the game?
Further Questions for Discussion:
-How do you feel about the germs all around us (in bathrooms, on doorknobs, stair railings, in our bodies, etc.)? Do you view them as harmful, necessary, unavoidable, helpful or combatable?
-What measures do you take daily to avoid getting sick or contracting illnesses?
-What are the differences between bacteria and viruses?
-Have the recent headlines made you fearful of MRSA and other drug-resistant bacteria? Do you think you should be fearful of them?
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the initial exercise, thoughtful participation and discussion of the article, participation in research and game development and completion of part of the board game for homework.
Vocabulary:
metaphorical, casualties, tending, notions, germs, drug-resistant, capable, industrious, biochemical, miscreants, friend, foe, pioneering, immunologist, bacteria, parasites, senility, flora, contemporaries, indiscriminate, susceptible, infinitely, escalation, weaponry, yeoman, tracing, complexities, DNA, sterile, indwelling, colonies, antibiotics, mayhem, microbial, malevolent, rampaging, autoimmune, resistance, evolve, inactivate, evade, consensus, bizarre, contradictions, endorse, superorganism, inviolate, politic
Extension Activities:
1. Read the excerpt, found online at http://www.holtzbrinckpublishers.com/FSG/Book/BookDisplayExerpt.asp?BookKey=2900651, from Jessica Snyder Sachs's book "Good Germs, Bad Germs: Health and Survival in a Bacterial World." Conduct a discussion about the excerpt in small groups or as a class. (Note: The excerpt may be disturbing or upsetting to some readers. You may wish to consult your teacher before deciding to read it.)
2. Research the evidence for and against the use of antibiotic products, like soap, hand sanitizers and other cleaners. Is the use of these products necessary, or are they being overused or inappropriately used? Are they contributing to the proliferation of drug-resistant bacteria? Write a persuasive paper supporting or arguing against the use of these products. Explain how the evidence supports your opinion.
3. Investigate the scientific theory that "the creation of an unnaturally microbe-free environment is at least partly responsible for the modern explosion of allergic and autoimmune diseases." Make a poster that describes the science behind this theory.
4. Conduct an experiment to culture, identify and describe bacteria. Refer to the New York Times Learning Network lesson plan "Petri-fied of Bacteria: Examining Bacteria Growth in Samples from the School Environment" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/lessons/19990223tuesday.html) for guidance.
5. Write a true/false quiz about the proper use of antibiotics for the treatment of bacterial and viral illnesses. Administer your quiz to five to ten friends or family members and make a bar graph to show their responses to the quiz questions. Then, write a one-page summary of the results that addresses the most common misconceptions about antibiotic use.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Global History -- Make a timeline showing the history of a drug-resistant form of tuberculosis, staphylococcus or other bacteria. What antibiotics have been used to treat it over time? What mechanisms, on the cellular level, does the bacterium use to counter the antibiotics? How is it believed that this form of the bacteria has evolved? Is it still a threat today and how is it currently being treated or prevented?
Language Arts -- Highlight and review the metaphors about war in the article. Then, create your own metaphors to describe a health-related topic currently in the news.
Teaching With The Times -- For the next month, clip breaking news articles that relate to MRSA or other drug-resistant bacteria. At the end of the month, review the articles and discuss the latest information about these epidemics. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Technology -- Imagine that you have been commissioned to create a new video or online game to teach students about the immune system, drug-resistant bacteria and antibiotics. Create a proposal describing your design for a game that teaches scientific concepts and facts on these topics while being fun and exciting for kids to play.
Other Information on the Web:
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Web site is .
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
Health Standard 2 - Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health. Benchmark: Understands how various messages from the media, technology and other sources impact health practices.
Health Standard 8 - Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmark: Understands how lifestyle, pathogens, family history and other risk factors are related to the cause or prevention of disease and other health problems.
Standard 5. Understands the structure and function of cells and organisms. Benchmarks: Knows that all organisms are composed of cells, which are the fundamental units of life; most organisms are single cells, but other organisms (including humans) are multicellular; knows that cells convert energy obtained from food to carry on the many functions needed to sustain life (for example, cell growth and division, production of materials that the cell or organism needs); knows that multicellular organisms have a variety of specialized cells, tissues, organs and organ systems that perform specialized functions (for example, digestion, respiration, reproduction, circulation, excretion, movement, control and coordination, protection from disease); knows how an organism's ability to regulate its internal environment enables the organism to obtain and use resources, grow, reproduce and maintain stable internal conditions while living in a constantly changing external environment; knows that organisms can react to internal and environmental stimuli through behavioral response (for example, plants have tissues and organs that react to light, water and other stimuli; animals have nervous systems that process and store information from the environment), which may be determined by heredity or from past experience; knows that disease in organisms can be caused by intrinsic failures of the system or infection by other organisms.
Science Standard 15 - Understands the nature of scientific inquiry. Benchmarks: Knows that there is no fixed procedure called "the scientific method," but that investigations involve systematic observations, carefully collected, relevant evidence, logical reasoning and some imagination in developing hypotheses and explanations; designs and conducts a scientific investigation; uses appropriate tools and techniques to gather, analyze and interpret scientific data; establishes relationships based on evidence and logical argument; knows that scientific inquiry includes evaluating results of scientific investigations, experiments, observations, theoretical and mathematical models and explanations proposed by other scientists; knows possible outcomes of scientific investigations.
Grades 9-12
Health Standard 2 - Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health. Benchmarks: Knows how the health of individuals can be influenced by the community; understands how the environment influences the health of the community; understands how the prevention and control of health problems are influenced by research and medical advances; knows how public health policies and government regulations impact health-related issues.
Health Standard 8 - Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how the immune system functions to prevent or combat disease; understands the social, economic and political effects of disease on individuals, families and communities.
Standard 5. Understands the structure and function of cells and organisms. Benchmarks: Knows the structures of different types of cell parts (for example, cell wall; cell membrane; cytoplasm; cell organelles like the nucleus, chloroplast, mitochondrion, Golgi apparatus, vacuole) and the functions they perform (for example, transport of materials, storage of genetic information, photosynthesis and respiration, synthesis of new molecules, waste disposal); understands the chemical reactions involved in cell functions (for example, food molecules taken into cells are broken down to provide the chemical constituents needed to synthesize other molecules; enzymes facilitate the breakdown and synthesis of molecules); knows how cell functions are regulated through changes in the activity of the functions performed by proteins and through the selective expression of individual genes, and how this regulation allows cells to respond to their environment and to control and coordinate cell growth and division; knows that the complexity and organization of organisms accommodates the need for obtaining, transforming, transporting, releasing and eliminating the matter and energy used to sustain the organism; understands the processes of cell division and differentiation (for example, meiosis, mitosis, embryo formation, cellular replication and differentiation into the many specialized cells, tissues and organs that comprise the final organism; each cell retains the basic information needed to reproduce itself); knows the structures of proteins (for example, long, usually folded chain molecules made of specific sequences of amino acids coded by DNA) and the role of proteins in cell function.
Science Standard 15 - Understands the nature of scientific inquiry. Benchmarks: Understands the use of hypotheses in science; designs and conducts scientific investigations by formulating testable hypotheses, identifying and clarifying the method, controls and variables, organizing and displaying data, revising methods and explanations, presenting the results and receiving critical response from others; knows that a wide range of natural occurrences may be observed to discern patterns when conditions of an investigation cannot be controlled; uses technology (for example, hand tools, measuring instruments, calculators, computers) and mathematics (for example, measurement, formulas, charts, graphs) to perform accurate scientific investigations and communications; Knows that conceptual principles and knowledge guide scientific inquiries; Knows that scientists conduct investigations for a variety of reasons.

        
Separating Friend From Foe Among the Body's Invaders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (94%); DRUG RESISTANCE (93%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (90%); BOARD GAMES (90%); BACTERIA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WRITERS (77%) Disease; Evolution; Health; Personal Health; Science; The Human Body

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



595 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: A Slowdown In Jobs Lost, And Created

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
For a few years starting in the late 1990s, Honeywell was one of those companies that couldn't stop announcing job cuts. It cut jobs in 1999, even as the rest of the economy was booming. It cut more jobs in 2000, when the stock market bubble began to leak. After the 9/11 attacks, the company, which makes cockpit controls and other high-technology equipment, announced its biggest layoff of all: 15,800 jobs.
 By 2003, though, the layoffs stopped. The economy was growing again, and so were Honeywell's sales. This year, the company will bring in about $34 billion of revenue, an increase of more than 50 percent since 2002. It's selling more navigation systems for business jets and more turbochargers to improve the fuel efficiency of cars. Honeywell even made the new insulated roof for the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans. 
 So you might think that the company would be hiring scads of workers. But it isn't. Around the world, it employs 118,000 workers today, not so many more than the 108,000 it employed back in 2002. Honeywell has simply figured how to do more business with fewer people. That's good for the company's investors and for the employees already on its payroll, but it doesn't do much to strengthen the job market. 
 When people think about today's job market -- and especially what's wrong with it -- they tend to focus on obvious pieces of bad news, like big layoffs. It's a natural human tendency. It's also misplaced.
 The biggest problem with the job market isn't the jobs that are being eliminated, shipped overseas or filled by temporary workers. The biggest problem is on the other end of the equation. There are far fewer jobs being created by new or expanding companies than there were throughout the 1990s. You can think of this as the Honeywell syndrome.
 This pattern has gone overlooked because of the way that the government tabulates its closely followed monthly jobs report. It includes only the net change in employment: jobs created minus jobs eliminated. Forecasters are expecting a gain of 70,000 for November to be reported next week.
 But every quarter the Bureau of Labor Statistics also puts out a more detailed report that explains what's happening with job creation and job destruction -- with the underlying forces that create the net changes. And contrary to popular belief, the most recent numbers show that job cuts in the private sector have fallen to a near-15-year low. In the first three months of this year, workplaces that downsized or shut down have eliminated 7.1 million jobs, equal to 6.2 percent of the nation's total private-sector employment.
 That may sound like a lot, but it's a lower percentage than at any point from 1992 (when the Labor Department began keeping such records) to last year. Scott Schuh, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, says that job destruction rates have probably been on the wane for most of the last 50 years. 
 Unfortunately, the number of new jobs created by start-up and growing businesses has also been falling. These businesses added 7.5 million jobs in the first quarter of this year, which made for the slowest pace of job creation on record. As David Talan, a Labor Department economist who helped compile the report, said, ''Job churning is slowing down.''
 Even before the economy began to weaken in recent months, net job growth has been pretty disappointing this decade. Pay and benefit increases for most workers have been disappointing, too. So a lot of people have looked around and assumed that some combination of Nafta, China and corporate downsizing was to blame. Several presidential candidates have reacted to this anxiety -- and fed it -- by talking about new trade barriers. 
 But when you look more closely, you see that job destruction is not the culprit. Back in the late 1990s, when pay was rising steadily for rich and poor alike, the rate of job destruction was about 20 percent higher than it has been lately. Honeywell was one of many companies laying off workers. 
 Yet healthy job creation -- 25 percent higher in the late '90s than in early 2007 -- more than made up for the cuts. Mr. Schuh of the Boston Fed points out that one of the primary ways that economies become more efficient, and lift living standards, is by reallocating workers to more productive jobs.
 You can make the argument, then, that today's economy isn't suffering from too much dynamism but from too little.
 It's worth keeping in mind that the decline in job churn does bring benefits, too. Executives today can track the ups and downs of their business more closely than they used to, thanks in large part to computerized inventory systems. Better transportation -- think of FedEx -- also helps companies to keep their warehouses lean. So a company is less likely to find itself suddenly stuck with too many workers or too few.
 This is especially welcome given that the job market has become more volatile in other ways. Companies are more willing to fire workers than they once were, and workers are more willing to switch jobs. As a result, the average job tenure for workers has fallen in recent decades. It would have fallen much more if companies were seesawing between expansion and contraction at the rate that they once were.
 But whatever the benefits of the long-term trend, we're still left with an economy that simply is not generating enough jobs. Economists don't completely understand why, but the pattern is pretty stark. The number of new jobs created early this year was smaller, incredibly, than in early 2002, when the economy was still shaking off the effects of the 2001 recession.
 ''How do you generate more job creation?'' asks Jared Bernstein, an economist at the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''That's not a question policy makers typically ask themselves.'' He's right. Instead, conservatives tend to assume that the free market will take care of the problem, while liberals talk about cushioning workers against the economy's ups and downs.
 But neither approach is going to solve the current problem. A better idea would be to encourage investments that could eventually lead to new jobs. The government can do this directly, as it did when it helped build the computer network that became the Internet. Or it can do it indirectly, through tax credits and the like. My two favorite candidates are spending on medical research, which has stagnated under the Bush administration, and big incentives for breakthroughs in alternative energy.
 Remember, job creation has been lackluster recently despite healthy economic growth. If the economy were to slow down or fall into a recession, the need for smart, job-generating investments would be even greater. 
 In related news, a survey of consumer confidence released yesterday showed the sort of decline that, according to Merrill Lynch, ''is rarely seen outside of an impending recession or a natural disaster.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day yesterday, about the slowing rate of job creation in the United States, referred imprecisely to the work by Honeywell, whose work force history was used as an example, on the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans. The company made a material that helps insulate the roof; it did not make the roof itself.

GRAPHIC: CHART: FEWER LOSSES, FEWER GAINS: The number of jobs that companies create and eliminate each quarter, as a percentage of all employment.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1) Chart shows line graph for JOBS CREATED and JOBS CUT for the following years: 07 '05 '03 '01 '99 '97 '95 '93. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); TERRORISM (71%); STATISTICS (69%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (93%); HON (LSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (93%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



596 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Health Care: A National Conversation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''The High Cost of Health Care'' (editorial, Nov. 25) captures the true complexities facing the challenges of the American health care system. 
 Those who truly immerse themselves in the issues of health care are well aware that indeed reform is not near, nor will it ever be achieved until there is a fundamental compromise on all the matters outlined. 
 The greatest obstacle to achieving universal health care will come from those who choose to avoid these fundamental issues while guided only by their political ambitions. Reno DiScala, M.D. 
 Glen Cove, N.Y., Nov. 25, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your otherwise thoughtful editorial about the health care crisis facing the United States curiously dismisses the idea of a single-payer health care plan as ''no panacea'' for the cost problem and as having ''limited political support.'' 
 But the question isn't whether a single-payer plan is a panacea -- it is whether a single-payer plan would significantly reduce costs compared with insurance-based plans, and the answer is a decided yes.
 The administrative costs of Medicare are approximately 20 percent of the administrative costs of private insurance plans, and all of those administrative savings in a comprehensive Medicare-for-all system could be poured into more and better health care. 
 As to whether a single-payer plan has political support, it depends on whether you ask the average person or the average politician. Whereas polls show that a majority of the people favor a single-payer plan, the politicians, many of whom are beholden to the insurance industry, would like you to believe otherwise. 
 Instead of wringing your hands about the supposed unworkability and unpopularity of a single-payer plan (even in the face of the highly successful and popular Medicare, with a 40-year track record), The Times should put its considerable influence behind the only real solution to the health care crisis: Medicare for all.
 Peter Hanauer
 Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 25, 2007
 To the Editor:
 A single-payer, government-run system was only briefly mentioned and was immediately dismissed as ''no panacea for the cost problem.'' The truth is that single-payer, government-run health care has been a panacea.
 In the 46 years that I've practiced family medicine, I've found Medicare, Medicaid, the Veterans Administration, all of them single-payer government-administered health care programs, more predictable, uniform and reliable than the for-profit health care insurance companies. This is better for doctors and hospitals and certainly better for the patients.
 I like one form to file, one payer, one set of rules for everyone and the assurance that everyone has health care coverage when patients come to see me.
 Melvin H. Kirschner, M.D.
 Van Nuys, Calif., Nov. 25, 2007
 To the Editor:
 With regard to ''The High Cost of Health Care,'' the amount we spend on health care, while troubling, should not be the main issue in the great health care debate. The focus should be on two things: one, the 47 million uninsured who cannot regularly participate in the health care system (not all of which is due to the high cost); and two, the poor state of our nation's health in comparison to other countries that spend far less in this area.
 Many of our citizens do not have good health, despite the expensive technology, drugs and specialists indicative of our health care system. Our infant mortality rate remains high in comparison to other nations, and older adults live many years with chronic illness and disability.
 We can expect many of our health status indicators to get worse, not better, in the coming decades as our uninsured population grows, our minority and immigrant populations grow, and as baby boomers age. 
 These demographic influences are the rationale for the Healthy People 2010 goals of reducing racial and ethnic health disparities and extending years of healthy life. We are the richest nation. First, let's allocate our economic, medical and research resources to provide good health to every American; then we can figure out how to do it cost-effectively. Jan Warren-Findlow
 Charlotte, N.C., Nov. 25, 2007
 The writer is an assistant professor of public health sciences, University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
 To the Editor: 
 The Times is right to call health care costs ''the worst long-term fiscal crisis facing the nation.'' 
 Although universal coverage could be cheaper to finance and easier to administer, few concur on how to preserve consumer choice or how to persuade the uninsured to buy into the system. 
 Here's how: 
 Extend Medicare coverage to all, financed by an increase in the withholding tax and elimination of the tax subsidies for employee health insurance. Those willing to settle on a Canadian-style system can have one, but those wanting to opt out could receive a tax credit to buy alternative or supplemental policies offered by the private market.
 Insurers would be required to accept all applicants and offer community rates, with the government underwriting catastrophic costs above a defined level. 
 The Medicare withholding tax could be progressively structured and the credit capped to provide fairness.
 Allan Ostergren
 Director
 Institute for SocioEconomic Studies
 White Plains, Nov. 26, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 I would certainly not agree with ''almost all economists'' that ''the main driver of high medical spending here is our wealth.'' The per capita income of Americans is less than that of several European countries, and certainly not enough to explain our spending twice as much per capita on health care. 
 Where we are unique is in leaving most of our health system to the tender mercies of profit-maximizing investor-owned businesses.
 You are right that Medicare-for-all ''is no panacea for the cost problem.'' As now structured, Medicare pays specialists extravagant fees to perform tests and procedures, which drives up costs. But it could easily be reformed. In any case, some sort of single-payer system will be necessary to control costs, even if not sufficient. Marcia Angell, M.D.
 Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 25, 2007
 The writer is a senior lecturer in social medicine at Harvard Medical School and a former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FELIX SOCKWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



597 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Post Big Drop In Survey

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Housing prices fell the most in almost 20 years this summer, and consumers remain deeply skeptical about the economy, according to reports released yesterday.
 Prices of single-family homes in the third quarter fell 4.5 percent nationwide compared with a year ago, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller National Home Price Index. It was the largest drop since records for the index began in 1988. 
 A separate survey by S.& P./Case-Shiller of home prices in 20 major metropolitan areas showed a drop of 4.95 percent in September from a year ago, the biggest decline in more than six years. Prices declined 0.9 percent in September alone, and were down in all 20 areas, the survey found. 
 The Case-Shiller surveys are widely followed by investors, though many market watchers are looking to this week's reports on sales of new and existing homes in October. The three surveys are expected to provide a decidedly bleak portrait of the current housing market.
 A steady rise in foreclosures tied to the struggling mortgage market has weighed down housing demand, and tightened lending standards have made it more difficult for Americans to get home loans. The result has been a steady drop in value. 
 ''We are fast approaching the rate of price decline seen at the end of the 1990-91 recession,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a research note. ''The odds strongly favor blowing past this mark in coming months.''
 An index of consumer confidence, meanwhile, fell to 87.3 in November, a sharper-than-expected drop, reaching to its lowest level since October 2005, the Conference Board said yesterday.
 In housing, Miami, San Diego and Phoenix recorded the steepest monthly declines in single-family home prices in September, all in excess of 1.5 percent. 
 Prices in the New York City area dipped 0.3 percent in September, after a 0.7 percent drop in August. They are down 3.64 percent over the last 12 months.
 Patrick Newport, economist at Global Insight, a research firm in Lexington, Mass., said that home prices were dropping more sharply on the less expensive end of the housing market, the sector most significantly hurt by the subprime collapse. 
 ''The subprime problems are a little bit messier than we thought,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (97%); HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); CITIES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



598 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: A Large Shadow Cast by an Absent Country

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., Nov. 27 

 BODY:
The Middle East peace conference here on Tuesday was officially about ending the Israeli-Palestinian dispute. But there was an unspoken goal just below the surface: stopping the rising regional influence of Iran and Islamic radicalism.
 That is why, despite enormous skepticism about the ability of the Israelis and Palestinians to reach a final peace treaty, there is enormous relief among the many Sunni Arab countries in attendance that the United States has re-engaged in what they see as the larger and more important battle for Muslim hearts and minds.
 ''The Arabs have come here not because they love the Jews or even the Palestinians,'' said an adviser to the Palestinian negotiating team who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''They came because they need a strategic alliance with the United States against Iran.'' 
 Hovering over Annapolis are deep anxieties over the challenge from a resurgent Shiite and non-Arab Iran, with its nuclear program and its successful allies and proxies in southern Lebanon, Iraq and the Palestinian territories. Those Arab nations fear that the tide of history is moving away from them, and that they are losing their own youth to religious militancy.
 ''There is a genuine concern and fear among political classes in the Arab world that the Islamic trend hasn't reached its plateau,'' said Hisham Melhem, the Washington bureau chief for Al Arabiya television. ''They worry that Iran and its allies act as if this may be the beginning of the end of America's moment in the Middle East.''
 Those concerns are linked in the minds of the region's leaders to the Palestinian issue, he said. ''They want to try for a resolution to an Israeli-Palestinian conflict that has always been the focal point for mobilization of Islamic and radical groups,'' he said.
 Dan Gillerman, Israel's ambassador to the United Nations, put it this way: ''This is the summit of our hope and their fear. It's our hope that at long last the Arab world will understand that the Israeli-Palestinian problem is not the core and can be solved, and their fear of Islamic extremism and Iran, which they call the Persian threat. This is what brought them here.''
 In his speech here, President Bush listed three reasons why he thought ''the time is right'' for Annapolis. First, he said, ''because Palestinians and Israelis have leaders who are determined to achieve peace.'' But second, he said, ''because a battle is under way for the future of the Middle East, and we must not cede victory to the extremists.'' His third reason was an extension of the second, ''because the world understands the urgency of supporting these negotiations.''
 In his own speech, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, took a similar tack, addressing Mr. Bush directly and saying, ''We do recognize -- and I presume that you share with me this view -- that the absence of hope and overwhelming despair would feed extremism.''
 The Saudi foreign minister, Saud al-Faisal, was blunt. ''Stagnation in the peace process has increased the appeal of extremist ideologies,'' he said. ''Feelings of despair and frustration have reached a dangerously high level.''
 Shibley Telhami, Anwar Sadat professor of government at the University of Maryland, said that the fear of growing militancy and radicalism, fed by the model of Iran and Al Qaeda, has brought the Arabs together in the hope that a new urgency will persuade Washington to try to settle the Israeli-Palestinian problem.
 ''They're very worried about militancy and their public's great sympathy with Hezbollah and Hamas,'' Mr. Telhami said, speaking by telephone from Cairo. ''They were all stunned by the Hamas takeover of Gaza'' in June.
 The countries of the gulf in particular, he said, ''are worried about regional stability, about their kids and about jeopardizing their extraordinary economic power.'' The moderate Arab states are ''vulnerable to militancy because of the Arab-Israeli conflict and Iraq, and they want to reduce their vulnerability.''
 Aaron David Miller, a former negotiator for the Clinton administration, said that while he applauded the effort at Annapolis, he doubted that the Bush administration ''has the will and skill'' to pull off a peace treaty. ''The chances for a Palestinian state in George Bush's term are slim to none,'' he said. But the Annapolis gathering does have important regional significance.
 ''For the Arab centrists, the new Middle East is a nasty one, and the Palestinian issue resonates emotionally and deeply,'' he said.
 So despite low Arab expectations, too, Arabs came as a way to commit Washington, as both Saudi Arabia and Jordan have been demanding since 2001, to press for an Israeli-Palestinian peace and begin a larger regional process through it. ''Bush will be gone in a year,'' Mr. Miller said. ''But the Arabs want to lock the U.S. into some kind of negotiating process in which the next president is also locked.''
 Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of New York, put it pithily. ''Everybody at Annapolis has something in common,'' he said. ''It's not love of Israel or the Palestinians. It's fear of Iran. Everyone needs a relative to protect them from Iran.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (88%) MARYLAND USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



599 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; OUTDOORS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: LONGTIME MENTOR THRIVES WITH A SENSE OF WONDER

BYLINE: By JAMES PROSEK

 BODY:
When I was 14, I was caught fishing illegally in a drinking-water reservoir by a game warden named Joe Haines. Instead of giving me a ticket, he took me under his wing. 
 I learned a lot of things from Haines: how to find edible mushrooms in the woods or four-leaf clovers in the yard; how to catch blue crabs and find razor clams; and how to spear, skin and cook eels. 
 Haines was a throwback. He valued relationships in terms of what you had to offer him and what he had to offer you. The farmers and trappers he grew up with in the 1940s in rural Connecticut lived in a barter economy. If someone gave him a bushel of apples, Haines would return the favor with the equivalent in steamer clams or venison. 
 ''One hand washes the other,'' he often told me. I was left to wonder, given all the lessons he had taught me and the free meals at his kitchen table, what I had to offer him.
 Our friendship was not without conflicts. One was that Haines fished for the frying pan while I liked to release my fish, which he saw as a waste of time. I also had my sights set on going to college; Haines had shunned formal education for hard-earned experience in the field. 
 But for the most part, Haines gave me a lot, and I often mentioned that some day I'd like to pay him back. I killed an occasional bluefish or striper for Haines's freezer. And one day I painted a watercolor of a native brook trout for him. The gift was appreciated, but I knew he was thinking -- what was the use if he couldn't eat it? 
 ''Painting doesn't put much in the pot,'' he said on more than one occasion. 
 One night, out striper fishing in the surf, I asked Haines what I could do for him. ''James, one day, when you make your first million,'' he said without hesitation, ''you can take me to Alaska.'' Million or not, I promised that I would.
 Fifteen years later, I arranged a trip for us at a fly-out camp in Lake Clark, Alaska, at the headwaters of Bristol Bay, to fish for salmon and rainbow trout.
 The flight in an eight-passenger Piper from Anchorage to the camp took us past the mountains and glacial fields of the dramatic Lake Clark Pass. Haines had his Bass Pro Shops cap turned back, his forehead glued to the window. We landed on a mud and gravel strip near the village of Port Alsworth, a town with about 30 year-round residents.
 The next morning we were flying in a float plane, over crater lakes rimmed with golden birch and alder, and mountain peaks dusted with snow. The pilot circled a swampy basin along the coast, looking for silver salmon and counting brown bears. It was mid-September and nearing the end for all runs of Pacific salmon.
 The pilot landed on a narrow strip of water, a slough. He moored the plane to shore and we grabbed our rods. It was not long before a brown bear came lumbering up the water's edge. 
 ''There's one ornery male here we have to watch out for,'' the pilot said. Haines had his eyes riveted on the bear in awe. At 70, he had lost nothing of his sense of wonder. The bear turned and swam away. 
 Each morning of our three-night stay at camp, Haines woke me up at 5 o'clock to tell me what I was missing by being asleep. He'd been up in the dark watching the first light come to the lake, and hoped to see the first aurora of the season. 
 On our second and third days, we fished for rainbow trout, fat from eating salmon eggs and the flesh of post-spawn salmon. We walked over the tundra, ripe with crowberries, cranberries and blueberries, heath and willow and Labrador tea with leaves that had turned stunning reds and yellows and mauves. We watched eagles and owls and spooked big flocks of ptarmigan, mottled brown and white, their plumage already turning from brown to white for winter. 
 ''I sure wish I could get Muriel up here to see this,'' Haines said of his wife.
 On our return from La Guardia Airport, Muriel dropped me off at my house and I struggled to open a box to remove one of the frozen salmon we had brought home. 
 ''Hurry up,'' Haines grumbled. I was hoping for a thank-you. 
 ''You slept the whole flight home and I didn't,'' he added. ''I've got a date with the sheets.'' 
 He left and said nothing else, and didn't have to. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Haines collected a few salmon for the pot at a fly-out camp in Lake Clark, Alaska, at the headwaters of Bristol Bay.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PROSEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A Piper from Anchorage took the group to Port Alsworth. Map details area of LAKE CLARK NAT'L PARK AND PRESERVE, Alaska. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (89%); LAKES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (65%); MOUNTAINS (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); BASS PRO SHOPS INC (51%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (51%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007



600 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: How the Job Churn Numbers Are Counted

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The numbers on job churning compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics are based on a quarterly canvass of work sites across the country. The survey includes all of the roughly seven million private-sector work sites that are part of the unemployment-insurance system. These work sites account for 112 million workers. 
 Another 15 million to 18 million workers -- mainly self-employed -- are not included in the survey. Government workers are also not counted in the statistics.
 Each work site is treated separately. A Starbucks in New York and a Starbucks in Dallas are considered different workplaces.
 If a workplace increases its number of employees from one quarter to the next, the increase counts toward the number of new jobs created during that quarter. So do workers hired by newly started businesses. In the first three months of 2007 -- the most recent quarter for which the government has released data -- 7.5 million new jobs were created. 
 Work sites that reduce their number of employees, or close down altogether, count toward the job-destruction tally. In the first quarter of this year, 7.1 million jobs were eliminated.
 The survey tracks overall employment, not individual workers. If a work site started a quarter with 100 workers, fired five of them, replaced all five and ended the quarter with 100 workers, the government would not consider it to have created or eliminated jobs.
 In a given quarter, about one million of the seven million work sites do not change their employment level.
 Unlike the monthly jobs report -- which reports only net changes in employment -- the quarterly numbers are not based on a statistical sample intended to approximate the entire job market. They are instead based on administrative records covering all seven million work sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); STATISTICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); DISMISSALS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2007

 
