

601 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL VIEW;
BAM Spruces Up To Keep Pace With Its Vision

BYLINE: By Bernard Holland 

 BODY:
Institutions keep their identities by always changing. This axiom applies even to places like the Brooklyn Academy of Music, though BAM is one of the few performing-arts organizations around with an identifiable personality worth holding on to. Self-renewal is in the air.
Two hours with Harvey Lichtenstein recently conveyed the restlessness. Mr. Lichtenstein has run BAM for 29 years and -- slowly, painfully -- turned it into a meeting place for the hip and the intellectually curious. He has done so despite BAM's surroundings, a chunk of Fort Greene long on urban degradation and short on Arcadian charm. 
 For a midtown or downtown dweller, BAM is no farther, by subway at least, than Lincoln Center. The ride is simple and direct, but the mind throws up barriers: the bridge or tunnel to get past; the Atlantic Avenue subway station, a vast, hopeless monument to dirt and neglect.
One enticement added in 1987 has been the Majestic Theater, an amphitheaterlike space around the corner, cleverly redone in shabby-chic. If its Spartan seats have provided a test of artistic stimulation over physical discomfort, Mr. Lichtenstein says that relief for the masochistically challenged is on the way: softer benches with more accommodatingly angled backs by the end of the year.
BAM's main building -- with its opera house, Carey Playhouse and smaller Lepercq Space upstairs -- has never been physically enticing. There is a post-office monumentality to its long and gloomy lobby. The grayness of the opera-house interior does nothing to warm the enthusiasm. The Carey features a wall so vulnerable to outside noise that even a passing car or two disrupt the concentration.
Major changes are about to happen, some beginning this summer. Mr. Lichtenstein promises a refurbished lobby; the conversion of the Carey Playhouse into a cineplex, with up to three movie houses (whether for specific series like the Walter Reade Theater's or for high-toned commercial runs like the Angelika Film Center's has not been determined), and the transformation of the Lepercq into a very different kind of space. The opera house will be relighted and given new seats and carpets. Its depressing aspect is not organic, Mr. Lichtenstein said, and is easily reversible with the use of a few flattering lights.
"So many New York halls lack a place where audiences can meet before and after performances," he added. "There's nothing to bring them together. People need somewhere they can sit and talk about what they are going to hear or what they have just been to."
BAM's answer is an upstairs cafe supplanting the Lepercq Space and reachable by escalator, not the current elevators. If BAM is indeed an island, the thinking seems to go, let it be an enticing one, a location where theatergoers will come early and stay late, arguing over Lana Turner, period fiddle-playing and Giorgio Strehler.
BAM, like Carnegie Hall, is owned by the City of New York. Asked who will pay for all this redevelopment, Mr. Lichtenstein says most of the money -- about $7 million -- is in place, with the bulk coming from the city. Elsewhere, BAM's development department is operating valiantly in the face of fierce competition for shrinking arts dollars. There is even optimism about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose administration is busy practicing drastic economies. Mr. Giuliani is an opera fan and perhaps more than a casual one. The mayor went to the Majestic for Monteverdi's "Incoronazione di Poppea" last month, braved the hard seats and long evening, and stayed to the end.
BAM is now New York's established importer of early opera. William Christie and Les Arts Florissants are regular visitors and have just come and gone with Handel's "Orlando." The "Poppea" was Jonathan Miller's production for the Glimmerglass Opera in upstate New York, and Handel's "Tamerlano," also from Glimmerglass, may not be far behind; the operatic Rameau could make a rare appearance from Europe. But staged opera is expensive. Top tickets for "Orlando" reached a hair-raising (for BAM, at least) $120, with a low end of $22.50.
The Brooklyn Philharmonic continues its efforts toward respectability with a promising new music director in Robert Spano and a series of theme weekends designed by Joseph Horowitz. "Orientalism," last weekend, was the latest topic; the concerts introduced Mr. Spano to New York. The Philip Glass-Robert Wilson "Einstein on the Beach" was a major event in New York when it came to BAM in 1984 and again in 1992. Mr. Lichtenstein reports that the two men are working on a sequel. Also being pursued is Mr. Miller's minimal staging of Bach's "St. Matthew Passion," which appeared in Britain several years ago.
One solution to living in a bad neighborhood is to stay there until it gets better. Known for his optimism and salesmanship, Mr. Lichtenstein says betterment is about to happen. Major retail outlets and some new housing under construction a few blocks away creak gradually toward realization. Given a pleasant path between them, Fort Greene is not that far from Park Slope and Brooklyn Heights, both with their leafy and attractive residential streets. There is even hope for the dungeons of the Atlantic Avenue subway station once present construction is over. BAM sits tight, tends to its own and hopes for the best.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosemary Joshua in "Orlando"--Early opera has become a prime BAM specialty. (Dan Rest/BAM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC ANGELIKA FILM CENTER LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); FILM (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); OPERA (70%); CITIES (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD; LICHTENSTEIN, HARVEY HARVEY LICHTENSTEIN (93%); CAREY PLAYHOUSE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



602 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK RADIO;
New York Radio Is Alive and Well

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Neil Strauss displays a complete lack of understanding of the commercial radio medium, how it works and who it serves. For starters, the headline with his article is ludicrous: New York radio has never been healthier. Radio stations in this market attained record revenues in 1995, something Mr. Strauss apparently feels is a sign of weakness. Advertisers are both willing and eager to be on New York radio because of its targeting ability, as well as its ability to travel with its audience (in the car, at work, etc.) and the intense loyalty of its listeners. 
 But economics is only one measure of New York radio's vitality. In any given week, 96 percent of all persons 12 years of age and older listen to the radio in New York. And that high percentage holds true, no matter what demographic segment of the population you were to examine. So, although New York radio may not be delivering what Mr. Strauss would like to hear, he is clearly in the minority.
Mr. Strauss complains of "narrow-niche formats," market research and consultants. He misses the point. The very success of New York radio is its ability to serve specific, targeted audiences. That's why radio listeners are so loyal. That's why listening levels are so high. That's why the average New York area listener spends 25 hours a week with his or her radio.
 
SANFORD JOSEPHSON
New York
 
The writer is executive director of the New York Market Radio Broadcasters Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MARKET RADIO BROADCASTERS ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL NEIL STRAUSS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



603 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Variable Rate

 BODY:
To the Editor: I read with interest a letter to the editor Jan. 14 from Victor Lopez of Hyatt Hotels. He said: "Hyatt Hotels Corporation policy is always to quote the same rates in inquiries made to either the hotel or our central reservation office. Room rates are set at the local hotel and then entered into hotel and central reservation computers simultaneously." This strikes me as ludicrous.
On the Sunday of the recent Blizzard of 1996, I was stranded after the New York airports closed and had to find lodging for the night. I was able to get from La Guardia to Manhattan and wound up at Grand Central Terminal, with no luck getting to my home 25 miles north of the city. 
 With the Grand Hyatt right there at the station, I went to the front desk to ask about a room. (I am a member of Hyatt's Gold Passport frequent stay program.) I was told that the rate for the night would be $230. I thought this to be a lot and decided to call the Hyatt 800 central reservation number. Much to my amazement, the rate quoted there was only $159 per night. I made a reservation.
 
KEITH BRONITT
Scarsdale, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: H (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (97%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP; GRAND HYATT HOTEL HYATT HOTELS CORP (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: HYATT HOTELS CORP; GRAND HYATT HOTEL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC) HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRLINES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); 

PERSON: VICTOR LOPEZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



604 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: New Jersey;
Supermarket Expansions Attracting Bank Services

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
SOMETHING different is being marketed these days at the ShopRite supermarket that opened last year on a stretch of the Hudson River waterfront in Jersey City. Along with fresh produce and meats, consumers can shop for mortgage loans and savings accounts.
Since June, Statewide Savings Bank, based in Jersey City, has operated a bank branch in the supermarket, one of a spate of such branches to open in New Jersey over the last year or so. Most are in the larger markets like the 67,000-square-foot ShopRite on Luis Munoz Marin Boulevard in Jersey City. 
 Statewide's branch, like other in-store banks, provides full service and occupies an average of 400 square feet. The branches reflect the convergence of two trends in the state: the push by banks to find new and less expensive outlets and by supermarkets to open superstores, considered the fastest growing segment of the industry (and defined by the Food Marketing Institute in Washington as having a median size of 53,533 square feet and offering a variety of nonfood merchandise and services).
Both trends, industry analysts said, are being fueled by each industry's drive to meet consumers' demands for easier and more convenient one-stop shopping and to remain competitive. The activity is good news for the marketplace. With a flattening retail climate and the filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection of national chains like Caldor and Bradlees, supermarkets are among the few users still hungry for space. As a result, rents are inching upward.
Also, because supermarkets are returning to older and more densely populated counties in the northern half of the state, where large sites are scarce, former industrial properties are being used for retail sites. A Manhattan-based developer, Clifpass, for instance, is seeking approval to build a 195,000-square-foot shopping center with a 57,000-square-foot Pathmark on a 15-acre site straddling the border between Clifton and Passaic, where a former wool-manufacturing complex stands.
The supermarket industry recognizes "that bigger is better and that there is a necessity to grow or die," said Charles Bernhaut, a consultant with the Slayton Development Group in Garden City, L.I., which specializes in supermarket development. Fueling that need to grow, he said, is competition -- not only among home-grown chains but also among newcomers such as Stop & Shop of Quincy, Mass., and Edwards Super Food Store of Windsor Locks, Conn. Others angling for a foothold in the state's more than $200-million-a-week food business are warehouse clubs like Sam's Club and BJ's Wholesale Club.
Ted Kraus, who heads a retail consulting firm in Mercerville, predicted that the result would not be "many more supermarkets, just bigger ones." And because the state's economy is not growing, the stores may wind up just "robbing customers," from one another, said Mr. Kraus.
Nonetheless, most of the supermarket chains from ShopRite and Pathmark to A. & P. are either rushing to open superstores or replace or expand existing supermarkets with superstores. A. & P. recently opened a store of more than 60,000 square foot on the Boulevard in Kenilworth and the Acme that was expanded to 64,000 square feet opened in December in the 180,000-square-foot Fair Ground Plaza retail strip on High Street in Mount Holly. Also, ShopRite has opened 12 larger stores and Pathmark 8 in the last three years.
Some of the new or revived stores have bank branches and many more of the new stores planned are expected to include banking facilities. Putting bank branches in these bigger stores is "another facet in the strategy of attracting new shoppers," said Matthew Casey, president of Casey & Associates, a Howell-based research company specializing in supermarkets.
Stanley Sorkin, vice president of public affairs at Pathmark Stores in Woodbridge, agreed. "It is the latest trend," he said, "to try and capitalize on the idea of one-stop shopping." So far, he said, three of Pathmark's 65 stores in New Jersey have full-service bank branches.
Laura McCafferty, a spokeswoman for the Elizabeth-based Wakefern Food Corporation, the cooperative that runs the ShopRite chain said that "in-store bank branches" benefit everyone. She said that of the chain's 114 stores in New Jersey, 8 already had banks.
The concept of in-store bank branches is not new but has gained appeal over the last five years as a way for banks to broaden their customer base and deliver their services more efficiently and less expensively. Nationally, bank branches in supermarkets have increased from 697 in 1989 to 3,142 in 1995, said International Banking Technologies, an Atlanta-based consulting firm that helps banks set up store branches.
Developing a branch in a store costs about $200,000, compared to the cost of building a 4,000-square-foot free-standing bank branch for as much as $2 million, said John W. Garnett, president of International Banking Technologies. But the concept has been slow to catch on in the Northeast, and especially in New Jersey. Now the growth of supermarkets has piqued the interest of banks. Stores must be at least 35,000 square feet to contain a bank branch.
The Bank of Mid-Jersey in Bordentown opened two supermarket branches last year and will open three more in 1996, said Joseph M. Reardon, executive vice president of the bank, which has 18 branches. Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, with a total of 457 branches, has 8 supermarket branches in New Jersey, 55 in Pennsylvania and 5 in Delaware.
MERGERS and acquisitions in the banking industry, which have intensified competition, are also stoking the banks' interest. Since 1990, 70 state-chartered commercial and savings banks and savings and loans were acquired or closed, said the New Jersey Department of Banking and Commerce. In addition, large out-of-state banks are moving into New Jersey, such as First Union of North Carolina, which recently acquired First Fidelity Bank Corporation in Newark; and PNC Bank Corporation of Pittsburgh, which purchased Midlantic Bank in Edison. The industry also faces competition from pension funds and on-line banking services.
Supermarkets also offer banks a potential customer base of 20,000 to 30,000 people who shop an average of twice a week and the opportunity to offer banking services mornings and evenings, seven days a week, said Mr. Garnett. "The approach behind in-store branches borrows a page from retailers and gets bankers to go out in the aisles to sell their services," he said.
For example, every day of the week, Statewide Bank employees, dressed in aprons, can be found walking the aisles in the ShopRite in Jersey City, which draws 25,000 shoppers a week. "It raises awareness that the bank is there," said Clifford J. Adams, president of the $575 million institution. Statewide has 15 branches in Passaic, Hudson, Bergen and Union Counties, including a second in-store branch, which opened in December in a ShopRite in Passaic.
Mr. Adams of Statewide said the company decided to enter supermarket banking last year because "you have to be where the customers are and everyone has to go food shopping." The in-store branches give a "competitive edge to the bank," he said, adding that banking "is a consumer-driven business and if this is what people want there will be more in-store branches."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clifford Adams, head of Statewide Savings Bank, and Marina Apolito, branch manager, at Jersey City ShopRite. Gehan Gobrial, in apron, seeks out new customers. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEWIDE SAVINGS BANK (NJ) SAM'S CLUB (60%); STATEWIDE SAVINGS BANK SLA (58%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (50%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (56%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATEWIDE SAVINGS BANK (NJ) FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (56%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SUPERMARKETS; FOOD GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



605 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2797 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Who Mold The Shape of a City

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
IN the city at large, the overheated real estate climate of the 1980's was conjured in a single name: "Donald." But in the corridors and chambers of City Hall where development deals were crafted, another name resonated forcefully: "Sandy."
"Sandy" meant Samuel H. Lindenbaum, a seignorial counsel at the firm of Rosenman & Colin and dean of the land-use bar, a group of several dozen real estate lawyers whose mission was to add value to their clients' property, finding the path to the biggest buildings and most profitable tenancies through their command of zoning, environmental and landmarks rules. 
 Their search for development potential even took them under water. For Trump City, a 1988 version of the Riverside South proposal on the West Side, Rosenman & Colin proposed to exploit some 4.5 million square feet of development rights attributable to that part of the property between the shore and the pierhead line.
Because many land-use lawyers had worked in government, they knew where political power was situated and had a bantering familiarity with city officials. As such, they were often able to fashion the 11th-hour compromises that were required when opposition arose.
Since they appeared at hearings and in the press on behalf of clients who often shunned the limelight, members of the land-use bar became the public embodiment of powerful development interests and multimillion-dollar construction projects.
As they guided projects past community boards, the City Planning Commission, the Landmarks Preservation Commission, the Board of Standards and Appeals and the Board of Estimate, land-use lawyers influenced the physical environment of New York City in the 80's as much as any developer or architect.
And, like developers and architects, they were hit so hard when the market crashed that they are only now recovering.
"To the extent there was a land-use bar, it was shattered by the recession," said Gordon J. Davis of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. "Not in the sense that there aren't still practitioners, but it shattered a lot of firms, caused practices to be damaged and caused practitioners to move to other firms."
A formidable team headed by John E. Zuccotti at Brown & Wood scattered widely, in part because the decline in business underscored the isolation of the small land-use group from the rest of the firm. The land-use and environmental firm of Berle, Kass & Case was closed altogether, with the recession taking some of the blame. The firm of Sive, Paget & Riesel shrank by about 25 percent, although it has now rebounded. As for other lawyers, most are no longer at the firms where they were working 10 years ago -- if those firms even exist.
"There's obviously less business opportunity than there was in the mid-80's," said Mr. Zuccotti, who has been president and chief executive of Olympia & York Companies (U.S.A.) since 1989. "But there is also much more competition because there are many more skilled practitioners than there were in 1970, when it was basically Sandy and myself."
ROSENMAN'S 10-lawyer land-use group survived, but not without difficulty. "There were times when I myself thought about the possibility of cutting it down," Mr. Lindenbaum said, "because it was hard to justify 100 percent of the people with 60 percent or two-thirds of the work."
Most members of the land-use bar are in their mid-40's to mid-50's, reflecting the fact that they came of professional age as the development boom got under way. There are few practitioners in their 20's and 30's.
"Business dried up and people stopped coming up," said Howard J. Goldman, a 44-year-old partner at Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts. "There's no young land-use bar, which is good, because when business picks up again, that will mean we'll get all the work.'
And, by almost all accounts, business is finally picking up.
"It's not constant," Mr. Lindenbaum said. "It's selective. But there is more activity, more interest. We are seeing it somewhat in institutional projects and very much in residential projects." On the institutional front, Rosenman represented the Museum of Modern Art in its recent acquisition of the adjacent Dorset Hotel. On the residential front, it represents Millennium Partners, developers of three apartment towers around Lincoln Square. The "innovative mixed-use formula" devised by Millennium may also prove to be the key to successful redevelopment of the Alexander's site at Lexington Avenue and 59th Street, said Michael T. Sillerman, a partner at Rosenman.
Such prospects recall the high-stakes undertakings of the 80's. But to survive, the land-use bar has had to expand its horizons beyond office towers, mega-projects and the five boroughs.
Robert S. Davis and Judith M. Gallent, formerly of Berle, Kass and now at Robinson Silverman Pearce Aronsohn & Berman, are representing the Town of Mamaroneck, N.Y., in a pending constitutional challenge to the rezoning of two golf courses, which precluded residential redevelopment of that acreage. They also represent the Sterling Forest Corporation, which has proposed a new community of 13,000 homes, with 8 million square feet of commercial and industrial space, on a wilderness tract 40 miles north of New York City.
Paul D. Selver, a Brown & Wood alumnus who is now at Battle Fowler, has found himself in New Orleans, advising clients in a dispute with an adajcent property owner over a new street that had been mandated as part of a special zoning district. "It seemed natural to look beyond New York," Mr. Selver said. "The New York City Zoning Resolution is so complex and the problems here are on so many different levels that when we focus on a problem somewhere else, if we have local counsel, we can really be helpful."
Few land-use lawyers have wandered farther afield than Shelly S. Friedman, who founded the specialized "boutique" practice of Friedman & Gotbaum in 1994, with Irving J. Gotbaum. Both men had been partners at Brown & Wood.
Mr. Friedman represented the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China in its recent deal to move its United Nations mission from 155 West 66th Street to 35th Street and First Avenue, which freed an adjacent parcel for development by Millennium Partners. The negotiations included what Mr. Friedman believes to be the first zoning lot merger written in Chinese.
Typically, however, the firm operates on a smaller and more local scale. "Our position as a boutique has enabled us to work with groups like restaurateurs and retailers that never felt comfortable coming to larger firms," Mr. Friedman said. These include the Bowery Bar, at East Fourth Street, and several stores in the Upper East Side Historic District and Special Madison Avenue Preservation District, including the new four-story Giorgio Armani building, 760 Madison Avenue, at 65th Street.
On the other end of the retail spectrum are the "big-box" stores of 100,000 square feet or more, like Price/Costco, Home Depot, Kmart, Caldor's, Pathmark and Finast. Since these projects require discretionary approvals and special permits, they have proved to be a staple for a number of land-use lawyers, including Jesse Masyr of Gold & Wachtel.
ONE of the largest projects on Mr. Masyr's plate is a 1-million-square-foot retail development on 122 acres in the Charleston section of Staten Island, for the Breslin Realty Development Corporation and Blumenfeld Development Group. Mr. Masyr, who was Deputy Borough President of Manhattan under Andrew J. Stein, estimated that his business had increased 400 percent since the darkest days of 1990 and 1991.
Sybil H. Pollet of Pollet & Pollet said her business did not suffer, because she represented lenders that had an interest in troubled or difficult developments, like the Chase Manhattan Bank at Riverside South and the European American Bank at Cityspire, 150 West 56th Street.
"My practice frankly boomed in the recession," she said. "The banks during those years were the owners of some of the major projects in the city."
And there was ample work for the little firms and sole practitioners who handled matters as small as one-family dwellings in need of a variance, said Adam W. Rothkrug of Rothkrug & Rothkrug. (His father, Leonard F. Rothkrug, was renowned in the land-use bar for his license plates: "ZONING.")
The 1980's left in their wake any number of proposals that were either fully approved by city agencies or well on their way through the review procedure before being stymied by the recession. Some of these are now being dusted off.
Borrowing the language of Broadway, Robert Davis has dubbed these "revivals," adding that he was "seeing serious expressions of interest."
Raymond H. Levin, a Brown & Wood alumnus now at Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding, also sees potential "revivals," including an office tower on the former site of the Museum of American Folk Art on West 53d Street; apartment towers on the block bounded by First and York Avenues, 60th and 61st Street and Brighton-by-the-Sea, a large residential project on the site of the Brighton Beach Baths in Brooklyn.
Other potential "revivals" include the completion of the 1,000-unit Shorehaven project on the East River in the Bronx and the construction of Rockefeller Plaza West, a 55-story tower proposed on Seventh Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, said Stephen Lefkowitz, a Berle, Kass alumnus who is now at Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts.
There is another kind of revival -- that of older buildings.
"We may well be in an era where we see as much focus on the reuse of existing buildings as on new development," Mr. Sillerman said. A Rosenman associate, Kenneth K. Lowenstein, helped draft the tax incentives enacted last year by the State Legislature to stimulate residential conversion and commercial renovation in downtown Manhattan.
The planned coversion of the landmark Bowling Green Offices, a 98-year-old building at 11 Broadway, is providing work for Robert A. Kandel of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. Mr. Masyr is representing the Rockrose Development Corporation in the proposed conversion of 127 John Street, a 25-year-old office tower. Mark A. Levine, of Sive, Paget & Riesel, is representing the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in the $300 million renovation of 11 Madison Avenue, its 64-year-old North Tower, at 24th Street.
Institutional work has been one of the mainstays for Mr. Davis, who was Parks Commissioner from 1978 to 1983. Among his clients are the American Museum of Natural History, which plans to replace the Hayden Planetarium with a new planetarium; Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, which is considering the construction of a new theater on the 66th Street site of the Chinese Mission, and the New York Public Library, which is looking for tenants to occupy expansion space in the new Science, Industry and Business Library at Madison Avenue and 34th Street.
Although he also has clients like Viacom, which he advised on the sale of Madison Square Garden, Mr. Davis said, "I never had a practice that was primarily representing private developers, so when the recession hit and all building stopped, my life didn't come to an end."
But he can pinpoint the moment that the building boom came to an end -- a snowy day in January 1991, as the United States was preparing to go to war against Iraq. A hotel development group he represented had balked at paying a deposit, subject to forfeiture, for a site at Battery Park City.
"I sat there watching my clients not willing to put $25,000 at risk on a $400 million project," Mr. Davis recalled, "and I thought, 'The world is about to change.' And then, at lunch, when they stuck me with the bill, I knew the world had changed."
Indeed, it had.
"It didn't just slow down -- it shut down," Mr. Lindenbaum said. He was obliged to use his persuasive powers on the Rosenman partners, as he tried to keep the land-use group intact. "I'd assembled an extraordinary team," Mr. Lindenbaum said. "I foresaw that there would be five difficult years and some degree of over-capacity, but when turnaround time came, we'd be in the best position to get into action quickly."
MR. LINDENBAUM, who is 60, was virtually born to the practice of land-use law. His father, Abraham (Bunny) Lindenbaum, was a lawyer whose first retainer came in April 1949 from a Brooklyn builder named Fred C. Trump, who had a two-year-old son, Donald.
The younger Mr. Lindenbaum joined his father's Brooklyn firm, Lindenbaum & Young, in 1962. A new Zoning Resolution was in effect, which had leveled the land-use playing field, since older practitioners had to learn new rules and forget a lot of what they knew.
One of Mr. Lindenbaum's first coups in the 1960's was to persuade the Buildings Commissioner to allow the Tisch family to provide transient parking in garages at their hotels. While the Zoning Resolution said such parking was intended "primarily" for hotel guests and employees, it did not say "exclusively." Therefore, Mr. Lindenbaum argued, it could not be construed as ruling out the use of parking spaces by the general public. In 1974, with his practice growing, Mr. Lindenbaum moved to the Manhattan firm of Rosenman Colin Kaye Petschek Freund & Emil. Howard Alan Zipser came with him from Lindenbaum & Young, forming the nucleus of the Rosenman land-use group.
The rival land-use practice of Tufo & Zuccotti was founded in 1970 as Tufo, Johnston & Zuccotti, by Peter Tufo, Joseph Johnston and Mr. Zuccotti, all of whom had been at Davis, Polk & Wardwell. Mr. Zuccotti stepped away for five years in the mid-70's to serve as a member of the City Planning Commission, then chairman of the commission, then First Deputy Mayor, under Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
(Not surprisingly, the Planning Commission has bred a number of members of the land-use bar, including Donald H. Elliott and Victor Marrero, former chairmen; Martin Gallent, former vice chairman; Gordon Davis and Howard B. Hornstein, former members; Norman Marcus, former counsel to the commission; Robert Davis, former counsel to the chairman and Carol E. Rosenthal, former associate counsel.)
In 1986, Tufo & Zuccotti merged with Brown, Wood, Ivey, Mitchell & Petty and the new practice was named Brown & Wood. "There was a feeling that there was going to be a cross-fertilization," Mr. Levin said. "It never happened. The zoning area had always been on its own. During the late 80's, when business was going like gangbusters, that was overlooked and we operated as a firm within a firm."
Most members of the land-use group left in 1994, a year that also saw the closing of Berle, Kass & Case.
TWENTY-THREE years earlier, over a couple of beers, Albert K. Butzel, Peter A. A. Berle and Stephen L. Kass discussed the dream they once had of forming a small practice devoted substantially to public interest. When one of them asked, "Can anyone think of a reason we shouldn't do that?" nobody answered. The firm of Berle & Butzel was founded in 1971.
The firm sometimes found itself in the position of representing the government -- on the 42d Street redevelopment project -- at the same time it was fighting the government -- on the Westway project.
For all that variety, Robert Davis said, "We were somewhat hampered by not having an active transactional practice, which is required to complement environmental and land-use practice."
Mr. Kass attributed the closing to the fact that lawyers at Berle, Kass "had had their turn doing the mix we had set out to achieve," and were ready to move on to different clients, larger firms or more lucrative practices.
Now at Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, Mr. Kass was among the land-use and environmental lawyers who gathered Feb. 13 at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, 42 West 44th Street, for the group portrait that appears on page 1. "It was a reunion of a club that had never met before," he said. (Those not otherwise mentioned in this article were Elise Wagner of Battle Fowler, Robert S. Cook Jr. of De Forest & Duer and Jeffrey L. Braun, Richard G. Leland and Gary R. Tarnoff of Rosenman & Colin.)
After the portrait was taken, Mr. Hornstein, a partner in Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding, noted that the good old days had their own perils.
He spent the latter part of the 80's working for Ian Bruce Eichner, whose Cityspire project entered civic lore. Because it was built 11 feet taller than permitted, Cityspire's dome had to be partly dismantled while a settlement was reached with the city. Then, the dome emitted a high-pitched sound in the wind that disturbed neighbors for many blocks around.
"I don't have any more whistling buildings and domes that have to be chopped off," Mr. Hornstein reflected. "It's a calmer life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Land-Use Lawyers at the Association of the Bar. Richard G. Leland, Michael T. Sillerman, Robert A. Kandel, Mark A. Levine. Elise Wagner, Stephen Lefkowitz, Martin Gallent, Judith M. Gallent, Howard J. Goldman, Stephen L. Kass. Jeffrey Braun, Gary R. Tarnoff, Robert S. Cook Jr., Sybil H. Pollet, Shelly S. Friedman, Howard B. Hornstein, Gordon J. Davis. Seated: Jesse Masyr, Paul D. Selver, Samuel H. Lindenbaum, Raymond H. Levin, Robert S. Davis. (JIM ESTRIN/The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
John E. Zuccotti, chief executive of Olympia & York, says there was more opportunity in the mid-80's when he was a land-use lawyer. Now, he says, there's more competition. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (84%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (58%); KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (58%); SIVE PAGET & RIESEL PC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; REAL ESTATE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES; ZONING REAL ESTATE (92%); LAWYERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); POLITICS (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W SAMUEL H LINDENBAUM (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



606 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
A Hybrid Pension Plan Gains Ground

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
IT has taken a decade, but the Internal Revenue Service has finally proposed rules on the tax status of a new type of pension plan. Benefit consultants say the proposal is favorable enough to employers that the plans, now offered by about 200 large companies, may become much more popular.
In the few weeks since the I.R.S. proposal was made, dozens of companies have taken steps to adopt these plans. About 6 percent of all workers with a pension are covered by the new plans, and some experts say that will jump to 20 percent by the end of the decade. The most widely used pensions will remain 401(k) plans, which have increased in popularity in the last 20 years. 
 The new plans, often called cash balance pensions, are a hybrid of two older types of plans. Employers like the new plans because they can be inexpensive to finance, but employees may find some disadvantages. The key benefit of the new plans is that they permit employees to take their pensions with them when they change jobs, allowing the money to keep growing in value. But the rate of return is often tied to bonds, and some employees would earn more in another type of pension. Older employees, especially, are cautioned to avoid the new plans.
The cash balance pensions are a long way from the traditional pension plans that generations of Americans have taken into retirement. Under those defined-benefit plans, the pension of a worker who moves to a new job stays put, never growing another penny and steadily losing ground to inflation.
With those plans, employers take on all the investment risk and guarantee an annual benefit upon an employee's retirement; they pay their most generous benefits to workers who spend a lifetime with one company. But that type of employee has become rarer after a decade of layoffs and corporate revamping. It is now estimated that workers will change jobs a half-dozen times in their careers.
Defined-contribution pensions, such as 401(k) plans, were made to solve the problem created by a mobile work force. Under the plans, employers contribute money, usually based on a percentage of pay, to each worker's pension account. In most of these plans, workers invest the money, choosing from several options provided by their employers.
Most importantly, employees typically are allowed to take that money with them when they move to another company. Workers who roll over their pension money can then either put it into an individual retirement account or into their new employers' pension plans.
But the defined-contribution plans create another problem: There is no guaranteed return. Employees, not the employer, take on all the investment risk. While workers who are savvy -- or lucky -- can build fortunes, others invest so cautiously that their pensions will not grow enough to sustain them in old age and a few will even squander the money before retirement.
"Everybody wants to jump on the defined-contribution bandwagon," says Raymond Sharp, an actuary at Buck Consultants. "I think they are very dangerous things. Just wait until we see a bear market," when many people will bail out, locking in their losses.
BENEFIT consultants say that by the end of the decade, 90 percent of all workers with a pension will be in defined-contribution plans, with 30 percent in traditional plans. Many workers will be covered by more than one plan.
The new cash balance pensions take the portability of defined-contribution plans and combine it with the security of defined-benefit plans. Employers guarantee to pay an interest rate, often tied to 30-year Treasury bonds, thus taking the investment risk. And they allow employees to take the money with them if they change jobs. Employees may also leave the money with their former employers, where it continues to earn interest.
Workers who switch jobs four times in a 40-year career can collect 50 percent more money from the cash balance plans than they would after making four moves involving traditional plans, according to Kwasha Lipton, a benefits consultancy in Fort Lee, N.J., which created the first modern cash balance plan in 1984.
Until last month, the I.R.S. had not established guidelines on the new pensions, and benefits consultants say the uncertainty had kept many companies from adopting the plans. But in its recent proposal, the I.R.S. suggested setting requirements on the interest rates that the plans must pay and ordering that interest payments continue if employees who move on to new jobs decide to leave money with the old employers.
And for employers meeting these requirements, the I.R.S. made a key ruling: All the contributions they make into the pensions are tax deductible. The money and the earnings are tax free to employees until the money is withdrawn, usually after retirement. The I.R.S. is expected to give final approval to the rules within the next few months.
 Michael Miller, the former director of worldwide benefits with Borden, helped the company set up such a plan in 1985. Last year, after 16 years with the company, he was forced out during a corporate cutback and experienced the value of the plan firsthand.
When he left the company, Mr. Miller opened an I.R.A. with $10,000 rolled over from his pension, and invested in stocks. Under the rules of his plan, he had to leave the rest of his pension with Borden, where it is earning about 5.6 percent a year. When Mr. Miller, who is 50, turns 55, he can take the balance of his pension and put it into his I.R.A.
"Under the old plan I would have gotten a letter saying, 'Come see us at age 65,' " Mr. Miller said. "I would have had 15 years of deterioration with a frozen benefit, but instead my money will keep growing."
Ameritech, Bell Atlantic, Owens-Corning Fiberglas, the Tennessee Valley Authority and Woolworth have all adopted the new plan within the last few months.
Employers say that the new plans, in addition to being less expensive, can eventually pay for themselves. If a company invests the money and makes, say, 25 percent a year when the stock market is rising, the money left over after making contributions to employees can be used to pay for the contributions in subsequent years.
The new plans can also be financed out of any surplus in traditional pension plans.
Benefits consultants said the plans also eliminate what companies see as a perverse incentive for some employees to stay with a company when changing employers might be smart for both the worker and the company. Under the new plans, workers can typically collect their pension whenever they retire, without having to wait until they are 65.
Bell Atlantic adopted its cash balance plan for nonunion workers last month, after concluding that its traditional defined-benefit plan was not a good value for the company or its workers.
"We did a lot of research," said Gary M. Simko, Bell Atlantic's director of benefits planning, "and we found that the defined-benefit plan was a nonissue in the recruitment process. It was very rare for potential employees to even ask about it."
But the new plan, he said, could be useful in recruitment "because employees could calculate and project its worth to them."
Not everyone is as enamored with the new plans. Karen Ferguson, executive director of the Pension Rights Center, an advocacy organization in Washington, said she believed that workers needed more time to understand who benefits and who loses.
"Originally I was told they were the best of all possible worlds," Ms. Ferguson said. "They do great things for shorter-service workers."
But, she said, "now I am beginning to wonder what the hidden pitfalls are."
ONE is the investment return. Because it is typically based on an I.R.S. interest rate schedule and many companies choose a rate tied to 30-year Treasury bonds, employees do not benefit from a stock market that has historically returned more than bonds. Employees in defined-contribution plans who invested in the stock market would likely have larger retirement benefits than employees in cash balance plans. The trade-off, of course, is that cash balance returns are guaranteed by the employers, while the defined-contribution returns are not.
Another pitfall, for some employees, is that the new plans, like 401(k)'s, tend to favor younger workers.
The eventual retirement benefit that employees receive under the new plans is based on their companies' contributions and the interest rate the companies promised to pay on that money. So the contributions that will earn the most interest are those made early in an employee's career.
Older employees do better under traditional plans. Companies usually pay a percentage of a worker's annual pay during the last three or five years on the job. A worker who spends 40 years with one company often earns half of his pension benefit in the last five years on the job, said John Ehrhardt, an actuary with Milliman & Robertson benefits consultants.
Some companies are setting up transition plans, promising to pay long-term employees at least as much as they would have received under a traditional plan. Such transition rules typically are in effect for 5 or 10 years to protect workers near retirement.
But not all companies offer such transition plans, which can cause resentment among older workers. Ms. Ferguson said the lack of transition rules might also spark lawsuits by veteran employees who believe they are being shortchanged.
"Most companies we see trying to put in cash balance plans are trying to save money," said Ethan E. Kra, chief retirement actuary at William M. Mercer, the nation's largest benefits consulting company, "which means some people will get less, and that will tend to be older workers."
While only about 200 companies have such plans now, all of them are large employers, some with tens of thousands of workers.
Mr. Kra said that "cash balance plans would have been killed if the I.R.S. had gotten its act together right away when they first appeared. But now so many companies have them that the I.R.S. is going to accommodate them."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Three Paths to a Pension" compares the contribution to retirement income of three people who each work for 40 years, changing jobs every 10 years. One has only traditional pension plans, the second only cash balance pension plans, and the third only defined-contribution plans. (Source: Kwasha Lipton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; TAXATION PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



607 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut;
Coping With the Big Headaches 'Big Boxes' Bring

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
DIFFERENT as they are from each other, urban Stamford and semirural Wallingford face the same issue -- what to do about an influx of "big-box" stores that they perceive as threatening their prized community characteristics.
"Unlike some municipalities that try to prohibit 'big boxes,' we welcome them," said John Condlin, chairman of Stamford's Downtown Special Services District, a business improvement organization, referring to the trend toward superstores. "We just don't want the city to allow them into noncommercially zoned areas, drawing away from our downtown retailers and converting much-needed industrial space on the outskirts to commercial." 
 In defining big boxes, Neil Sherman, director of the Stamford Chamber of Commerce, drew distinctions. "Really big boxes like Home Depot, that require loading docks, warehousing and outdoor space, belong near the turnpike," he said. "But 'category killers' like Toys 'R' Us, Staples, Barnes & Noble, should be downtown, maintaining our strong retail core."
It has taken many years for Stamford's local retailers to overcome the powerful competition they faced with the opening of Town Center Mall in 1982, and to reach the current state of peaceful coexistence. But in the small Town of Wallingford, the arms aren't quite so open. David Smith of People for a Better Wallingford, fears that "the proliferation of big-box retailers here is hurting the town."
"They are pulling enormous amounts of traffic through our historic National Register neighborhoods, devaluing the community," he said. He noted that a crossing guard was hit by a car last year at Christian and North Main Street, an intersection near an elementary school and bordering the campus of Choate Rosemary Hall, one of the nation's most prestigious prep schools.
Some 900 students on their way to classes and dormitories criss-cross Elm, North Main, Christian and other streets that have become alternate routes for motorists headed toward the big new stores on Route 5. "We are actually teaching some remedial street-crossing skills to survive the increased traffic," said Charlotte Murphy, a spokeswoman for Choate.
Wallingford is a prime target for regional retailers. Just 12 miles from New Haven and 23 miles from Hartford, with direct access to Interstate 91, Routes 68, 150, 70 and 71 and the Wilbur Cross Parkway, its commercially zoned Route 5 runs through the center of town.
Not everyone supports the campaign to limit growth on Route 5. Fred A. Valenti, who owns Valenti Auto Sales, said "Wallingford is growing, building a lot of new homes on the east side -- that's where the traffic is coming from. They have to come downtown to shop." Indeed, planning department figures show 583 single-family homes and 541 multifamily units have been built since 1991.
Like some other auto dealers in town, Mr. Valenti owns land on Route 5 that is available for development. "Kmart and Wal-Mart had enough faith in Wallingford to spend $15 million apiece on new stores where they will employ 300 people each," he noted. "Free enterprise built the country. I think that's what we need."
But even real estate agents are divided on the issue. Lucille Trzcinski, a local realtor, said she regretted that "we did not have the foresight to follow a mayor's committee report five years ago that could have resulted in keeping the stores out."
"People have to look to the long term," she said. "If we let Route 5 become unmanageable, homes that are still on it, and the centuries-old houses on Christian, North and High Streets, will decline in value or become worthless."
Both Wallingford and Stamford are trying to stanch or at least direct the tide of mammoth retailing. Stamford's planning commission will hold a public hearing on March 17 to scrutinize proposed changes to its master plan, recommended in a study by Farandino Associates of Elmsford, N.Y. Under consideration will be a category for large sites near Connecticut Turnpike interchanges where big-box stores could locate, but only if 50 percent of the sites are maintained for industrial development.
Wallingford's planning commission passed an interim regulation in November stating that any development that generates 100 or more peak-hour vehicle trips a day cannot submit plans until September -- in effect, a moratorium on big-box stores.
O N March 4, a controversial application by Shaw's Supermarket that predates the moratorium will seek approval at a public hearing to build a total of 115,146 square feet of retail space on an 11.45-acre Route 5 parcel, including its 69,406-square-foot-store.
"Wallingford is approaching saturation," said William Kane, a partner at Wellspeak, Dugas & Kane, real estate consultants and appraisers in Cheshire. Mr. Kane believes that the retail property market is saturated throughout much of the state.
Last month a Super Kmart and a Wal-Mart opened on Route 5, covering a total of 300,637 square feet on 28.9 acres. An existing Kmart, Bradlees, Caldor, Super Stop & Shop, Marshall's, Staples, and other stores make up an additional 582,033 square feet on a total of 65.2 acres. "Not all will survive," Mr. Kane said. "Caldor and Bradlees are in Chapter 11, and there's just not enough population to support them." Wallingford's population is 42,860, but the stores draw from surrounding towns as well.
A two-part study of traffic and land use in Wallingford by Milone & MacBroom of Cheshire and Harrall-Michalowski Associates of Hamden will soon be released. Linda Bush, the Wallingford town planner, said, though, that some of its findings for Route 5, where an added 102 acres are ripe for development, suggest that part of the road south of North Street would have to be widened from two to six lanes, and that the current 35 percent land coverage should be reduced to 10 percent.
Stamford, on the other hand, "is not over-stored," said Mr. Kane. "The city has few large sites appropriate for big boxes, and anyone interested in building one is looking at over $1 million an acre."
"A few years ago," said Robin Stein, Stamford's planning director, "nobody wanted big-box stores downtown, but they are going into cities now with a modified, upscale approach." He received the first application relating to big-box stores three weeks ago. Heymann Properties, which owns the former Yale & Towne Lock Company complex on Canal Street between Exit 7 and 8 of Interstate 95, wants to amend the zoning regulations to redevelop the property with a big-box store. It is in a mixed-use zone and does not require a change in the master plan to become a big-box location.
The master plan changes would apply directly to two industrial-zoned sites off Exit 6 of I-95: 30 acres on Commerce Road and the 35-acre former American Cyanamid property, now called Cytec. If the changes are enacted, "there will be some unhappiness among developers who will not be able to sell or lease 100 percent of their property to big boxes," Mr. Sherman said.
The inevitable increase in traffic that more retail would bring to downtown Stamford, which is already clogged during the day and strangled at rush hours, is thought to be surmountable, Mr. Sherman said, with more on-street parking and retail incentives for a new parking garage.
"If you want successful retail you've got to have traffic -- that's the good news/bad news," said Edward Stockton, the former state Commissioner of Economic Development who now heads the Stockton Associates economic consultancy in Bloomfield. But with the state's population dwindling and worries about unemployment rising, he warns that retailers should pay close attention to supply and demand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: North Main Street and street bordering Choate Rosemary Hall campus in Wallingford. Super Kmart-bound traffic is heavy. Wallingford streets in historic district bordering Choate Rosemary Hall campus are alternate routes to big boxes like Super Kmart. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOY (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (56%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; WALLINGFORD (CONN); STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



608 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Brokerage Employment;
In Recruiting, Seasoning Now Comes Before Youth

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
IN the early 1980's, when Sholom & Zuckerbrot was opening real estate offices all over New York, it hired scads of youngsters fresh from college. The idea was that they would cut their teeth on cold calls and other necessary but not particularly remunerative work and in the process learn to be brokers.
Wrong. "We'd devote tremendous time and expense to teaching them, yet we'd lose most of them within a year," said Sanford H. Zuckerbrot, president of the firm, which is based in Long Island City, Queens. 
 Now, Sholom & Zuckerbrot hires people who are looking to switch careers, who have extensive business experience and contacts and who have enough cash to get them through the requisite lean years. At first, the newcomers show property, handle paperwork and do other scut work for the senior brokers, in return for a small part of the deal. If they demonstrate ability, they become full-fledged brokers after two or three years.
"The young people are testing the waters, but these older people come ready to make a commitment," Mr. Zuckerbrot said.
That is no isolated view. With the recessionary doldrums fading, many real estate firms are hiring again. But few have returned to the more-the-merrier approach of the booming 1980's, when entry-level broker's jobs were easy to fill and to find. Now, many are eschewing greenhorns.
"I will hire someone who does not have real estate skills, but today there's no room for brokers who don't have analytical skills," said Bruce E. Mosler, vice chairman of The Galbreath Company.
Benjamin Fox, a partner in the New Spectrum store brokerage, which has stopped hiring youngsters, explained. "It's just too difficult to figure out on paper whether someone has what it takes to be a good broker," he said. "Every hour taken to train someone for brokerage is an hour taken away from transactions, and you can't tell in advance if that hour will ever be worth it."
Of course, that has always been true. What has changed, real estate experts say, is that deals have grown longer and more complex, and commissions must be spread among a larger number of teammates.
Both developments are turnoffs to young people, many of whom, their elders say, still seem to expect to tap into the free-flowing money of a decade ago.
When Dan Gronich began building Gronich & Company some 20 years ago, he routinely hired brokers out of college, and paid them nothing until they did a deal. "They viewed this as graduate school," Mr. Gronich recalled. "And, usually, they could make their first deal after six months."
NOW Mr. Gronich is head of Grubb & Ellis New York, and he is primarily hiring experienced entrepreneurs -- he recently hired someone who ran an automobile dealership -- who are used to fluctuating incomes.
Mr. Gronich brings a stream of experts in to teach real estate classes a few times a week.
"Today's kids have a lot of difficulty living in New York without cash," he said. "And while you still can make a lot of money in real estate, in the short run there's not a lot to show for your work if you're new."
Those companies that do still hire youngsters rarely put them on a broker's track. LaSalle Partners confines its college recruits to a three-year program, where they get a crash course in the rudiments of real estate, and then are assigned to crunching numbers and other support functions.
"We no longer think of this as leading to a career here," said Robert C. Spoerri, LaSalle's chief operating officer. The young employees, he added, "are useful while they are here, but we know they are just trying to get enough experience to get into a good business school."
Other firms are confining their gambles on tyros to suburbia. The Edward S. Gordon Company, for one, stopped hiring inexperienced people in Manhattan about five years ago, but still welcomes them in Westchester and New Jersey. In Westchester, they first spend six months in market research, on a small salary, generating data that other brokers can use.
In New Jersey, an older office whose data bases of primarily industrial space are up to date, newcomers to the firm live on a small draw against commission and are immediately assigned to mentors.
"It's easier to train young people in a smaller office, where the senior people are less concerned about taking the time, and where costs of living are lower," said Joseph R. Harbert, a senior managing director in charge of human resources.
Still, Mr. Harbert readily admits that brokers trained in the more genteel atmosphere of suburbia rarely can transfer their skills and attitudes to Manhattan. So, if training programs like LaSalle's do not yield brokers, and if suburban trainees stay put, where is the next generation of New York City brokers going to come from?
The answer seems to be, from other industries entirely.
Galbreath, for one, raids accounting firms for its newest people, and has budgeted a hefty amount this year for "Dan Galbreath University," a formal program to train its new employees -- and retrain more than a few veterans -- on sales and financial analysis techniques.
CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD has a 12-month career-development program in which people with, say, five years of unrelated business experience -- preferably in sales -- take courses, rotate through various different disciplines, learn to canvas for clients, and work on special projects.
"People who know they want a career in real estate really benefit from this kind of highly structured training," said Kenneth Krasnow, the firm's director of business development.
"It doesn't work as well for a youngster who says, 'I want a job now and later I'll decide what to do with my life.' "
It certainly does work well for Cushman & Wakefield's existing staff: Since June, the trainees set up more than 50 meetings for seasoned brokers with potential new clients, and added data on some 125 buildings and about 1,500 tenants into the firm's data base.
AT other companies, particularly plush welcome mats are being rolled out for would-be brokers who demonstrate a knowledge of an industry from which the brokerage firm draws its most lucrative accounts.
Garrick-Aug, a retail brokerage, has been hiring people who were laid off from high-level retail jobs.
"They may never have been brokers, but they certainly understand the client's real-estate needs," said Peter Botsaris, Garrick-Aug's president.
Similarly, Colliers ABR recently hired Wendy Miller, who had been working in the development office of Georgetown University, to work on the Colliers team servicing Teachers Insurance, an important Colliers client that deals with many universities. The theory is that her experience in fund-raising gave her a thick enough hide to handle the inevitable rejections a broker faces, and her college background would help her communicate with the Teachers executives.
"We can teach real estate, but we can't teach the ability to identify with a client," said Robert L. Billingsley, Colliers ABR's executive vice president.
Of course, some firms do continue to hire novices. The Julien J. Studley brokerage just resumed recruiting on college campuses. It will put newcomers on a salary -- no more than $40,000, often less -- for a year while they learn the ropes from a senior broker.
"Young people bring an energy and enthusiasm that is always of benefit," said Julien J. Studley, the firm's head.
Williams Real Estate is looking to experienced people to manage its growing staff -- "Managerial skills is my hot button this year," Michael T. Cohen, Williams' president, said -- but it still generally keeps 15 or 20 inexperienced people on the broker track.
"I ask college people for anecdotes that show they are good salespeople," said Mr. Cohen. "The guy who organized a student strike in high school probably has a saleserson's powers of persuasion."
OTHER firms figure that, even if the attrition rate is high, the data that trainees gather or the clients they turn up will, as they do at Cushman & Wakefield, offset part of the costs of having them on staff.
The Peter R. Friedman firm has a training program in which fledglings spend about 20 percent of their time in class, and the rest of the time canvassing for leads. If a lead pans out, the trainee joins the team assigned to follow up, then usually rejoins the training pool when the deal is done.
The trainees get a draw against commission, but it is small. "The goal is to keep everyone hungry so they are focused on learning and bringing in business," said Jeffrey M. Sussman, director of leasing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julien J. Studley (left, with beard) (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) says college recruits like Dennis Perkins bring enthusiasm to job. But Sanford H. Zuckerbrot says most are lost within a year. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GBE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHOLOM & ZUCKERBROT; STUDLEY, JULIAN J, CO GRUBB & ELLIS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHOLOM & ZUCKERBROT; STUDLEY, JULIAN J, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HIRING AND PROMOTION REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H DAN GRONICH (71%); JOSEPH R HARBERT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



609 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Floating in Limbo

BYLINE: By MARK FRANCIS COHEN 

 BODY:
CAPT. SRETO PETROVIC'S hands are stuffed into the pockets of his brown sports coat, and, standing on the deck of his cargo vessel docked at Red Hook, he looks cold. His face is covered with a lively brown shrub of facial hair and his eyes seem tired even though he hasn't done much of anything today.
"It's better here," the 43-year-old seafarer says. "We are not on duty. We are usually in our cabins or the television room." 
 There is not a lot to do on his ship, the Lovcen. When the vessel set off from the former Yugoslavia in 1992, it was on a simple mission to New York to pick up lumber. Now, that seemingly mundane task has left the crew stranded, a casualty of an international political quagmire.
The Lovcen (pronounced LUV-sen) was seized by the United States Treasury Department after it sailed into New York Harbor on Aug. 3, 1992, under economic sanctions against the Yugoslav Federation republics of Serbia and Montenegro. While most of the crew of about 20 were reassigned by the ship's owner, Captain Petrovic and a skeleton crew of six stayed aboard to maintain the 490-foot cargo vessel, where they have remained ever since. Technically, only the ship, not the crew members, is under arrest, but the crewmen are effectively confined because they have no visas.
When they are not tending to their undemanding responsibilities of maintaining the engine, updating navigational charts or monitoring the radar aboard the deteriorating ship, the crewmen spend most of their time holed up in a musty cabin watching television or sleeping. Sometimes they risk violating immigration law by slipping into Brooklyn to shop or see a movie. Often, they wait for visitors.
"They were bored, frustrated, angry, confused and impatient," said the Rev. Jean R. Smith of the Seamen's Church Institute, who has been visiting the crew regularly for more than three years. Unpaid for months at a time and faced with broken septic systems and failing equipment, they were quickly faced with sagging spirits, she said.
"These were people who were hired to do a job and weren't able to do it," said Ms. Smith, who is a Port of New York chaplain "The crew knew how to live and spend their lives as seamen. And they couldn't."
The crew members especially look forward to the weekly visit of Peter Renehan, the American representative of Milena Ship Management, a Montenegran company that owns the Lovcen. Mr. Renehan delivers supplies and takes orders for his next visit, but what excites the men most is his cellular phone. With it, they call their wives in Montenegro.
One of the sailors, Rajko Jelic sits cross-legged in front of the Lovcen's radio system, chain-smoking L & M cigarettes. He said he had not seen his wife and 4-year-old son for three years. He sounded more like a prisoner than a sailor when describing corralled life on the Lovcen.
"For small times, I go to Brooklyn and Manhattan," he said. "I used to take the small boat to Staten Island and take a ferry into Manhattan. Now, it is easier to go into town. It is O.K. New York is beautiful. Brooklyn beautiful."
Mr. Renehan said five of Milena's ships, including the Lovcen, had been seized in ports around the United States. Milena has lost millions, and the financial troubles of the company, a vital economic entity in Montenegro, have rattled the Serb-dominated country, he said.
He said he admired the men aboard the Lovcen, who could have abandoned the ship long ago for a better life. "They never complain," he said, descending the gangplank to the Red Hook pier. "They do show a tremendous amount of loyalty to their owners, their country and pride in their vessel. This is their job. If they had the option to leave, they wouldn't."
But they do not have the option to leave because, although the Clinton Administration lifted the economic sanctions in December, the Treasury Department will not release the vessel until Milena Ship Management repays American creditors. In addition, the ship has fallen into disrepair and could not make a trans-Atlantic voyage.
Before the Lovcen docked in Red Hook last July, it languished in the Bay Ridge Anchorage Flats, designated anchoring waters near Brooklyn. Visitors would sidle boats up to the gangplank to offer the men meals and magazines. If the crew wanted to reach land, they would use a launch to putter to Staten Island. After the ship was deemed a hazard to navigation, the Coast Guard petitioned the Treasury Department to allow the vessel to move to the Erie Basin off Red Hook, said Comdr. John O'Brien of the Coast Guard.
"We were getting a lot of complaints that this was an accident waiting to happen," said Commander O'Brien, the chief of port safety for the Port of New York. "When it was on anchorage, they had to keep the vessel operating. Alongside a pier, it's not a problem anymore."
Today, the gray-and-white Lovcen is a rusting craft. Tattered plastic shopping bags, broomsticks and a broken lawn chair lie on the deck. Though the ship's auxiliary engine keeps running with an even hum, the main engine cannot run for long periods. And with the touch of a hand or step of a foot, paint chips and rusting lead crackle to the floor.
Down in the television room, a crew member, Vasilije Zelalic, 55, is watching Maury Povich's show. The curtains are drawn. Like Mr. Jelic, he continually clutches a cigarette and relies on a steady diet of heady coffee. "I like watching soccer, N.B.A. basketball, and some good movies like horror and action," he says, turning the sound down. "Every day there's something to do. I relax myself. I watch television. I read books."
But later, he is brooding. "We wait to sail from here as soon as possible," he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Aboard the ill-fated Lovcen, Capt. Sreto Petrovic, Nikolic Milorad, the chief cook, and Krivokapic Nenad, the second engineer.
Photo/Chart/Map: "SHIPPING NEWS: The Odyssey of the Lovcen" Lists some significant dates for the ship.
 Map of New York City showing the location of Erie Basin. (United States Coast Guard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MILENA SHIP MANAGEMENT MILENA SHIP MANAGEMENT (78%); US COAST GUARD (59%); US COAST GUARD (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILENA SHIP MANAGEMENT US COAST GUARD (59%); US COAST GUARD (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LOVCEN (SHIP); EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); SMOKING (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); IMMIGRATION LAW (50%); ARRESTS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: PETROVIC, SRETO (CAPT); COHEN, MARK FRANCIS O K NEW YORK (65%); PETER RENEHAN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



610 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobles 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Kia Sportage and Kia Sephia;
2 Tigers, at Least on Paper

BYLINE: By DAN NEIL 

 BODY:
IN America, where the phrase "Korean car" inspires the same sort of consumer confidence as the words "Albanian software" or "Canadian football," Kia's entry into the market has been inauspicious.
But setting aside the 1994 debut of the first, not-ready-for-prime-time Sephia, and this year's aborted entry of the 1996 Sportage -- just as the mini-sport utility craze caught on -- Kia's products carry prices that tempt the most skeptical American shoppers. With so few low-budget new cars, even skepticism must yield to arithmetic. 
 The Sephia was renovated last year to include a larger engine, a 1.8-liter four-cylinder that produces 122 horsepower (Californians can opt for a 1.6-liter, 105-horsepower version), dual air bags and other mechanical and esthetic improvements.
The test car was the midline Sephia LS, complete with standard features like a four-speed automatic transmission, power steering and brakes, 14-inch tires and dual remote outside mirrors. Options included air-conditioning, floor mats and stereo cassette player, for a bottom line of $12,695.
That price makes the Sephia LS a serious contender in the window sticker derby. In fact, its few head-to-head competitors include its Korean cousin, the Accent from Hyundai -- a brand that also wears its J. D. Power ratings albatross-style.
If the Sephia's price tag coaxes you into the driver's seat, you'll find a snoozy, generic interior in the fashion of many Asian economy cars. The seats are firm and shallow, and on long trips one's backside becomes sharply aware of the seat frame. The cockpit works well, except that the radio controls are munchkin-sized and the cup holder, ashtray and gearshift lever interfere with one another when deployed.
Reviews of last year's Sephia raked the car for poor workmanship and ugly materials, but Kia seems to have addressed those problems in the main. The seams lined up and the plastics and vinyls were compatible.
The performance of the Sephia is its strong suit, quite above the curve of expectations for the thrift-car class. Its 117 foot-pounds of torque flings the 2,500-pound sedan crisply into action, and the car acquits itself nicely in passing lanes and on freeway on-ramps. The independent suspension, tuned by Lotus, dishes up fair doses of firm, controlled response without sacrificing ride quality. This year's 14-inch wheels, up from 13, lay a smooth, grippy foundation under the 97-inch wheelbase. All things considered, the Sephia is a fun bit of commuter fluff.
The car also got a nose job and a fanny tuck, so it presents a smoother, more aerodynamic profile. Even so, the Sephia's styling electricity wouldn't draw a moth in May. Of course, buyers of entry-level sedans are not shopping for matinee idols.

 
 The Sportage, on the other hand, has great curb appeal. Its high, rounded shape and cute derriere bring out the curiosity seekers in any parking lot. Think of it this way: If you carved a Toyota Land Cruiser out of soap, after two dozen showers it would look like the Sportage.
While compact, this is no mini-ute. Its wheelbase, at 104.3 inches, is 1.6 inches shorter than a Grand Cherokee's and the Sportage is wider than the Isuzu Rodeo or Toyota 4Runner. Inside, it has plenty of room and great sight lines in every direction except out the back window (where the headrests and the spare-tire carrier block the view). It just looks smaller than it is.
And it lives smaller than it is, by virtue of small infelicities in interior design. For example, the power window buttons on the door are flush-mounted and hard to find; the gearshift pokes out of a chintzy gray-vinyl sleeve; the ashtray is concealed behind the gearshift; the rear door armrests prevent the seat backs from lying flat; the roof liner is playing-card thin, and the cup holders in the back of the console are no help to drivers without double-jointed shoulders.
The Sportage has fit-and-finish issues to deal with, too. The upholstery in the test model was crudely fastened with staples.
But the Sportage has lots to like as well. On the road, it's a surprisingly docile and manageable four-wheeler, smooth and stable on top of its MacPherson strut front and coil-sprung rear suspension, and it strides robustly on its thick ladder chassis. Its 1.8-liter dual-overhead-cam engine, a 130-horsepower affair derived from a Mazda design, is gritty for off-road use. But it complains loudly when pushed into the wind.
Kia's five-speed manual pairs nicely with the engine, but an automatic transmission is available on four-wheel-drive models for an extra $1,000. The Sportage 4-by-4 has a shift-on-the-fly transfer case that provides an extra-low gear range for extreme conditions. Rear anti-lock brakes are standard. A rear-wheel limited-slip differential is available on the fancier Sportage EX. And for 1996 -- when and if the '96 model arrives -- the Sportage will have a driver's side air bag and can be fitted with dealer-installed front locking hubs.
Best of all, the Sportage is cheap. The test vehicle, a '95 EX with a manual transmission and options like air-conditioning, stereo and roof rack, rolled out for $18,475. This in a market where most sport utilities you can live with start at $20,000 and keep going.
For all of its extras, the Sportage's best bit of equipment may be the piece of paper in the window.
INSIDE TRACK: What Kias lack in polish -- plenty -- they make up for in price.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The '96 Kia Sportage has been delayed; the Sephia has flaws, but performs well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIA MOTORS CORP KIA MOTORS CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIA MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: NEIL, DAN KIA SEPHIA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



611 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLATIRON / CHELSEA;
Flatiron Unites to Fight Clubs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Ten years ago the neighborhood did not even have an established name. The Flatiron District has come a long way since then, attracting loft dwellers, design firms, shops, clubs and restaurants. Now the area is beginning to come of age politically as new civic groups strive to deal with the growing pains that have accompanied the growth.
Concern over the neighborhood's burgeoning bar and club scene has been the prime catalyst. Residents, block association members and merchants have complained about the noise, filth and violence associated with clubs at meeting after meeting of Community Board 5. On Feb. 15, they incorporated as the Flatiron Alliance to protest the clubs in a more organized fashion. 
 "This is not a disco zone," said Michele Golden, the alliance's vice president. "We're just overloaded. We're talking about security and physical violence, not just noise. The situation is so bad we had to make an official alliance of the block associations. We formed together as a mass to push our weight around."
The members of the alliance have traversed the city directory in search of help. They have written to the Mayor, met elected officials and lobbied city and state agencies. And, this being part of an area sometimes called Silicon Alley, they have put the fax number of every local official they can think of on a Flatiron Alliance homepage on the Internet.
One of the most dangerous clubs, the alliance says, is Club Vertigo, a dance club on 20th Street between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas. Laura Michaels, president of the Flatiron Alliance, said there have been several shootings and a slashing at Club Vertigo in the last six months.
Lee Gounardes, the club's manager, said he employs 24 security guards who search every patron. "Vertigo is one of the safest clubs in the city," he said. . "This is about economics, race and politics. They don't want blacks and Hispanics on the block. They're worried about property values."
Ms. Michaels said that the alliance does not care what kind of businesses operate in the area as along as they are clean, safe and quiet. A more cooperative club, she said, is the Limelight, just down the street. Ms. Michaels said that the Limelight stepped up block patrols, planted new shrubbery, agreed to turn down the music and opened their courtyard to the public.
Ms. Michaels placed a color map on the alliance's Internet home page listing 73 cabarets, bars and restaurants from 16th to 23d Streets between Seventh Avenue and Park Avenue South. Now she and other members are upset about Splash, a gay bar on 17th Street that has asked the city's Board of Standards and Appeals for a permit to allow dancing.
"You can't allow another cabaret in this area if you can't control the clubs that are here now," Ms. Michaels said.
Fredrick A. Becker, the lawyer representing Splash, said: "We understand the community's concerns, but this is not the opening of the floodgates. These types of uses are permitted in the district."
The nightclub crowds are the downside of the neighborhood's popularity. "Sometimes," said Ms. Golden, "I wish we had stayed undiscovered." MICHAEL COOPER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FLATIRON ALLIANCE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLATIRON ALLIANCE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLATIRON DISTRICT (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); NOISE POLLUTION (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL LAURA MICHAELS (91%); MICHELE GOLDEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



612 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE;
Daily News Missed by Old Haunts

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The steel-case letters above the time-and-temperature sign still read "Daily News." But no reporters write about "Mob Bigs" from East 42d Street anymore. And they don't order take-out lunch from the Lantern, or buy flowers from the Alisan Florist, or unwind with a mug at Donahue's Bar and Restaurant, "home of the coldest draft beer in New York City."
Last May, The Daily News moved out of its landmark Art Deco skyscraper, taking its last 500 employees two miles across town to a modern skyscraper on 33d Street and Tenth Avenue, facing a windy expanse of auto repair shops and the John D. Caemmerer West Side Storage Yard Complex, where the Long Island Rail Road keeps some of its trains. 
 No one has replaced The News yet. The old neighborhood has long suffered one of the city's highest vacancy rates because many buildings lack the wiring and other requirements for computers, a reason cited by The News for moving.
Rents have remained stable, both in the Daily News' old neighborhood and current neighborhood. But at least some small businesses around East 42d Street did see a big drop in their economic fortunes, the latest setback for the neighborhood after other nearby big companies, like Mobil, downsized their work force.
One immediate casualty was Maguire's Cafe, a 125-seat restaurant and bar across the corner of Second Avenue and 42d Street from the old News building and next door to Ryan McFadden's, a 15-year-old bar that was a favorite of reporters and editors.
Maguire's closed shortly after Christmas. "It wasn't just The News that shut us down, but it sure didn't help," said Louis Maguire, owner of Maguire's and one of Ryan McFadden's three owners.
Business also dropped sharply at Donahue's, an 80-seat Irish bar and restaurant a block south on Second Avenue. With the News around, Brian Maguire, the owner, who isn't related to Louis, said he had as many as 125 regular customers, "the ones who pay the rent." Now, the number may have dropped to as few as 50.
"The News people were great customers," Mr. Maguire said. They had other sterling qualities, too. "You could also call them up to help settle bar bets," brain-busting questions usually involving sports.
Not just bars were hurt. Angelo Katsanos, manager of the Lantern coffee shop, figures he has lost $400 a day. "They ordered a lot of lasagna," he said.
If the tabloid's move drained business from its old East Side neighbors, the exodus did little to bring new life to the desolate West Side neighborhood that seemed to be stirring in 1994 before the paper's move.
The expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which would have been an important stimulus, is postponed. Olympia & York, the giant Canadian real estate developer, declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy last year and never built two skyscrapers planned at 34th Street and Ninth Avenue. The land will go to major creditors.
But O'Farrell's, the Irish bar across 10th Avenue and 33d Street from The News's new headquarters, does see a lot of reporters and editors.
Larry Sutton, a veteran reporter at The News, said most people eat at their desks or grab a quick lunch at the featureless delicatessen in the ground floor of the building. "It's a lot like living in a suburban office mall," he said. "We're prisoners of the building." ANTHONY RAMIREZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; MAGUIRE'S CAFE LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); MAGUIRE'S CAFE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; MAGUIRE'S CAFE MAGUIRE'S CAFE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; RESTAURANTS; BARS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS RESTAURANTS (92%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FLORISTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RELOCATIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); BEER & ALE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (69%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY LOUIS MAGUIRE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



613 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: The Koreans Are Coming! (But Where Are They Going?)

BYLINE: By DAN NEIL 

 BODY:
THE South Korean auto maker Kia -- rhymes with Pia, as in Zadora -- opened 35 dealerships this month in Florida, a state already sagging into the Caribbean from the weight of new-car lots.
But a crowded market doesn't seem to bother Kia as it continues its region-by-region march on the United States. The Florida dealerships will join 140 Kia kiosks the company has opened in the West and South in the last two years, a period in which Kia Motors America went from zero sales to 25,000 annually. By the end of 1997, the purveyors of the econo-sedan Sephia -- rhymes with Kia -- and the perky Sportage sport utility expect to have 550 dealers seeded throughout United States. 
 Kia is here. Get used to it.
The company's growth projection calls to mind the ambitions of other tricky-to-pronounce companies like Mitsubishi and Suzuki. Can Korean car companies like Kia -- and two that are coming soon, Samsung and Daewoo, neither of which rhyme with anything -- swamp the United States market as the Japanese did a generation ago?
Probably not, said Greg Warner, executive vice president of Kia Motors America. There are many more competitors now and more technological parity. Korea doesn't enjoy the labor cost advantage that Japan had in the 1970's. Nor does it have Japan's immense production capacity. Besides, Mr. Warner said: "There was a period of incredible weakness on the part of American manufacturers that just doesn't exist today. There are no opportunities to bulldoze 25 percent of the American market."
Mr. Warner can tell you all about it. The former head of Hyundai Motor America, he presided over that company's roller-coaster fortunes in the late 1980's. Hyundai, a South Korean industrial giant, entered the American car market in 1986, ambitiously -- some might say even arrogantly -- ready to duplicate Japanese companies' success. Hyundai's sales of 168,882 units in 1986 set a record for an importer's first year.
Then increased competition, poor quality and rock-bottom satisfaction ratings caught up with Hyundai. Sales tumbled from a high of 264,282 in 1988 to 107,378 in 1995.
Hyundai's experience, Mr. Warner said, shaped Kia's strategy of doing a slow march across America. "The greatest single problem would be selling too many cars too rapidly without being prepared to support them by the parent company," he said.
Company officials admit that Kia rushed in in 1994. Their first, callow Sephia had no air bag and a rude 1.6-liter single-overhead-cam engine, and it earned Kia a dead-last ranking in the 1995 J. D. Power Initial Quality Survey of new owners. The first Sportages, though well received, arrived in 1995 with a single-cam engine, no air bag, a manual transmission only and no two-wheel-drive alternative.
Worse yet, the company announced in December that production of the Sportage would be delayed for re-engineering of a new air bag system, leaving product-hungry dealers in the lurch. Those dealers may well wonder if they can bank on Kia's promises to expand the product line; the two-seat KMS-II sports car and midsize Credos sedan are all but pledged to reach the United States within a couple of years.
"It will be interesting to see how they fare," said Bill Wolf, who is now the president of Hyundai Motor America. And he has more than a passing interest in his rival's fortunes. If Kia fails, he said, "it could tarnish other Korean manufacturers."
Those others include the industrial heavyweights Daewoo (pronounced DAY-ew) and Samsung, which also have grandiose plans to wrestle in the American ring.
Daewoo is a world automotive power, No. 52 on Fortune's list of the world's 500 largest corporations, with the capacity -- spread from Uzbekistan to the Philippines -- to build 700,000 vehicles a year. Under its chairman, Kim Woo Choong, the company is pursuing a frantic global strategy. Daewoo will spend $11 billion by 2000 to raise production to two million units for a staggering worldwide sales level of $134 billion.
Part of the plan is to enter the American market by next year with three cars. But that seems unlikely, given that Daewoo has yet to secure an American top executive and has not even established a field staff. Compare that with Kia's methodical entry, five years in the making.
No less ambitious are the plans of Samsung. It recently said it would invest $13 billion to become one of the world's top 10 auto makers by 2010. Samsung plans to enter the United States market in 2001. In December, it hired a former Honda product planning manager, Matt Lewis, as the American car division's top executive. It has also acquired a design studio in California and opened a research office in Detroit.
The kicker? Samsung, a world leader in electronics, has never built cars before.
All of which raises the question, Why are the Koreans in such a rush to get into America? The answer may have less to do with sales figures than with national pride.
"It's the prestige of the American market," Mr. Wolf of Hyundai said. "Everybody wants to be here. It's the toughest market in the world, and the perception is that if you're not here, you're not a player."
And Seung Hwar Oh, Samsung's public relations manager, said: "We are the sixth-largest car-making country. We want to be the No. 1 country in each field we enter. It's a matter of national pride."
It is also a matter of national ambition. The Korean industry is highly regulated; companies need Government approval to get in. Last year, Seoul approved Samsung's application to become the country's fifth car maker, after Hyundai, Kia, Daewoo and Ssangyong (no rhymes, alas, for the maker of jeeplike vehicles). The goal? To fulfill the predictions of the Korea Development Bank that by 2005 the country will be the world's fourth-largest car maker, after the United States, Japan and Germany.
In Seoul's global vision, the road to the future goes right through the United States. Get used to it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The KMS-II, a roadster based on the Lotus Elan, will have a Kia engine. Kia may import it as a '99 model. (Kia Motors America)
 
Table: "Made in Korea, Sold in America" lists six cars manufactured in Korea and sold in the United States. Table provides the following information with regard to each car: type of vehicle, body style, base engine, mileage, and price range.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (85%); HYUD (LSE) (85%); 005380 (KSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (85%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KIA MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI CORP HYUNDAI CORP (85%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (85%); KIA MOTORS AMERICA INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIA MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); JAPAN (90%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); RANKINGS (60%); 

PERSON: NEIL, DAN GREG WARNER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



614 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE DESK OF: VALERIE FOLEY;
No Credit Where It Is Due

BYLINE: By VALERIE FOLEY; Valerie Foley is a bilingual secretary in Manhattan at the law firm of Graham & James.

 BODY:
IF there is any other woman on the face of the planet who has ever had an income exceeding the old standard of $1,000 for each year of age, more than a year's salary in savings and an excess of $10,000 in material assets with no outstanding debt since 1980, but was still unable to get a bank to trust her with a credit card, I would like to meet her to commiserate.
In 1977, I did get a credit card at a department store where I worked. For purchases elsewhere, I relied on my husband's Mastercharge (the predecessor to Mastercard), which he had received unsolicited during the early heady days of charge-card expansion. 
 My credit problem really seems to date back to 1981, when my husband and I accepted teaching jobs in Japan. Mastercharge was valid there, but bills had to be paid in United States dollars. Because we were paid in yen, converting money on a monthly basis was a nuisance, and we decided to use the dollar-based card only on rare forays to the United States.
We then applied for a card in the local currency, but to our surprise we found that this option was not available to noncitizens. We therefore learned to live frugally and developed a thriving cash economy.
It wasn't until my husband and I divorced, and I returned to the United States alone, that I began to pay the price of self-sufficiency. The 10-plus years we spent abroad were enough for my solid, if brief, credit record to be expunged, but Merrill Lynch, with whom I had had a banking relationship for five years, furnished me with a debit card.
Because I was temporarily unemployed, I didn't even think to ask for a credit card.
When I found work, I began furnishing my new apartment, and sales clerks petitioned me to open store accounts. Knowing that this was a first step toward establishing credit, I obliged happily. It was only after repeated rejections (for credit never exceeding $300) that I learned that in the eyes of the credit services I did not exist -- partly because Merrill did not make its clients' records public, but also because neither solvency nor debit-card use had the least bearing on whether I could be trusted to pay for a $300 armchair over three months.
I was content to continue with my cash economy until one day when, without warning, Merrill Lynch closed my international account to convert it to a domestic account. The procedure almost completely blocked my cash flow for more than three weeks.
Vengeful as a spurned lover, I withdrew everything and sought solace in the arms of other banks, although I knew I would lose my debit card. Citibank alone assured me both immediate access to my money and a credit card, so I opened my new account there, only to receive yet another rejection letter two weeks later.
It was suggested that I sign up for Citibank's secured card, whereby an 18-month certificate of deposit for the desired amount of credit is purchased, serving in effect as hostage in the case of nonpayment. This seemed a reasonable solution until I learned that, in addition to an uncompetitive interest rate, there was a $20 fee for the card, regardless of how much money the customer might have in other accounts there.
On the advice of a gentleman at Republic Bank, I then made several credit card inquiries at local banks because, he noted, each bank has its own criteria for acceptance. (Republic and the three or four others I approached all rejected me.)
My hopes were raised when I stumbled across student applications for the American Express Optima and the Citibank Visa cards. If students with no salaries or credit histories were eligible, I reasoned, I must be, too. The Citibank application trumpeted: "No fee. No worries." It was even cavalier: "Breed goats in your dorm," it said. "No co-signer or minimum income required."
When I made phone inquiries, however, I was turned down for both cards on the grounds that I was not a student. That I am a former student with an advanced degree, income, savings and no debt cut no mustard with the telemarketers or their supervisors. Statistics, I was told by a supervisor at American Express, show that students (perhaps especially those who breed goats?) are better credit risks than adults.
 But the final blow came when the American Express supervisor told me my record now indicated an unusual number of requests for credit in a short time, which credit companies view with suspicion. He advised me to make no further credit applications for six months to erase this blemish. Suddenly I was not only without credit but penalized for seeking it.
The strict adherence of all these institutions to cookie-cutter requirements was baffling. No one benefits if I am unable to spend my pent-up earnings at will.
DETERMINED to pursue this black comedy to a conclusion, I asked a Citibank branch executive why I couldn't have a no-fee secured card if students could have a no-fee unsecured card. The affable vice president told me the fee on secured cards had long since been dropped, paving the way for me to receive my plastic a few weeks later.
Although I am no longer subject to the petty irritation of seeking out A.T.M.'s and the recurring humiliation of credit card rejections, the satisfaction I should feel is tempered by the nagging suspicion that the secured card has bought me only a kind of second-class citizenship, and I am probably still ineligible to buy a car or a home, despite the fact that I could well afford either.
The mystery to me is how people with incomes below $25,000 a year can rack up $40,000 in credit card debt (and then, if the horror stories are true, go into bankruptcy and still be allowed to keep the house and car at taxpayer expense), while someone with an enviable track record has to move heaven and earth to get credit when she doesn't really need it because she learned to live without it when she really could have used it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); DEBIT CARDS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RETAILERS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); 

PERSON: FOLEY, VALERIE

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



615 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: COLLEGE POINT / FLUSHING;
Anatomy of a Deal For Vacant Land

BYLINE: By Jane H. Lii 

 BODY:
Proposals by a Pepsi-Cola bottler to find a developer for a vacant 26-acre tract it owns north of the old Flushing Airport -- possibly for megastores like Kmart and Price Club -- have left area residents and businesses bitter and angry.
The tract was sold by the city to the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of New York in 1986 for $4 million for use as a bottling plant. But Don Thomas, a senior vice president of the company, said it had decided to approach developers instead. 
 A lawyer for the company, David Stadtmauer, said on Friday that it was in final negotiations with a developer called Related Companies, which has approached Kmart, Price Club and other retailers. He said the bottler had paid the city $500,000 to change the deed from industrial to retail use.
Fred Mazarello, president of the College Point Board of Trade, which represents local businesses, said he is angry because Pepsi received a favorable deal on the land sale in order to keep jobs in Queens, not to make money by developing it.
Officials of the city's Economic Development Corporation said, however, that the sale price was discounted because the land had holes that needed to be filled before construction could start. And Mr. Thomas denied that the company had received special treatment.
Residents and businesses say they fear that stores will worsen the existing traffic problem.
"Right now, it's a free-for-all," said Josephine Mercurio, president of the College Point Civic and Taxpayers Association. "Trucks use the streets whether they are truck routes or not." Ms. Mercurio said her association does not oppose the development as long as the city and developers resolve the traffic problem.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PBG (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RELATED COMPANIES; PEPSI-COLA BOTTLING CO OF NEW YORK PEPSI-COLA BOTTLING CO OF NEW YORK (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: RELATED COMPANIES; PEPSI-COLA BOTTLING CO OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (91%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); ZONING (79%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H JOSEPHINE MERCURIO (80%); DON THOMAS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



616 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Out From Under

BYLINE: By Herbert Stein; Herbert Stein is a former chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers and the author of "The Fiscal Revolution in America," now in a second, revised edition.

 BODY:

THE ROAD FROM SERFDOM
The Economic and Political Consequences of the End of Communism.
By Robert Skidelsky.
214 pp. New York: Allen Lane/The Penguin Press. $26.95.
Economists will be forever grateful for Robert Skidelsky's superb biography of John Maynard Keynes, of which two volumes have already appeared and a third is promised. After such arduous effort on the life and ideas of another, Robert Skidelsky, a professor of political economy at Warwick University, is surely entitled to some speculations of his own. In "The Road From Serfdom" he tackles big questions about the character of our economic system: where are we, how did we get here and what do we do next? If he does not answer these questions entirely satisfactorily -- well, who does? At least we have the thoughts of an intelligent, well-read and open-minded person. And, thank the Lord -- Robert Skidelsky became a lord in 1991 -- the book is not very long. 
 The title is an echo of the famous book by Friedrich Hayek, "The Road to Serfdom," first published in 1944. These "road" metaphors are likely to be misleading. The idea that we are on a road suggests that history moves in a one-dimensional way inexorably to some extreme destination or from some extreme origin. By describing the world now as being on the road from serfdom, Lord Skidelsky is implying that we have all moved a substantial way along the road that Hayek visualized and that we are now experiencing a grand reversal toward freedom. That historical movement, in his view, includes as essentially similar the fall of Communism in the Soviet Union and the emergence of Thatcherism in Britain and Reaganism in the United States. Now these developments do have some things in common, just as a beheading and a haircut have some things in common. But the differences are so great that to discuss them as part of the same continuum is misleading and confusing.
Neither Lord Skidelsky's book nor Hayek's earlier one is really about serfdom. Both are about the suppression of individual freedom by the state. But serfdom denoted a relation between private individuals, like slavery in the United States. The serfs in Russia and the slaves in America were liberated by the state, and their experience shows that freedom is not entirely a matter of the relation between individuals and the state, and that an increase in the role of the state is not necessarily a movement away from freedom. Failure to recognize this gives both books an unduly narrow perspective. What Hayek foresaw as the road to serfdom and what Lord Skidelsky now sees as a realization of Hayek's fears until the advent of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher was in fact a new birth of freedom, at least in the United States. Blacks and women, and others as well, gained greatly in freedom.
After we get beyond the title, Lord Skidelsky's word for the evil from which we are now recovering is not "serfdom" but "collectivism." He defines that as "the belief that the state knows better than the market, and can improve on the spontaneous tendencies of civil society, if necessary by suppressing them." But no one believes that the state knows better than the market or than civil society about everything, and no one believes that there is nothing about which the state knows better. In fact, Lord Skidelsky lists a number of areas in which state activity or interference is perfectly legitimate. As he says, "collectivism is therefore a matter of degree."
But once that is said we are in a whole new ball game. We can no longer say a priori whether more state activity is a good thing or a bad thing. We cannot escape the difficult task of trying to judge whether particular state activities are legitimate in a free society, whether they are conducted on too large or too small a scale and whether they are effectively managed.
When we get beyond this semantic underbrush we come to the core, or two cores, of the book: one is what has been happening in the societies of Western Europe and the United States, which have on the whole been highly successful; the other is what has been happening in the previously Communist, failed societies that are trying to become normal -- that is, like us.
With respect to the Western societies, Lord Skidelsky's story in bare bones is essentially this: During the 19th century and even more in the 20th century, the role of the state increased. This was partly the result of objective forces -- urbanization, industrialization, the rise of large private institutions like corporations, wars (including the cold war), the Great Depression and democracy. It was also the result of ideas generated by a number of thinkers -- a list that begins conveniently with the German economist Friedrich List and includes Marx, of course, and the Webbs and Carlyle and many others. Keynes makes an ambiguous appearance, first as a savior of the free system and later, through his disciples, as a threat to it. Sometime around 1965, according to Lord Skidelsky, the expansion of the state had gone too far, had become excessively collectivist, and public resentment against it produced the Thatcher and Reagan revolutions, which were our part of the road from serfdom.
This is not exactly the story as I would tell it. Lord Skidelsky places more weight on thinkers and less on politics and politicians as determinants of policy than I would. He relies too much on the generalizations of intellectuals for descriptions of what was actually going on. He is taken in too much by rhetoric about planning, even though he notes that in the British case the plan was on paper only. (In 1973 the Romanian Minister of Economic Planning thought that I, as chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, was his opposite number. Nothing could have been further from the truth.) Lord Skidelsky gives insufficient weight to what must be a major factor in any history, which is plain miscalculation. He too readily attributes the ills from which we have obviously suffered -- inflation and slow real growth -- to collectivism, but says too little about the problems stored up for us for the future by the unwise undertaking of obligations in the 1960's and 1970's. And he does not examine what 15 years of experience might tell us about the success of Thatcherism and Reaganism.
Lord Skidelsky has admirably organized a large body of information into a plausible story that is surely true in the main. It deserves attention. But it is not the whole truth. I fear that in the present political atmosphere it will be seized upon by American politicians as support for their claim that we need them to liberate us from our Government.
Lord Skidelsky's discussion of the collapse of Communism and the sequel up to now is the most informative part of the book for me, as I believe it will be for most American readers. He explains why the inefficient Communist planning system could not go on just yielding very low or even slightly negative rates of economic growth but had to collapse into a rapid decline of output. Recovery from this collapse required two kinds of development. One kind included tight fiscal and monetary policy, decontrol of prices, international competition and convertible currency. The other kind of development was to generate the internal structural conditions for free markets -- to get state-owned industry into the hands of businesslike private management, to establish legal codes for the conduct of private business, to maintain law and order and to provide a sufficient social safety net to make the inevitable adjustments tolerable. There was initially some debate over the speed with which the first set of requirements should be met -- the shock-therapy-versus-gradualism debate. This debate was not settled but it has been rendered moot, because most of the shock that was going to occur has occurred already. Now the main question is whether the other conditions can emerge fast enough to yield the economic normality that will support political stability.
While this seems to be happening in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, Lord Skidelsky leaves the question in doubt with respect to Russia itself. Ironically for a book that is in general so anti-government, the lesson seems to be that for Russia to get on the road from serfdom will require more effective performance there of the functions of government that are so normal in the West. And even more ironically, Lord Skidelsky thinks that a critical condition for success in Russian normalization is a large inflow of economic aid from the West -- a bigger injection of Western collectivism in support of Russian freedom. Which only goes to show that the road of history is not a straight line.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ROAD FROM SERFDOM, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SLAVERY (86%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); 

PERSON: STEIN, HERBERT; SKIDELSKY, ROBERT RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



617 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: High Heels and Hangovers

BYLINE: By Jane O'Reilly; Jane O'Reilly is the author of "The Girl I Left Behind" and "No Turning Back: Two Nuns Battle With the Vatican Over Women's Right to Choose."

 BODY:

At the Still Point A Memoir.
By Carol Buckley.
Illustrated. 255 pp. New York: Simon & Schuster. $23.
Last fall I taught a class in memoir writing. My students were adults, and each possessed the basic requirements: a life and the story of its living. Too soon, I urged them to take Vladimir Nabokov's "Speak, Memory" as an example of the best that can be done with those basics. They recoiled. One, to the applause of the others, described the effort of reading Nabokov as "like wading through wet sand." In revenge, I produced the vanity press recollections of a Middle Western utilities executive notable for its range of platitude and the absence of the personal. After that it was easier to persuade them that having a memory is not the same thing as writing one. 
 Next semester I will be able to make a more congenial beginning. Carol Buckley's "At the Still Point" will serve as a perfect example of how to accomplish the task of writing a memoir. The author is one of those Buckleys, the rich, conservative, multitudinous Roman Catholic Buckleys. But she was the baby, the last, born six years after the ninth child. "I was born an only child in a family of 10," she writes, and the first thing she knew about herself was that her birth nearly killed her mother. She was too young to know all her siblings, or even to sort out fully which was which. They were Buckleys, and she was somehow "different, not really a bona fide member of the family. I was still in grade school, they were 'grown-ups'; I was dumb, they were smart." Her childhood was spent in "a kind of opulent neglect," bewildering and filled with the echoes of family games long since past.
As an adult she furnished a doll house for her own daughter, filling it with servant dolls but forgetting to include parent dolls. Every fall, baby Carol was sent ahead to Camden, S.C., where the Buckleys had a winter house they opened in December. While she stayed in a hotel with a governess, the family congregated back in Connecticut for the Thanksgiving holiday. The first time she tried to kill herself, years later, was on a Thanksgiving
afternoon.
Ms. Buckley flunked out of college, married, contributed four children to the pool of 50 Buckley cousins. Her most beloved sisters died. Isolation and depression, pills and alcohol, shock treatment and suicide attempts took over her life. Somehow she acquired a new husband and became half of a glamorous New York City couple. Her parties were famous. She served on boards.
"The men are gray and businesslike -- there are fewer of them but they talk more. The women, early to late middle age, are uniformed: caps of blondish hair done by Kenneth or by
M. Marc, bright polished nails, big gold earrings, slender gold chains, Cartier watches, silk blouses, Adolfo suits (Nancy Reagan is First Lady), panty hose, heels. And hangovers." One peaceful summer evening, in her pretty summer house, alone, she became so drunk she crawled up the stairs to the bedroom, pushing a glass of grapefruit juice and vodka ahead of herself. Three weeks later she stopped drinking. The marriage crashed. With the help of her brother Bill she finished college and became a social worker. "A sense of my own autonomy would develop slowly as I learned to focus on others and to leave myself behind." Briefly, she moved back to Connecticut, back to her childhood geography, and finished growing up. Then she moved to the shore, settling into what she has discovered to be "the still point of the turning world," as Eliot called it.
"At the Still Point" is an interesting story, but there is nothing special about having an interesting story, except perhaps the surviving of it. Everyone has an interesting story. That's life. The challenge is to write it so that the reader cares. That's art. And that is what Carol Buckley brings to, or extracts from, her story. The writing is graceful, evocative and economical. Technically, her choices of what to tell and how much and in what tone are extremely deft. She is a generous memoirist, casting no blame and telling no secrets but her own. And she has only one message, so quietly and unobtrusively argued that its truth comes as a surprise and a comfort. "I once heard a man say about becoming sober: 'I was given permission to be ordinary.' What a relief! Not to be better than or less than, to be special only as a part of. What is special is to be ordinary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AT THE STILL POINT (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (87%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); WRITERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); SUICIDE (64%); DEPRESSION (63%); THANKSGIVING (60%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: O'REILLY, JANE; BUCKLEY, CAROL VLADIMIR NABOKOV (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



618 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: China, in Flux, Must Integrate Values

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "China's Quest for Respect" (Op-Ed, Feb. 19): 
 As China undergoes leadership succession and the uncertainties of economic growth, it needs integrative values. Lucian W. Pye's proposal that the United States engage China in public debate rather than behind-the-scenes discussion ought to be a challenge.
If the debate between Mao Zedong and Nikita S. Khrushchev in the 1960's could help China define itself in terms of its own socialist value system, let the United States encourage China to regenerate national values and integrate them with an expanding free market. Perhaps there will also develop a greater mutual understanding.
Let the Chinese respond publicly to the notion that a tolerance of human rights and an evolution toward freedom of expression might serve as an impetus to market competition and creativity.
There is in China a craving for ideological identity. A 16-year-old girl told me in Shanghai last year that China will lead the world in the next millennium. What she wanted to know from me was what contributed to America's development. President Clinton should tell her and China, too.
 
DAVID M. RADDOCK
Brooklyn, Feb. 21, 1996
 
The writer, a China specialist and political psychologist, was until recently a visiting senior research scholar, Columbia U.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EAST CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); 

PERSON: PYE, LUCIAN W BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



619 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Defining Evil

BYLINE: By John Gray; John Gray is a fellow of Jesus College, Oxford, and the author of the forthcoming "Enlightenment's Wake."

 BODY:

A HISTORY OF FASCISM, 1914-1945
By Stanley G. Payne.
Illustrated. 613 pp. Madison: The University of Wisconsin Press. $39.95.
IS fascism a thing of the past? The question has both a theoretical and a practical interest. On the theoretical side we are curious whether fascist movements and regimes are so linked to the conditions of Europe between the world wars that nothing having their peculiar combination of features can be found in other historical contexts -- such as our own. Practically, we are anxious about the future of liberal democracy. We wonder if the increase in economic insecurity that affects almost all of us -- but particularly the middle classes, for whom it remains in some ways a novel experience -- may not provoke a revival of movements of the kind that swept away fragile democracies in the 1930's. Looking at the world around us, it seems that powerful fascist movements do belong to the interwar period and pose no major danger to us now. Except perhaps for Russia, where Vladimir Zhirinovsky's bizarrely misnamed Liberal Democratic Party has evoked comparisons with Hitler's National Socialists in Weimar Germany, no democratic state faces anything that could reasonably be described as a fascist threat. Most democracies contain small groups that are estranged from democratic institutions, some of them -- like those who inspired the Oklahoma bombing or those who daubed European synagogues with anti-Semitic slogans -- willing to resort to terrorist violence. Yet none of these groups are in a position to mount a challenge to a democratic state. Can we then safely write off fascism as largely banished from the world? 
 Anyone seeking a guide to thinking about the history and essential characteristics of fascism could do no better than read Stanley G. Payne's invaluable book, "A History of Fascism, 1914-1945," which is likely to be the definitive study of its subject for a considerable time. Mr. Payne, a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has given us a study that is a model of historical narrative, analysis and interpretation. His account of European fascism, and of fascist-like movements in Latin America, Asia and elsewhere, is authoritative, exhaustive and suggestive. One of the vital distinctions he is concerned to make is between fascism and the political movements of the right. In most countries, fascist movements distinguished themselves from even the authoritarian far right by their uncompromising modernism, their rejection of any kind of reactionary nostalgia for the past and, in many cases, by their pronounced hostility to Christianity.
Mr. Payne makes the interesting and perceptive observation that, insofar as fascism had anything resembling a coherent framework of distinctive ideas, this owed much to the European Enlightenment as that had been interpreted and developed by thinkers like Nietzsche and Henri Bergson. In fact, as he rightly argues, fascist ideology is in many ways an echo of Europe's fin de sicle intellectual ferment in the arts, literature and philosophy. In support of this interpretation we may note that in many countries fascism in its earlier stages attracted the sympathy of avant-garde artists -- particularly in Italy, where the Futurist painter Filippo Marinetti was for a time a prominent supporter. Again, fascist economic programs were a mixed bag of proposals that were rarely worked out seriously and never implemented, yet they all involved large changes in existing economic policies. In important respects, the claim of the early fascists that they were not conservatives or reactionaries but rather radicals or revolutionaries who repudiated the bourgeois culture and institutions of the 19th century is well founded in the realities of history. One conclusion to be drawn from Mr. Payne's account is that we will not advance our understanding if we rest content with the clich that fascism represented a regression into atavism, a step backward in historical development. It is often better understood as a form of perverse modernity.
A t the same time, fascism was from its beginnings allied with antiliberal and xenophobic forms of nationalism. In many countries -- Spain, Portugal and much of the Balkans, for example -- it was virtually indistinguishable from movements and parties of the authoritarian, clerical right. In these countries a reactionary political mythology of peasant life was an important component of fascism. In much of central and eastern Europe, anti-Semitism -- which was not a defining element in fascism in Italy or Spain -- was a central and fundamental theme both of the authoritarian right and of fascist parties that modeled themselves on the example of National Socialist Germany. In Nazism, fascism was able to combine the most contradictory tendencies, representing itself as at once the embodiment of a new world order and the savior of the social order in Germany and Europe. A small part of the measureless moral horror of the Holocaust may derive from its combination of the most atavistic human impulses with some of the more advanced applications of technology and modern science (or its perversions, in Nazi eugenics and racist theories). This fusion of apparent opposites in the prototypical Nazi exemplar makes any simple definition of fascism unhelpful. Perhaps, in the end, fascism has no essential nature at all, and there is really nothing more to it than its history.
Mr. Payne concludes his inquiry with the observation that "the Western world has been inoculated against fascism," so much so that even a major new economic crisis could not bring it back to life. It is almost certainly true that, except possibly in post-Communist Russia, we will not again see anything that resembles the classical fascism of the interwar period. The principal threat to liberal democracy now comes more from a revival of the radical right. In continental Europe, radical rightist parties, like those of Jean-Marie Le Pen in France and Jorg Haider in Austria, maintain a consistently strong electoral performance on the basis of new economic insecurities and the revival of old anti-immigrant sentiments. True, none of these parties can hope to challenge democratic institutions; but they nevertheless mark a break with the political culture of postwar Europe, where parties of the far right were everywhere excluded from serious political influence. In the United States, the ranting evangelists of welfare cuts and "family values" on the Republican right have discovered that it is difficult, in a functioning democracy, to implement evolutionary policy changes that flout long-established expectation.
Yet it is these populists and doctrinaires of the anti-government right who probably pose the most serious threat to stable democratic institutions today. Their combination of economic Darwinism with a deeply reactionary view of family life is a recipe for widening social division, deepening political alienation and intractable cultural warfare. In any less historically myopic age this would at once be recognized as a radically unconservative agenda. The ruling project of today's radicals of the right, in the United States and similar countries, is an anachronistic dystopia -- reinvention of the laissez-faire capitalism and minimum government of a century ago, together with the re-creation of what they believe to have been the family life of that period. If this project has an intellectual pedigree it is in the thought of libertarian doctrinaires like the philosopher Herbert Spencer and the conservative journalist Albert Jay Nock. There is a cruel paradox in the truth that the chief danger to liberal democracy now should come not from fascism but from the rebirth of a primitive form of liberalism.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Italian fascists in a 1930's publicity photo. (FROM "A HISTORY OF FASCISM, 1914-1945")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HISTORY OF FASCISM, A, 1914-1945 (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (66%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (66%); GERMANY (57%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LITERATURE (74%); RELIGION (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JOHN; PAYNE, STANLEY G VLADIMIR ZHIRINOVSKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



620 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Lordship Has Its Price: Blue-Chip Bids for Blueblood Titles

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
WHEN Victor Podd decided to rustle up some new business three years ago for Powertex Inc., his packaging company, he didn't join an association or double his advertising. Instead, he wrote a $30,000 check to the Manorial Society of Great Britain and became the Baron of Newcastle, buying a 900-year-old title put on the block by an aristocrat in need of quick cash.
The acquisition paid some fast dividends. Formerly sequestered at Powertex headquarters in Rouses Point, N.Y., a hamlet near the Vermont border, Mr. Podd suddenly found himself mingling with others in America's corporate gentry. Joseph Hardy 3d, chairman of the 84 Lumber Company in Pittsburgh, invited Mr. Podd two years ago for his annual summer retreat in Farmington, Pa., although the two had never met. 
 As it turns out, Mr. Hardy had shelled out $180,000 four years earlier for the Lordship of Henley-in-Arden and enjoys hobnobbing with fellow aristocrats. The introduction was a boon for Mr. Podd, who met several British executives just as he was increasing his company's presence in Europe.
"I would have never made such fast inroads without those lordships of the manor," said Mr. Podd, who has scooped up six titles in the last three years. "Once you buy one, it's like you become a member of an exclusive club."
Scooping up British titles may appear to be an odd hobby, but it's quickly becoming a consuming passion for some celebrities and common folk alike. This spring's auctions -- set for March 20 at the Manorial Society and March 26 at Strutt & Parker in Essex -- are expected to draw near-record prices.
The auctions will probably be similar to past ones, at which some of the writers of the biggest checks were Russian and Japanese executives who enjoy counting themselves among Europe's nobility, and Canadians and Americans out to reconnect with their ancestries.
The big difference at this year's auctions should be the size of the checks. Two years ago, with Europe in a recession, manorial lordships typically went for $6,000 and baronies for $30,000. Next month, they are expected to fetch $7,500 to $90,000.
"Now that demand for British lordships has picked up again, we're seeing interest from all over the world," said Robert Smith, chairman of the Manorial Society, the largest auctioneer of British titles. "Many of the buyers are curious about the British nobility or are avid students of history."
Counted among Britain's newly anointed lords are a top-level aide to the former Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev; the founder of Norton Utilities, Peter Norton, who paid a six-figure sum to become the lord of Shakespeare's hometown, Stratford-on-Avon, and the composer Ole Georg, also known as the Lord of Sheldowne in Sussex.
Why all the noble hubbub? It has been caused in part by the cinema. Two Jane Austen novels that were made into films recently, "Persuasion" and "Sense and Sensibility," are but the latest in a number that have sparked an interest in British history. But more important, every title now up for grabs is a British heirloom, passed down from one generation to the next.
Some buyers collect them like fine art. Lordships and baronies are some of Europe's oldest titles, dating back to the Domesday Book, which recorded a land survey for William the Conqueror in 1086. In the golden days, the lord collected rent from people who lived within his domain, pocketed a cut of the profits from street fairs, oversaw the local legal system and dispatched troops to help the king.
Unfortunately, the titles up for grabs today have lost virtually all that power. Some manorial lordships come with no benefits other than the title. Most offer the lord first dibs on the manor's minerals and rights to the roadside, the narrow strip of land between a thoroughfare and the front yard of the property owner, who could be anyone from a farmer to a big corporation.
About 90 percent of British titles that are auctioned are bought my men. Women who buy titles, Mr. Smith said, are usually of independent means and buy for the same reasons as men: They want to connect with a British ancestry or consider the titles to be collector's items.
"A common misconception is that people get manorial titles confused with peerages," Mr. Smith said. "Peerages entitle the owner to sit in the House of Lords. These titles we sell at auction do not."
If being a lord of a manor isn't what it used to be, you'd never know it by some current owners. Many people, like Mr. Podd, own more than one title. "I'd like the titles to become part of our family's belongings," Mr. Podd said. "I plan to pass them on to my children."
Several titles on the block this year are prime properties. Scottish baronies are rare, and one that is for sale, the Barony of Finavon, comes with the remains of a castle on two acres in central Scotland. The bidding should top $90,000. If you want to be a top lord, make a bid for the manor of Towton, one of Europe's most historic sites. One of the fiercest battles of the War of the Roses took place there, and the title should fetch more than $12,000.
Buying a title is relatively easy. Both these properties are being auctioned off by the Manorial Society. To make a bid, buyers can contact the society (011-44-17-1735-6633) or one of the other top British auction houses -- Strutt & Parker (011-44-12-4525-8201) or Cluttons (011-44-17-1408-1010) -- which have a separate selection of titles. Cluttons rarely conducts an auction, but titles can sometimes be purchased through a private sale.
All three auction houses have catalogues listing the titles on the block, with a brief history of each. "It helps to be present at the auction or visit England ahead of time," Mr. Smith said. "That way we could point them to the manor itself and they could go visit. But it's not necessary."
Regardless of the title they buy, most lords of the manor seem to enjoy their new notoriety. A few years ago, Arnold Davis, a retired real estate executive from New York, visited Barnham Broom, a small town in Norfolk, England, after he had bought the lordship of the manor. "When the people at the local pub found out that I was the lord of the manor, they bought my wife and me a round of drinks," Mr. Davis said. "I eventually christened a building and got to know the local vicar. My wife and I have made a lot of friends there."
The titles have a few other subtle perks. Auctioneers frown on buyers who snap up titles for investments, but clearly the title of lord has behaved recently like a solid blue-chip stock. Denis Woodfield, a retired executive at Johnson & Johnson, paid $1,400 for the Lordship of Hamptonet in Worchestershire in the early 1980's. Today, it is estimated to be worth at least 10 times that.
"You shouldn't buy a title thinking that you're going to make money," said Mr. Woodfield, the Manorial Society's United States chairman. "But the titles do seem to pay off over time, if you ever wanted to sell them again. I wish I could say all my investments have done as well as this one."
But other lords have pocketed even greater bonanzas. Mr. Woodfield remembers a British executive who bought a lordship only to discover that a real estate developer had violated his manorial rights without permission. The executive's lordship included rights to the roadside, meaning he could charge rent for anyone trespassing on it. The developer had built 24 houses along the road, allowing the driveways to cross the easement. The executive sued, pocketing $10,000 in damages for each of the 24 driveways. Not bad, considering that he paid only about $15,000 for the title.
"A windfall like that is very rare," Mr. Woodfield said. "And you can't really watch your rights unless you're in the country. After I heard that, I approached the local authorities about some poles they had put on my roadside that I thought I could get some money for. They quickly reminded me that the county was cutting my grass and taking care of my roadside. They'd be more than happy to start charging me for that. I told them that I'd see them later."
While demand for British titles is increasing, plenty more should come on the block over the next few months. Charles Chetwynd-Talbot, the Earl of Shrewsbury, plans to unload about 40 of his 60 titles this May to raise money to buy more farmland. "Some of these titles have been in my family for more than 300 years," Mr. Chetwynd-Talbot said. "But I consider them part of my stocks and bonds. Usually the people who buy titles really appreciate their history or enjoy the feeling of nobility."
It is a safe bet that not all of the potential buyers for Mr. Chetwynd-Talbot's titles will be celebrities or chief executives. Ronald J. Shaw, a lawyer in San Antonio, recently bought the Lordship of Hunworth for $9,000. Mr. Shaw wanted the title to leave to his 5-year-old daughter, Kaitlin.
"Right when I found out about the titles, I thought they'd be a great gift," Mr. Shaw said. "I figured, hey, this way I'll always know that my daughter will be a lady."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Podd at his home in Montreal with papers giving him the title of Lordship of Holland-on-Sea, one of six titles he has bought in three years; The cover page, left, of Manorial Auctioneers' catalogue for the previous sale of lordships, in December. Above, a certificate of aristocracy. (Christopher Morris for The New York Times)
 
Table: "Lords and Ladies in Waiting" lists manorial titles, many of which will be auctioned on March 20. Location and brief history of each title is also provided, along with the title's price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS326113 UNLAMINATED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (EXCEPT PACKAGING) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3081 UNSUPPORTED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (91%); NAICS444190 OTHER BUILDING MATERIAL DEALERS (56%); NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (56%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (56%); SIC5251 HARDWARE STORES (56%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (56%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); 

COMPANY: STRUTT & PARKER POWERTEX INC (91%); 84 LUMBER CO LP (56%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (84%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRUTT & PARKER MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (84%); MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MANORIAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (90%); HISTORY (73%); WRITERS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J CRAIG R SMITH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



621 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
The Forms Look About the Same, but Beware of the Tinkering

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
RADICAL overhaul of the tax system may dominate political debate these days, but there is remarkably little change in the rules for filing your return for 1995.
Just because no major new legislation has been put on the books, however, does not mean there are no refinements to wrestle with or costly traps to avoid. Indeed, it is still conceivable -- although more unlikely each day -- that the capital gains tax will be cut retroactively, a situation inspiring "a lot of prayer" at the Internal Revenue Service, which hopes it will not face a blizzard of amended returns, according to the I.R.S. Commissioner, Margaret Milner Richardson. 
 Other legislation could also pass that would affect 1995 taxes but prospects seem dim for most of the package approved by a House-Senate conference in November and then rejected by President Clinton.
But strange and unpredictable things happen, especially in election years. Some analysts contend that chances for major legislation will improve if Senator Bob Dole continues to falter in his quest for the Presidency because he may want to prove to Republican primary voters that his biggest presumed asset -- Washington experience -- gets results.
On the other hand, if Mr. Dole closes in on the Republican nomination he may not want to risk a big collaboration with the President for fear that Mr. Clinton, his rival, would get most of the credit.
For 1995 returns, there are some new substantive and procedural benefits, like the option to have refunds deposited directly into your bank account and the less burdensome treatment of the so-called nanny tax.
The I.R.S. will not issue Publication 553 this year, its list of tax law changes, even though the instruction book refers to it as a source of detailed information.
But these are some things to watch:
STRICTER VERIFICATION OF DEPENDENTS Taxpayers must now supply a Social Security number for any claimed dependent who was born before Nov. 1, 1995, which means the I.R.S. will have evidence that all but newborns actually exist. Without the number -- or with an incorrect one -- refunds are subject to delay and filers could be hit with a $50 penalty.
Last tax season 800,000 dependents "mysteriously disappeared," the agency says, reflecting progressively more stringent documentation requirements. For returns covering 1996, things will tighten further with a Social Security number required for those born before Dec. 1.
 
STREAMLINED PAYMENT OF THE NANNY TAX Employment taxes on wages paid gardeners, baby sitters, health aides and other household help are now reported with your income-tax return and collected annually, rather than quarterly. You report this on Form 1040, line 53, attaching the new Schedule H. You are liable if you paid any domestic worker -- students under 18 excepted -- as much as $1,000 in cash during 1995 or paid total domestic wages of $1,000 in any calendar quarter of 1994 or 1995. Your payment is for Social Security, Medicare and Federal unemployment coverage and for Federal income tax you have withheld.
 
DIRECT DEPOSIT OF REFUNDS One way to speed up your refund -- and eliminate the possibility of a lost check -- is to fill out Form 8888, which is new this year, and put it directly behind the form you file and ahead of any schedules or other attachments. Form 8888 is simple, but some taxpayers may find it slightly tricky to decipher from one of their own checks the bank's routing transit number that needs to be provided to the I.R.S. And some banks will not allow a refund from a joint return to be deposited into the individual account of a husband or wife.
 
FINAL PAYMENT ON 1993 TAX INCREASE If you are one of the 750,000 or so taxpayers who owe a final installment on the 1993 tax increase, make sure to send in the check for it separately -- accompanied by the tear-off voucher you should get with a reminder notice in March -- so it will not be mistakenly credited for 1995. Last season there was considerable confusion, mostly because of errors by the I.R.S.
However, if you are due a refund for 1995, you can apply some or all of that refund to your remaining 1993 balance by indicating this on your return, as long as your check for any shortfall tax is sent separately.
 
LAPSED EDUCATION EXCLUSION Without fresh legislation, you can no longer get an exclusion for up to $5,250 of education assistance provided by your employer. It is now deemed income for which tax has very probably not been withheld. The exclusion, benefiting about 800,000 people, expired at the end of 1994 and efforts to restore it have bogged down. Still, many tax experts think it could yet be restored, even retroactively. If you received tuition reimbursement, you might want to hold off filing until close to deadline to minimize the chances of needing to amend your return.
 
RECEIPTS: A MIXED BAG To deduct charitable contributions of $250 or more, you now need a written acknowledgment from the recipient, a requirement that many seem to have neglected. "I don't think clients have clearly focused in on this," said John Kearney, senior tax partner at Israeloff, Trattner & Company.
You must also get a written statement from a tax-exempt organization if you gave it more than $75 and received any goods or services in return, like football tickets or a dinner. The statement must put a value on what you receive, which cannot be deducted.
On the other hand, as of Oct. 1, 1995, the Government no longer requires that business people have receipts for meals and other travel and entertainment expenses of less than $75, triple the previous threshold that had prevailed since 1962. Many companies, however, are sticking with the $25 figure to keep a tight lid on costs.
 
RELIEF FOR RETIREES While it does not directly affect this filing season, legislation signed by President Clinton last month will no doubt prompt a fresh look at tax planning by many current and soon-to-be retirees.
The new law bars what is known as "source taxing," the practice by states of reaching beyond their borders to tax retirement income of former residents. Two of the most aggressive states are New York and California. The relief, which applies to deferred compensation as well as retirement money, applies to amounts received after Dec. 31, 1995.
"Residents of states with high income-tax rates may wish to consider relocating to low- or no-tax states after retirement," specialists at Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts advise.


GRAPHIC: While the White House and Congress agreed on the broad principles of several tax changes, including tax credits for children, deductions for higher education and a possible cut in the gains tax, they never reached final agreement. Chart provides a briefing of the key tax provisions contained in the budget bill passed by Congress in November and vetoed by President Clinton.
Chart: "Still on the Table"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (83%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



622 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Outlook Clouded on a Capital Gains Rate Cut

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
AS taxpayers prepare their 1995 returns and do tax planning for 1996, no area is more clouded than capital gains. The rate may or may not drop, and if it does, the drop could be effective in 1995, or maybe in 1996.
Adding to the confusion, the traditional ways to defer or evade capital-gains taxes are under attack, and could yet be thrown out, retroactively. On the other hand, some Presidential candidates want to get rid of capital-gains taxes. 
 Capital gains are the profits an investor makes when selling an asset, most often stock or bonds, real estate or collectibles like art or antiques. Over the years, the taxation of such profits has varied substantially, depending on which of two arguments was heard the loudest. Those who want to cut such taxes cite the advantages to the economy of encouraging investment; those who wand to raise them contend that capital gains are mostly realized by affluent investors and argue that it is not fair to grant the richest taxpayers lower tax rates.
The current law splits the difference. For long-term capital gains -- profits taken on assets held more than one year -- the rate is the same as the rate on ordinary income for investors in the two lower marginal brackets of 15 and 28 percent. But taxpayers in higher brackets, up to 39.6 percent, pay only 28 percent on long-term gains.
Under the tax bill passed by the Republican majority in Congress, rates on capital gains for all taxpayers would have been cut to half their marginal rate on earned income, effective Jan. 1, 1995, creating five rates ranging from 7.5 percent to 19.8 percent. But in the continuing budget wrangles with Congress President Clinton vetoed that legislation.
Congressional Republicans are still officially committed to that bill, and to a 1995 effective date. But the more time passes, the less likely that becomes. Still, if a budget deal is ever reached in Washington, capital-gains taxes would probably be cut.
With confusion rampant, what's an investor to do? There are clearly reasons to take capital losses quickly, but there may be advantages to delaying capital gains, in hope of lower rates. But, of course, opinions on market value should take precedence, since tax savings can quickly vanish if the value of an investment should plummet.
Some of the flat tax plans being talked about by Republicans would end taxation of capital gains altogether. Whether such a tax plan could be enacted is doubtful, but anyone who expects one eventually might want to delay selling, even if capital-gains tax rates are lowered, hoping instead to avoid taxation altogether.
Avoiding such taxation now is possible if you are willing to pay your broker a fee -- and if you have enough profits to make the fee worthwhile. But, again, there is uncertainty, for the Clinton Administration is proposing essentially to bar such tactics and to make that bar retroactive to Jan. 4.
The most popular such tactic is called "selling short against the box" (a reference to old practice of keeping securities in a safety deposit box). Let's say you own 1,000 shares of Intel, bought years ago. If you sold them now, you'd have a profit of about $40 per share, or $40,000. At a 28 percent capital-gains tax rate, you would owe Uncle Sam $11,200.
On the other hand, you might tell your broker to borrow another 1,000 shares of Intel, and sell them. That is what is known as a short sale. Under tax law as it now stands, the Government figures you have two separate positions, a long one and a short one, and you will not owe any taxes until you close out one position or the other. In fact, you no longer care whether or not Intel goes up, since any profits you make on one position would be offset by losses on the other one.
Using a form of derivatives called equity swaps accomplishes about the same thing and has advantages for large holders because it does not require borrowing shares.
The Clinton proposal would create a concept of constructive sale, essentially what some people call the "smile test." If you don't have a good reason to smile when a stock goes up, or to frown when it goes down, you don't own it anymore. And you should pay taxes, the Administration contends.
If it is approved, then anyone who entered into such a transaction after Jan. 4 would have 30 days to reverse it, said Robert Willens, a tax analyst with Lehman Brothers. If the deal is not reversed, then the stock would be deemed to have been sold, with capital-gains taxes due.
Most people on Wall Street are now acting as if that law had been enacted, and shorting against the box is now an unusual tactic.
"The general view is that if there is a budget compromise, that will be in it," said Robert Gordon, the president of 21st Securities.
Capital losses are not as much talked about as capital gains, but they can be just as real to investors. One little noticed aspect of the Congressional tax bill that President Clinton vetoed was a provision to treat such losses more harshly, even as capital gains were getting a break.
Since that provision, too, is likely to be in any new bill, it is a good idea if you have any large capital losses to take them quickly, Mr. Willens said. Whether that will help is uncertain, since no one knows what the effective date would be. But it would not hurt -- from a tax perspective, at least. Of course, if a battered security suddenly recovered, investors would regret selling.
Capital losses now can be used to offset capital gains, and excess losses can be carried forward to future years to offset gains in those years. That would not change. It is the other use of capital losses that would change. That affects a taxpayer who has a large capital loss and no prospect of immediate capital gains.
Under the current law, a person who reports a capital loss of $24,000 and has no capital gains could use $3,000 of the loss to offset ordinary income, carrying $21,000 forward to future years. And next year, that person could offset another $3,000 of ordinary income. If there were never any capital gains, over eight years the entire loss could offset income of $24,000. income.
The proposed change is to require $6,000 of capital losses to offset $3,000 of income. So that $24,000 loss would offset only $12,000 of ordinary income. Since the proposal would apply only to capital losses taken after the law became effective, losses taken before that date would be worth more to taxpayers.
Capital gains on securities porfolios cannot be offset by passive losses. Even though investors often think of real estate and partnership holdings as investments, under the tax laws those are passive activities, and passive losses can be taken only against passive income.
There remains one way to avoid paying any taxes on capital gains. Never take the gains. When a taxpayer dies, his or her estate will owe estate taxes based on the value of the assets owned by the taxpayer. But it does not matter what the taxpayer paid for those assets. There is no capital-gains tax on the estate.


GRAPHIC: Republicans in Congress contend lower tax rates for capital gains would encourage investment. Oppenents see that as favoring the rich. Graph tracks protion of capital gains exempt from taxation since 1972. (Source: Coopers & Lybrand) (pg. 25)
Graph: "Capital Gains, Long Given a Break"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX PLANNING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); VETO (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



623 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
In Confusion Over Tax Law, Don't Overlook Some Changes

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
WITH the nation's tax rules in seemingly constant flux, even tax professionals are occasionally tripped up. Ask Nadine Gordon Lee, a partner with Ernst & Young, the Big Six accounting firm in New York.
Ms. Lee, a mother of two boys, prepared the paperwork and paid the Federal unemployment tax for her baby sitter in January, when she received the forms in the mail from the Internal Revenue Service. She had grown accustomed to the quarterly blizzard of paperwork needed to pay Social Security and unemployment taxes for baby sitters and other domestic employees. 
 So it completely slipped her mind that there is a new, simpler way to do it: complete the new Schedule H as part of your tax return and make those payments along with your income tax.
But having filed the old way, Ms. Lee said that it would not be simple for her, at least not this year. "I'm expecting to get into a long letter-writing campaign with the I.R.S. to get the tax I already paid offset against what I owe," she said.
Here are some other recently changed areas that tax professionals say many people may stumble over, as well as perennial snares. Being alert to them can help you pay as little as possible on April 15 and avoid trouble with the I.R.S.
If you are self-employed and not covered by your spouse's health insurance, do not overlook or understate the deduction for your health insurance premium. That would be easy to do, because after letting the insurance deduction for the self-employed lapse at the end of 1993, Congress reinstated it retroactively, and increased the size of the deduction to 30 percent of the premium amount for 1995, from 25 percent previously.
Furthermore, eligible people who did not claim the deduction for 1994 may do so by filing an amended 1994 return, 1040X, using the 25 percent figure.
Be sure to get a Social Security number for your baby. Seeking to reduce fraud, the I.R.S. has whittled away the age at which Social Security numbers are required for dependent children, and the number of children claimed as dependents has dropped in tandem. Now Social Security numbers are needed for children two months or older to claim them as dependents on returns, compared with two years previously.
Take any business deductions for travel, meals and entertainment to which you are entitled, even if some of the small receipts have been lost. In an audit the I.R.S. could demand to see receipts for business expenses of $25 or more until last Oct. 1. After that, receipts are required only for expenses of $75 or more. You still need a business diary to back up the expense by stating reasons, location, date and who was entertained.
The maximum earned income tax credit has increased for families of all sizes -- although only by $8 for the childless -- and the amount you can earn and still qualify for the credit has increased. More military personnel will qualify, but many nonresident aliens are cut off. Beginning with 1996, you cannot claim the earned income credit if you have investment income of more than $2,350.
Be careful not to overpay taxes on mutual fund dividends reported on Form 1099. Ordinary dividends are indeed taxable at your marginal rate -- up to 39.6 percent -- but the gross dividends figure sometimes includes capital gains generated by a fund's sale of securities, said Jeff J. Saccacio, the West Coast partner in charge of personal financial planning services for Coopers & Lybrand, a Big Six accounting firm, in Los Angeles. And capital gains are taxed at a top rate of 28 percent.
Furthermore, you owe no tax on any "return of capital" dividends. So it pays to read all the details on the 1099 to sort out exactly what kind of dividends are being reported.
Don't ignore incorrect 1099 statements. The I.R.S. cross-checks nearly every dividend and interest payment reported by taxpayers against the amounts reported by the banks and financial institutions that paid them. When they do not match, the I.R.S. computer kicks out a return for a closer look, and the examiner might find something else to question.
What is the best solution? Write the bank or other payer and have it issue a corrected 1099. When there is not enough time to do that, Ms. Lee advised, write the correct figure on your return and then attach an explanatory schedule to the return.
Even if you do not have the money to pay the taxes you owe, be sure to file your return, or a request for an automatic extension, by April 15. Failing to file could cost you a bundle unnecessarily, Ms. Lee said. If you do not file on time, you will owe an I.R.S. penalty of 5 percent of the unpaid taxes a month up to a maximum of 25 percent, plus taxes and interest. If you file without paying what you owe, the penalty is just a half-percent a month plus taxes and interest on whatever is owed.
If you pay or receive alimony, remember that it is taxable income to the recipient and an above-the-line deduction for the payer. The I.R.S. cross-checks nearly all alimony payments because Social Security numbers are required. People who fail to report income are likely to be audited and owe not only taxes but also penalties and interest.
If you own or rent a pied-a-terre in town or a vacation home elsewhere, bone up on the legalities of residency and keep careful records to avoid being taxed as a resident unexpectedly. It is possible legally to be a resident of two or more cities or states.
Ms. Lee had clients who lived in Westchester County, N.Y., but also bought a small apartment in Manhattan, where they worked. They used the apartment only 8 to 15 days a year, but had to pay resident income taxes in New York City, which considers anyone a resident who has a home in town and is present more than 183 days a year; part of a day counts.
Do not automatically file joint tax returns if you are married. True, married filing jointly will generally result in a lower total tax bill, but if one spouse has a lot of medical or itemized expenses, filing separate returns might lower the liability. That is because medical expenses are permitted only to the extent that they exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income; miscellaneous itemized deductions like unreimbursed business expenses and union dues are allowed only to the extent they exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income. The only way to be sure is calculate both ways.
Finally, if filing at the last minute, do not send your return to the I.R.S. by Federal Express or a similar overnight delivery service. By law, tax returns are considered filed when mailed, even if the I.R.S. receives them several days after April 15. If the United States Postal Service is not used, a return is not legally filed until it is delivered to the I.R.S.


GRAPHIC: An excellent way to save for a child's education is to put income-earning assets like corporate bonds and C.D.'s in the child's name. Under the kiddie tax rules that apply to children younger than 14, only investment incomes in excess of $1,300 is taxed at the parents' marginal rate. With interest rates currently around 5 or 6 percent, large sums can often be shifted to a child before that threshold is reached.
Table: "Have Kids, Save on Taxes"
 Table compares how income on $21,000 in bonds would be taxed if held in parent's name and if held in a child's name and reported on a separate tax return. (Source: Coopers & Lybrand)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); TAX RELIEF (78%); FAMILY (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE NADINE GORDON LEE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



624 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Behind the Gains, Unhappy People

BYLINE: By ANNA D. WILDE 

 BODY:
TO understand the effect the budget impasse in Washington is having on taxpayers, one need look no further than Washington, Mo., where, the Washington Savings Bank, 99 percent locally owned, mostly by farmers and retirees, sold out to a large St. Louis-based bank last November. Believing that Republican members of Congress would slash capital gains tax rates for 1995, the bank's directors took cash for their assets.
"We took them at their word that they were going to do this," said Winston Brunjes, former chairman of the board for the bank and a pork producer. "It wasn't a pipe dream, if you would have listened to them, it was a sure thing." 
Now, he said, as prospects for a tax plan this year grow dimmer and dimmer, former Washington stockholders must bite their nails waiting to learn if they will lose lose unexpectedly big chunks of their nest eggs. "We can't make a good business decision with this uncertainty," Mr. Brunjes complained.
Capital gains this year fall into a genre unusual in tax literature: the suspense story -- though certainly not a thriller. Filers and tax experts are annoyed at the delay.
"Nobody thought we would go into a black hole and not emerge from it," said Tom Sherman, a tax partner in the Minneapolis office of Coopers & Lybrand. "It's very hard to go to a client and say, 'I really don't know what's going to happen.' "
The stalled budget plan would have effectively set a capital gains rate of half a taxpayer's marginal rate on earned income for 1995, and possibly whittled the liability further by linking gains on assets held a long time -- like the Washington Savings Bank holdings -- to inflation. But those who bet on the Republicans now feel jilted.
John J. Castrenze, a partner with the accounting firm of Kaufmann & Castrenze, in Egg Harbor, N.J., said one client was trying to stall a potential buyer for his auto dealership. "He's afraid to make the move," Mr. Castrenze said. "It's a huge chunk he's going to have to pay that he wouldn't have had to pay."
For now, accountants and other tax planners have few definite answers for clients like the car dealer. But most advise taxpayers not to bet on a change this year, and to make no deal that is based on the assumption that capital gains rates will go down a set amount.
"My advice is going to be that the chances of retroactivity are small," said Gary C. Rohrs, a former president of the National Society of Public Accountants who practices in Missouri.
Another option for cautious taxpayers was to design an installment payment plan for large transactions that would delay big capital gains, on the assumption that a cut may be enacted for next year or possibly the year after.
"A lot of capital gains transactions were structured to delay receipt of the gain into 1996," said Michael L. Gracik, a tax partner in the Richmond, Va., firm of Keiter, Stephens, Hurst, Gary & Shreaves.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Winston Brunjes, who sold his Missouri bank shares betting on a gains cut. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WSB (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: WSB HOLDINGS INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (86%); TAX PLANNING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (72%); ACCOUNTING (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%); 

PERSON: WILDE, ANNA D JOHN J CASTRENZE (62%); WINSTON BRUNJES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



625 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Tax Preparers Aren't Ruffled by Proposals for an Overhaul

BYLINE: By MARCIA VICKERS 

 BODY:
"THE reports of our death are greatly exaggerated," said Ozzie Wenich, a spokesman for H & R Block, the nation's largest tax preparation service, responding to calls along the campaign trail to simplify the nation's income tax system, even allowing taxpayers to file postcard-size returns.
Mr. Wenich is not alone. So far, no tax professionals, whether tax preparation chains, large accounting firms or independent preparers, are lobbying Congress against proposals to adopt a flat tax or otherwise greatly simplify the system. 
 In fact, it seems the entire industry is taking a wait-and-see stance.
"It's a little premature because the flat tax issue is still evolving, but it's being talked about this year more than ever," said Phyllis Borghese, director of government relations at the National Association of Tax Practitioners, a Wisconsin-based organization of certified public accountants and other tax preparers and planners. "I think it's obvious that reform is in the air."
But no matter how the tax code may be overhauled, tax preparers are confident that people with relatively complex returns will continue to rely on tax professionals. Still, a radical change in the code could virtually eliminate the simple returns, the current 1040A and 1040EZ.
But tax preparers contend that, at least in the short-term, business should increase because people will be confused about any new system.
"I've never lost one night's sleep thinking about a flat tax," said John Hewitt, chairman and chief executive of Jackson Hewitt, the nation's second-largest tax preparation company, based in Virginia Beach, Va. "Our average customer is the Wal-Mart customer, under 40 with an income under $40,000. They'll continue to come to us for their taxes."
The Internal Revenue Service says about 50 percent of all filers use a tax preparer. Firms like Jackson Hewitt and H & R Block, which is based in Kansas City, Mo., and has a similar clientele, charge around $35 to $45 to complete a 1040 form. Tax preparation makes up, 95 percent of Jackson Hewitt's business and 68 percent of H & R Block's business, but given last week's plan to spin off Compuserve, H & R Block expects tax preparation to make up 85 to 90 percent of its business.
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, is also professing there is no cause to worry.
"We're not lobbying on the Hill for or against a flat tax," said John Hunnicutt, the group's senior vice president for public affairs. "We think our role is to analyze the various proposals and make sure there is reasoned debate."
THE "Big Six" international accounting firms -- Arthur Andersen, Coopers & Lybrand, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG Peat Marwick and Price Waterhouse -- also appear unruffled.
"Most flat tax proposals are a result of the Presidential campaigns, so we haven't gotten down to the nuts and bolts issues yet," said Bernard Shapiro, national director for tax policy at Price Waterhouse in Washington. "Right now, we're looking at the various impacts tax reform would have on the economy and our clients' business, so when it occurs we'll be ready to consult with customers regarding how they should position themselves."
Coopers & Lybrand recently introduced two sophisticated economic computer models that are able to calculate tax on 100,000 returns and provide data on how various tax proposals would affect the economy, specific industries and individual companies.
Deloitte & Touche is Sponsoring seminars and slide shows for clients on fundamental tax reform.
Despite potestations of indifference, most government liaisons for the accounting industry agree that some form of tax simplification is likely to be enacted within a couple of years, with heated discussion over transition rules, followed by a phase-in period. And once a specific structure is under serious consideration, no doubt tax preparers will spring into action, lobbying against the components they expect will affect them or their clients adversely.
"If we go to a postcard-type tax return, and your business is doing individual returns, it will put a large dent in your business, if not put you out of business altogether," said Bryan Schmitt, academic assistant at the National Endowment for Financial Education in Denver.
Perhaps H & R Block and Jackson Hewitt are placing their hope in another of Mark Twain's observations: "Habit is habit, and not to be flung out of the window by any man, but coaxed downstairs a step at a time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); H & R BLOCK INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF TAX PROFESSIONALS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF TAX PROFESSIONALS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (93%); TAX CONSULTING (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); 

PERSON: VICKERS, MARCIA

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



626 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Late-Model Tax Software Can Accelerate Filing

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
FEW consumer goods have run so counter to inflation in recent years as computer software, and nowhere is that truer than for tax-preparation programs, which have gotten much easier to use and more comprehensive, even as their prices have tumbled.
In the early 1980's, when PC's with dual floppy disk drives emerged as status symbols for executives and as the prize possessions of nerds, software publishers began offering tax-preparation programs, typically for $200 to $300, that were little more than specialized spreadsheets for the most frequently used forms and schedules. 
 They seemed great at the time: The computer crunched all the numbers, and if you needed to change an entry or add one, no problem, it recalculated the entire return within minutes. But, doubtless, Model T's seemed great in their time, too.
Today, individual income-tax software generally sells for $20 to $50 for Federal tax programs, plus $20 to $30 for optional add-ons for state returns, and handles a myriad of forms, schedules and worksheets.
What's more, the two leading programs, Taxcut and Turbotax, are remarkably easy to use, even for people who know next to nothing about computers or income taxes. Simply answer the plain-English interview questions on the screen, and the program will see to it that you've reported all your income and claimed all your deductions and credits. It takes care of filling out and calculating the return properly, almost faster than you can say "nanosecond."
Both programs are available on floppy disks or CD-ROM's, and users who take the time to read the on-screen help files and listen to the CD-ROM videos will get a personalized education on tax and financial planning as they work their way through the interview.
And there is more help available in cyberspace. The stalled budget talks in Washington have left proposed retroactive changes in the nation's tax laws unresolved, and software publishers have established home pages on the World Wide Web for this filing season to keep taxpayers posted on any changes that might be forthcoming, and to provide software updates.
Such software bells and whistles, of course, depend on today's powerful hardware -- PC's with Intel 386 chips or better for Windows disk programs and 486 or Pentium chips for CD-ROM versions, as well as a lot of hard-disk space.
ASK yourself a few questions when deciding whether to use your computer to prepare your 1995 return and to help plan your 1996 finances to whittle down tax liability: Do you have an obsessive-compulsive streak? Do you keep all receipts and financial records so you can enter the right numbers? Do you have the patience to work through the interview question by question to see how it all relates and study the on-screen resources to see where changes might be in order? If so, tax software is for you.
Practically speaking, today's tax software is a two-horse race, but the contest between Intuit's Turbotax and its cousin Macintax on the one hand and Block Financial Software's Kiplinger Taxcut on the other is like a Derby between Citation and Northern Dancer. The other entrants can be sent to the knackers.
Turbotax has a number of innovations this year. One is that it includes a version of Netscape Navigator, the Internet browser, so users can visit Intuit's home page on the Internet (http://www.intuit.com/turbotax).
 There Turbotax has already confessed to seven sins. These software flaws affect mainly people with depreciation, real estate professionals, those with Keogh plans for income within a limited range ($15,252 to $18,753) and those using the Form 1040EZ with the earned income credit.
USERS who think they might be affected can click on an item to get more detail and to learn how to correct the program's errors. In addition, Tracy Benelli, a Turbotax spokeswoman, said Intuit was sending corrected copies to any registered users who requested them.
The Web site also offers technical support and advice from Mary Sprouse and Jeff Schnepper, whose tax books, "The Money Income Tax Handbook" and "How to Pay Zero Taxes," are included on-screen in the CD-ROM version of the program.
Kiplinger Taxcut from Block Financial Software, a subsidiary of H& R Block, loads onto a computer rapidly and is remarkably easy to use. It includes software and 10 hours of free access for the Compuserve on-line service. In addition, users can find Taxcut support on America Online, Prodigy and the Web (http://www.conductor.com).
So far no major flaws have been identified in this year's Taxcut program, which includes videos from Kiplinger's editors. More important, the program's interview and on-screen help are clearly written.
One limitation is that only 23 state tax programs are available, whereas Turbotax has a program for every state that has an income tax.
Still, if you are new to tax software, don't delay the purchase until April 14. Get a program soon and work with it. And if you feel unsure of the return you prepare, go to a professional to check it. The combination of the cost for that service and for the software should still be far less than an accountant's hourly fees for going through bulging files and preparing a return.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); FLOPPY DRIVES (71%); HARD DRIVES (71%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



627 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
With Fewer Stocks to Buy, The Bulls May Stay Hungry

BYLINE: By MARCIA VICKERS 

 BODY:
IT'S not quite the incredible shrinking stock market, but there are fewer stocks around today than there were at the start of last year. And the shrinkage may be both a force that has pushed the Dow upward and a solid clue about where it may be headed.
While investors seldom think about it, stocks are goods, just like oranges or tickets to the Olympics. As such, their numbers can grow or dwindle. New stock issues -- the initial public offerings of private companies and the secondary offerings of already-public ones -- add to the supply of stocks. But when companies go private, merge with other companies or buy back their own stock, the supply shrinks. 
 From January 1995 through Friday, the net effect of these additions and subtractions was to lower the supply of stocks by $235 billion, according to the Securities Data Company. While the inflows of stocks were very high -- in fact, 1995 is second only to 1993 in the value of initial offerings -- the outflows still greatly outpaced them.
As with any goods, a smaller supply of stocks will push up their prices. Thus, the falling number of stocks -- along with the growing economy, the booming technology sector and other forces -- may be playing a role in the booming market. And if stocks get scarcer still, their prices may be more likely to keep climbing.
But market watchers read these numbers as more than just a supply trend; the data are a peek at what the smart corporate money is thinking. From new stock issues to buybacks, it is corporations themselves that act to raise or lower the number of stocks out there. If companies are buying stocks -- lowering the supply -- they must think current prices are reasonable. If they are selling, they must think the market is pricey and want to get in on the action.
Given that companies have been net buyers of stock to the tune of $235 billion since the start of 1995, they must be mostly bullish about the market's future.
"American corporations are retiring, not issuing, equity," said John Manley, a managing director of Smith Barney. "With that in mind, 'the heat' of the market seems more sustainable."
Indeed, the bullishness seems markedly strong. Consider company buybacks of their own stock. In 1995, the banking, chemical and computer industries were particularly active in repurchases, and the year set a record over all, with the announcement of 1,108 corporate buybacks carrying a collective value of $98.9 billion. Given the rule of thumb that about 40 percent of announced buybacks are accomplished, that means companies bought nearly $40 billion of their own stock last year.
And the buybacks are accelerating. This year, through Friday, 211 corporations have announced repurchases totaling $25.4 billion, with the largest being a $2.32 billion buyback planned by the Norfolk Southern Corporation. That outpaces the 187 buyback announcements, for a total of $17.7 billion, that marked the same period in 1995. Such activity, analysts say, flags companies' confidence that their stock is not priced unduly high.
"Boards of companies make repurchase decisions; you've got to assume that's smart money because they know the company better than anyone else," said Ralph Acampora, director of technical analysis at Prudential Securities.
Similarly, when companies merge or acquire other companies or go private, they are showing they think the purchased stocks are attractively priced.
Of course, when companies issue initial or secondary offerings, they are saying the opposite: that they believe the market is pricey. And while the net drop of $235 billion in the stock supply is a corporate vote for the market's reasonable prices and rosy prospects, that sum is not overly large compared with the $7.142 trillion in stocks traded on the national exchanges.
"The inflows and outflows are not at extremes," Mr. Acampora said.
Still, for average investors who are nervous about whether the market is at a top, the outflows in the stock supply can be a comfort.
"With companies increasing buybacks, it indicates that corporate America is confident," Mr. Acampora said. "I wouldn't base my entire market opinion on this, but when buybacks are happening at this volume it certainly is a whole lot better than a sharp stick in the eye."


GRAPHIC: Since January 1995, the value of stocks taken out of circulation has exceeded the value of new stock by $235 billion. That means the supply of stock has fallen -- and may be yet one more force that has pushed the market to record highs.
Graph; "Honey, They Shrank the Market"
 Graph shows monetary breakdowns of new stock and of stock taken off the market. (Source: Securities Data Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES DATA CO INC (69%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS NEW ISSUES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BONDS (72%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); 

PERSON: VICKERS, MARCIA RALPH ACAMPORA (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



628 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: The Father Coughlin of 1996

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman; Samuel G. Freedman is the author of "The Inheritance," a forthcoming book about the political evolution of three working-class families.

 BODY:
At 3 o'clock every Sunday afternoon in the early 1930's, an unemployed teamster named Edward Garrett quieted his family in their Manhattan tenement. He settled into his recliner, lit a Camel and tuned his Philco radio to WCBS. Dinner would wait until after the weekly sermon by Father Charles Coughlin, the "radio priest" who gave voice to all the unspoken rage and anxiety in Edward.
Even before the Depression had begun, the construction company that employed Mr. Garrett had gone bankrupt, the owner having poured his savings into Al Smith's failed campaign for the Presidency. The Garretts' landlord, taking pity, hired Edward as a chauffeur. But then came Black Friday and economic calamity, and as the landlord's tenants defaulted on the rent the landlord let Edward go. 
 By the time Herbert Hoover was running for re-election in 1932, Edward Garrett had four children younger than 13 and no way to support them other than through his wife Lizzie's intermittent work as a domestic. The family lost even its tenement, and moved onto a patch of land outside Ossining, N.Y., where they built a rudimentary home. There were days when Edward Garrett walked 15 miles to White Plains looking for work, unable to afford the bus fare of 35 cents. But the only job he ever found was sweeping snow from the tracks of the New York Central.
It was no wonder, then, that Edward tuned into Father Coughlin with a regularity bordering on reverence. When Father Coughlin attacked high finance and big industry, he was speaking directly to Edward's predicament. When he argued that America was suffering from a "cursed famine of currency money which blights our progress and which multiplies starvation," he was conflating the Great Hunger of Edward's Irish forebears with the Great Depression of Edward's own life.
Now, more than 60 years later, I can envision the contemporary version of Edward Garrett. Laid off from a textile mill that sent his job to the third world, he silently smolders as he watches CNN. On primary day, he votes for Patrick Buchanan.
In the past few weeks, Mr. Buchanan has been compared to everyone from Jesse Jackson to Vladimir Zhirinovsky. But rather than railing against Mr. Buchanan as a bigot or xenophobe or gremlin on the Republican Party's extreme right wing, it might be better to find the lesson in his appeal to voters.
The most instructive parallel may be Father Coughlin. Not only does Mr. Buchanan embody the Roman Catholicism and America First credo of Father Coughlin, he also, most importantly, has built his "conservatism with a heart" around "Rerum Novarum," the same papal encyclical at the core of Father Coughlin's advocacy of workers' rights.
The document, issued by Pope Leo XIII in 1891, argued that workers, as people of God, had a moral right to a living wage and to a voice in the workplace. One could hear echoes of "Rerum Novarum" in 1919, when America's Catholic bishops endorsed unemployment insurance, a minimum wage and labor laws protecting children.
One could hear the echoes in the 1920's when Al Smith, one of labor's champions, described unchecked capitalism as "the caveman's law, the law of the sharpest tooth, the angriest brow, and the greediest maw."

So the radio priest to whom Edward Garrett listened in the early 1930's was not the Father Coughlin we have come to remember -- the anti-Semite, the enemy of Franklin D. Roosevelt. No, during the Presidential campaign of 1932, Father Coughlin articulated exactly the discontents that Roosevelt sought to address. And when the new President took office and launched the New Deal, Father Coughlin adopted such slogans as "The New Deal is Christ's Deal" and "Roosevelt or Ruin!"
Edward Garrett voted for Franklin Roosevelt in 1932. A few years later, he found a job with the President's Works Progress Administration, building roads and doing construction. All around Ossining, he could see the W.P.A. at work: the artist painting a Hudson River scene on the post office wall, the crew rebuilding an elementary school so run-down it was called the "chicken coop," the man inspecting gravestones to prepare a master list of Westchester County's war veterans.
When Father Coughlin parted ways with President Roosevelt, depicting the New Deal as a Socialist threat to America and singling Jews out for the blame, Edward Garrett did not follow him. He tuned his radio to the President's fireside chats, and he and his descendants voted Democratic for the next half-century.
Who is to say where Edward might have ended up politically had not President Roosevelt understood the distress that afflicted Coughlin's audience and answered it concretely. The Buchanan boom reflects nothing so much as the failure of both heart and intellect on the part of his Republican opponents and the incumbent President.
How ironic it is that Mr. Buchanan speaks by default for the working-class voter. As a speech writer for President Ronald Reagan, he fit in comfortably with an Administration that broke a strike by the air traffic controllers' union and opposed legislation that would have warnedworkers about impending plant closings. He did not noticeably object when corporate capital -- and jobs -- fled from union strongholds in the Rust Belt to right-to-work states, maquiladoras within our own borders. He has insisted that raising the minimum wage is not vital to improving the lot of American workers.
But rather than pick away at Mr. Buchanan's record, we might better ask what Mr. Buchanan's Republican opponents and President Clinton can offer as an alternative to tariffs and nativism. All we have heard is the Panglossian forecast that the rising tide of global trade will lift all boats, and some lip service about retraining workers. It all brings to mind Herbert Hoover, the man Edward Garrett voted against.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); RELIGION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); STARVATION (68%); FAMINE (68%); CHILDREN (68%); 

PERSON: FREEDMAN, SAMUEL G; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; COUGHLIN, CHARLES (REV) JESSE JACKSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



629 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Fledgling Democracies Need U.S. Helping Hand

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "At Hour of Triumph, Democracy Recedes as the Global Ideal" (Week in Review, Feb. 18): It is said that elections are but a movement in the symphony of democracy. Without free elections, there can be no democracy -- but elections by themselves do not a democracy make. 
 Latin America, for example, began its democratic revolution more than 15 years ago. With the exception of Cuba, military regimes that held sway over all matters political have given way to elected governments. Chile's 13 years of right-wing military dictatorship were swept away through elections. The triumph of democratic forces in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Nicaragua and Panama marked a historic step toward a new era of peace, national reconciliation, and political and economic freedom in the region. Mexico, with all its problems, is moving inexorably toward a multiparty democracy after more than 60 years of one-party rule.
As you point out, new democracies in Latin America, Eastern and Central Europe and Africa are beset by corrupt, inefficient political institutions and a weak democratic culture. Moreover, they are plagued by economic difficulties, a high incidence of human rights violations, and sensitive civil-military relations.
Rather than serving as a justification for discontinuing democracy-building efforts, the fragility of these new democracies is the best argument for continued support of United States assistance for democratic initiatives abroad.
The common thread running through the United States democracy assistance programs is support for indigenous efforts to transform the political culture through civic education programs and through the strengthening of institutions of civil society.
Indeed, a review of programs of the National Endowment for Democracy and the Agency for International Development reveals substantial support -- in Africa, Latin America, Eastern and Central Europe, the Middle East and Asia -- for democratic initiatives aimed at promoting an understanding of democracy at the grass-roots, at developing organizational skills and promoting citizen participation in the political process at the local and national levels.
Now is not the time to abandon the scores of democratic activists, intellectuals, political leaders and others who are striving to build democracy in their own countries.
If democracy is to have a fighting chance against the antidemocratic forces of the extremes of left and right, we must redouble our efforts to forge partnerships between those who enjoy the benefits of democracy and those who aspire to a political and cultural pluralism, respect for human rights and the political participation of an informed citizenry.
 
ADELINA REYES-GAVILAN
New York, Feb. 18, 1996
 
The writer was senior program officer for Latin America, National Endowment for Democracy, 1989-92.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); PANAMA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); PANAMA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



630 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

Monday
 
Kevin Mitnick is expected to enter a plea in Los Angeles in a hacking case cracked by the computer security expert Tsutomu Shimomura.
 
Tuesday
 
The focus of the Republican Presidential primary season turns to Arizona, North Dakota and South Dakota, where Pat Buchanan, Bob Dole and Lamar Alexander slug out another round.
 
The Commerce Department reports retail sales for the difficult month of January, when the blizzard caused havoc in the economy. Analysts are expecting a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent, reversing the feeble three-tenths of a point gain in December.
 
Also, the Labor Department reports producer prices for January. Economists expect a rise of five-tenths of 1 percent and, excluding food and energy components, an increase of two-tenths of a percent. In December, prices increased five-tenths of a percent and, excluding food and energy components, were up only one-tenth of a point.
 
Wednesday
 
The Labor Department reports consumer prices for January; an increase of two-tenths of a point is considered likely, the same as in December. The department will also report real earnings for January.
 
The Commerce Department reports the trade deficit in goods and services for December. Economists predict a deficit of $6.9 billion, compared with $7.1 billion in November. The department will also report business inventories and sales for December. Inventories are expected to have risen two-tenths of a point.
 
The House Banking Committee holds a hearing to discuss organized crime in relation to international banking.
 
Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the chairman of I.B.M., speaks about foreign policy in a mercantile world for the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington.
 
The Tennessee Senate, hoping to lure the Houston Oilers, votes on a $55 million bond issue for a new stadium in Nashville.
 
Saturday
 
Republicans vote again for their Presidential candidate, this time in South Carolina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BONDS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); BOND ISSUES (50%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); 

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



631 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Federal Popcorn Legislation;
Pursuant to Section 902(a)(1), We'll Take Ours Buttered

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SINCE taking control of Congress, Republicans have repeatedly vowed to shrink the Government and its role in the nation's economy. But some matters are just too important to be left alone.
Popcorn, for example. The Senate this month passed a far-reaching farm bill that would scale back Federal subsidies for farmers. A little-noticed provision would establish a Federal Popcorn Board. This would promote a snack that seems to have done pretty well over the years on its own, thanks to the Indians and microwave ovens. 
 The Popcorn Board got strong support from the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, (a state that grows lots of popcorn) and from the Popcorn Institute, a trade association.
Andy Fisher, a spokesman for Mr. Lugar, a Republican Presidential candidate, said the board would operate "at no cost to the taxpayer" because it could levy assessments on popcorn processors. But the board could issue regulations, and violators would be subject to civil fines up to $1,000.
The legislation, excerpted below, is typical of the farm bill's provisions to promote commodities from canola oil to kiwi fruit. The House is to take up its version of the bill in coming weeks.
 
ROBERT PEAR
 
Subtitle A -- Popcorn
SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE
This subtitle may be cited as the "Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act."
SEC. 902. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS OF POLICY.
(a) FINDINGS -- Congress finds that --
(1) popcorn is an important food that is a valuable part of the human diet;
(2) the production and processing of popcorn plays a significant role in the economy of the United States in that popcorn is processed by several popcorn processors, distributed through wholesale and retail outlets and consumed by millions of people throughout the United States and foreign countries;
(3) popcorn must be of high quality, readily available, handled properly, and marketed efficiently to ensure that the benefits of popcorn are available to the people of the United States;
(4) the maintenance and expansion of existing markets and uses and the developments of new markets and uses for popcorn are vital to the welfare of processors and persons concerned with marketing, using, and producing popcorn for the market, as well as to the agricultural economy of the United States;
(5) the cooperative development, financing, and implementation of a coordinated program of popcorn promotion, research, consumer information and industry information is necessary to maintain and expand markets for popcorn; and
(6) popcorn moves in interstate and foreign commerce, and popcorn that does not move in those channels of commerce directly burdens or affects interstate commerce in popcorn.
(b) POLICY. -- It is the policy of Congress that it is in the public interest to authorize the establishment, through the exercise of the powers provided in this subtitle, of an orderly procedure for developing, financing (through adequate assessments on unpopped popcorn processed domestically), and carrying out an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to --
(1) strengthen the position of the popcorn industry in the marketplace; and
(2) maintain and expand the markets for all popcorn products in a manner that --
(A) is not designed to maintain or expand any individual share of a producer or processor of the market;
(B) does not compete with or replace individual advertising or promotion efforts designed to promote individual brand name or trade name popcorn products. . . .
(d) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION. -- This subtitle treats processors equitably. Nothing in this subtitle . . . provides for the imposition of a trade barrier to the entry into the United States of imported popcorn for the domestic market. . . .
SEC. 903. DEFINITIONS.
(1) BOARD. -- The term "Board" means the Popcorn Board established under section 905(b).
(2) COMMERCE. -- The term "commerce" means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
(3) CONSUMER INFORMATION. -- The term "consumer information" means information and programs that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of popcorn.
(4) DEPARTMENT. -- The term "Department" means the Department of Agriculture. . . .
(7) ORDER. -- The term "order" means an order issued under section 904.
(8) PERSON. -- The term "person" means an individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, or cooperative, or any other legal entity.
(9) POPCORN. -- The term "popcorn" means unpopped popcorn . . . that is --
(A) commercially grown;
(B) processed in the United States by shelling, cleaning, or drying; and
(C) introduced into a channel of commerce.
(10) PROCESS. -- The term "process" means to shell, clean, dry and prepare popcorn for the market, but does not include packaging popcorn for the market without also engaging in another activity described in this paragraph.
(11) PROCESSOR. -- The term "processor" means a person engaged in the preparation of unpopped popcorn for the market who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the popcorn and who processes and distributes over 4,000,000 pounds of popcorn in the market per year. . . .
SEC. 904. ISSUANCE OF ORDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL. -- To effectuate the policy described in section 902(b), the Secretary, subject to subsection (b), shall issue 1 or more orders applicable to processors. An order shall be applicable to all popcorn production and marketing areas in the United States . . .
SEC. 905. REQUIRED TERMS IN ORDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL. -- An order shall contain the terms and conditions specified in this section.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP OF POPCORN BOARD. --
(1) IN GENERAL. -- The order shall provide for the establishment of, and appointments of members to, a Popcorn Board that shall consist of not fewer than 4 members and not more than 9 members. . . .
(5) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES. -- A member of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for the expenses of the member incurred for the performance of duties for the Board. . . .
(f) ASSESSMENTS.
(1) PROCESSORS. -- The order shall provide that each processor marketing popcorn in the United States or for export shall . . . pay assessments and remit the assessments to the Board. . . .
(3) RATE. --
IN GENERAL. -- The rate of assessment prescribed in the order shall be a rate established by the Board but not more than $.08 per hundredweight of popcorn. . . .
SEC. 906. REFERENDA.
IN GENERAL. -- Within the 60-day period immediately preceding the effective date of an order, as provided in section 904(b)(3), the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among processors who, during a representative period as determined by the secretary, have been engaged in processing, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the order shall go into effect. . . .
SEC. 908. ENFORCEMENT.
IN GENERAL. -- The Secretary may issue an enforcement order to restrain or prevent any person from violating an order or regulation issued under this subtitle and may assess a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each violation . . .
SEC. 909. INVESTIGATIONS AND POWER TO SUBPOENA.
(a) INVESTIGATIONS. -- The Secretary may make such investigations as the Secretary considers necessary . . . for the effective administration of this subtitle. . . .
SEC. 910. RELATION TO OTHER PROGRAMS.
Nothing in this subtitle pre-empts or supersedes any other program relating to popcorn promotion organized and operated under the laws of the United States or any State. . . .

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL POPCORN BOARD (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL POPCORN BOARD (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPCORN; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); RETAILERS (65%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT DICK LUGAR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



632 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Before Rwanda, Before Bosnia;
Waiting for Justice in Cambodia

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.

 BODY:
AFTER the Nazis, there were the Nuremberg trials. More recently, ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and genocide in Rwanda have led to the establishment of international criminal tribunals. But out there in the middle distance lurks a monstrous catalogue of atrocities against a nation and its people that no judicial process has yet dared to touch: the Khmer Rouge era in Cambodia.
A new report for the State Department by two American legal scholars, who try to clear the air of legal and procedural questions so that justice can be done, raises some tough questions that help explain why the world has shied away so long from this great Asian tragedy. The report, completed in December, went to Congress on Feb 8. 
 Was it genocide? The two legal experts -- Steven R. Ratner, an assistant professor at the University of Texas School of Law, and Jason S. Abrams, a consultant in international law -- say that most of it was not.
Then what was it? A "vast majority of offenses" were crimes against humanity, the authors say. Does that matter? No, again. Genocide, as defined in the 1948 Genocide Convention, covers ethnic and racial minorities and groups identified by their religious beliefs; it excludes political or economic classes, at the insistence of Stalin's Soviet Union. But genocide is only one among an internationally recognized body of crimes against humanity.
 
 
 
A Precedent
 Punishing the guilty in Cambodia would establish a precedent for other countries and conflicts, where legalistic disputes over what constitutes genocide delay accounting for horrific crimes.
"What makes Cambodia different from Bosnia or from what the Nazis did is that the bulk of the victims were victims based on their politics rather than on their ethnicity," Mr. Ratner said in an interview, explaining why the report found the Khmer Rouge culpable for genocide only in their attempts to eliminate ethnic Chinese, Vietnamese and Cham citizens and Buddhist monks, all categories recognized by the Convention. The others were more like the case of the Soviet massacres of the farmers known as Kulaks "because it does concern the systematic slaughter of people opposed to the regime."
"The word genocide has a cachet, and people want to use it," Mr. Ratner said. "But we try to point out that other crimes are equally egregious."
For less than four years -- from April 17, 1975, until Jan. 7, 1979, dates seared into every Cambodian soul -- the Khmer Rouge, more radical than China's Maoists, waged a manic campaign to return Cambodian history to the Year Zero and start over as an ethnically pure Khmer nation purged not only of its minorities but also of its professional middle class. (The French-educated elite of the movement made exceptions for themselves.)
When it was over, the killing fields were littered with the bones of those who had perished in executions, forced marches, slave labor, or living conditions that left millions sick or malnourished. It was estimated that up to a million Cambodians, in a population of about 7.5 million, died.
 
 
 
More Graves
 A researcher in Yale University's Cambodia Genocide Program, also established with State Department funds, now says the number may be closer to two million. Craig Etchison, deputy director of the Yale project, said thousands of previously unknown mass graves are being located.
The number of deaths under Khmer Rouge rule has always been in dispute, but the extent of the horror -- once it became known to the world -- was never in question. Still, no international tribunal was established for Cambodia, and no subsequent Cambodian government has tried to investigate or bring to trial leaders of the Khmer Rouge, most of whom are still fighting from guerrilla bases on the Thai border.
Cambodia has produced nothing like Argentina's 1986 "Nunca Mas" report on the military's "dirty war" against dissidents. And unlike the 1992 peace agreement for El Salvador, which established a Truth Commission to investigate atrocities, the 1991 Paris accord on Cambodia had no provision for human rights accountability.
There were too many political and diplomatic interests involved. China was the most powerful backer of Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge leader, and the United States had reluctantly and under considerable fire supported him as part of a coalition opposing the government installed in Phnom Penh by the Vietnamese Army in 1979. That government, led by Hun Sen, was in effect a breakaway branch of the Khmer Rouge. Both sides were tainted. Hun Sen is again Prime Minister, one of two in an unusual power-sharing arrangement with the royalist party of King Norodom Sihanouk, who on the carousel of Cambodian history was once in alliance with the Khmer Rouge and still shares their friends in China.
Who or what can penetrate this circle of complicity? The new report, "Striving for Justice: Accountability and the Crimes of the Khmer Rouge," surveys the possibilities. There is the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which the authors advise against: "The political and psychological distance between an opinion from the U.N.'s judicial body and the lives of Cambodians suggests it will have little impact on victims, offenders or the rest of the Cambodian nation."
 
 
 
Too Many Cases
 International criminal tribunals may also have to be rejected, the report says, because the system is already overstretched and underfinanced in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. A permanent international war crimes tribunal is still a dream. Cambodian courts? There is wide agreement that they are still, in effect, nonfunctional.
The report recommends a mixed commission of Cambodians and international experts with a two-to-three-year mandate, set up perhaps by the United Nations. That gives the world collective leverage to begin prying open the period to lay the groundwork for future prosecutions. But the United Nations is only a sum of its parts, and it would require pressure from powerful nations, above all the United States, to set a process in motion. Cambodia now has a documentation center to collect evidence on the Khmer Rouge years and train Cambodians to gather and analyze that information. It has a United Nations center for human rights in Phnom Penh.
"The United States has failed to seize the initiative on this issue for too many years," the report says.
Whom to prosecute? "The era of Democratic Kampuchea involved a whirlwind of atrocities, committed by many thousands of people across an entire country trapped in a revolution often beyond control," the report says, concluding that a full accounting is ill advised and unrealistic.
Limit the search to the policymakers and chief henchmen, the authors say. But get started before it is too late.
When Congress passed the 1994 law that authorized the State Department research projects, it "clearly had in mind the prosecution of Khmer Rouge offenders," Mr. Abrams said in an interview. "A failure to address these crimes will leave open wounds that may hinder the future development of Cambodia."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the killing fields, more than a million were left dead. Newer estimates are approaching two million. (Mottier/Pasche/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (98%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA; CAMBODIA (98%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (73%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: GENOCIDE GENOCIDE (95%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ETHNICITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICS (72%); RACE & RACISM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; RATNER, STEVEN R (PROF); ABRAMS, JAMES S STEVEN R RATNER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



633 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Chinese Cold War Forecast: Costly, Dangerous

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IF the Chinese leadership has the night sweats about a democratically elected Taiwanese President asserting independence to the cheers of the American Congress, the Clinton Administration has a nightmare, too: being forced to abandon its quiet, difficult diplomacy with China and adopt a much tougher approach, like the effort to "contain" the Soviet Union after World War II.
A real cold war with China would mean, at a minimum, higher defense spending with more American troops abroad; a huge economic and trade disruption; a crisis with American allies in Asia; a much more disputatious United Nations Security Council, and probably more nuclear proliferation -- in short, a much more dangerous and less predictable world. 
 To Clinton Administration officials, who insist there must be a middle ground between appeasement and containment, the wretched prospect of a new cold war is the logical extension of Congress's love affair with Taiwan. Congressional critics -- from Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican, to Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat -- assail the Administration as too accommodating toward China on human rights, arms sales, nuclear proliferation and illegally copied music and software.
Even without buckling to Congressional pressure, the United States might be forced into confrontation should China become more aggressive as new leaders emerge to succeed Deng Xiaoping. Whether it will is, right now, anybody's guess. The Director of Central Intelligence, John M. Deutch, said in Congressional testimony last week that the C.I.A. knows "very little about Beijing's future leadership and intentions."
 
 
 
The Worst Case
 Stanley O. Roth, recently head of Asia policy at the National Security Council, said: "There may be a battle for the soul of China. It may decide not to integrate. It may decide to have a more hegemonic Middle Kingdom role in the region, and we may very well find ourselves at odds."
Say it all went wrong: What would America's Asia policy look like?
For starters, say goodbye to the peace dividend; the relative modesty of the post-cold war defense budget would be the first casualty, American officials and analysts agree. The increasingly large trade between the two nations (China is America's sixth-largest trading partner) would fall off quickly as the Administration, pushed by Congress, moved to end China's most-favored-nation trading status.
After a period in the United Nations Security Council when the United States had its way most of the time, a Chinese veto on key issues could replace the old Soviet one, dashing lingering hopes for an effective international institution to insure peace. And the China that once moved toward international responsibility -- signing nuclear nonproliferation and chemical weapons treaties, cutting off military aid to the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, helping on North Korea -- might adopt more reckless ways.
Seeking markets and influence, China might hawk weapons and nuclear-arms technology more aggressively than now, nuclearizing Pakistan against China's old rival India. It could enter into a more open and friendly relationship with Iran (already a big arms customer) to fill a new and expanding need for oil supplies. It could build up naval and marine forces with the aim of seizing Taiwan, and spurn Western human-rights concerns, not just on the mainland but also in soon-to-be-reoccupied Hong Kong and Macao.
No one thinks that China is expansionist in the Soviet style, with designs on countries where it has no prior claim. But with Marxism-Leninism-Maoism faltering as a binding ideology, its transitional leadership is making increasingly loud nationalistic noises about the disputed Spratly Islands (claimed by several nations) as well as about Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Militarily, the United States would have to think about stationing more than the current 100,000 servicemen in Asia, and about finding new naval bases -- perhaps renegotiating a lease on Cam Ranh Bay with Vietnam, an ancient Chinese rival practiced at playing geostrategic triangles.
 
 
 
Military Burden
 After pushing the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, toward more self-reliance in regional security, the United States would have to consider a new policy of military assistance to insure stability in the South China Sea, where last summer China set alarms ringing by seizing Mischief Reef in the Spratlys. In discussions with the United States, Russia, Australia and the Asean nations, China pulled back, agreeing to talks.
Would it yield again, and if not, what would happen?
A Japan that suddenly finds its moorings shaky might have to choose between the emerging regional superpower and a more distant America. Already nervous enough about China to discuss new security alliances with Washington, Tokyo would have three options, American officials say: accommodate China, rely on the United States to counterbalance Beijing or defend itself. Most Japanese leaders dislike the third option, so emphasize the second, in order to avoid the first. For how long?
Beijing has moved to enhance relations with South Korea, which remains fervently anti-Japanese. Singapore, too, has been edging closer to the emerging Chinese superpower, criticizing Western values. Beijing has been traditionally close to Thailand and is one of Myanmar's main allies. So, in a American confrontation with China, which way would Southeast Asia jump?
 
 
 
No Russia Card
 Russia has already moved to warm relations with China, settling the last territorial disputes with its giant neighbor. And if a Communist or ultra-nationalist were to be elected Russia's President this summer, it would be even less likely to cooperate should Washington seek to play a "Russian card" against China, as it played the China card against Moscow in the early 1970's.
"The main problem with a containment policy," said one senior American official, "is that unlike our approach to the Soviet Union, when we had a large number of good allies, we'd have not a single ally in Asia to help us carry it out. You'd cause great strains with Japan, Korea and all of Southeast Asia, let alone Australia."
Another senior official said: "Just thinking about the possibility is a good object lesson in why constructive engagement is the only sensible policy for the United States, even if it doesn't always work as fast as we'd like."
Nothing that the United States does will stop China from becoming a more important power, he continued. As an emerging regional power with a huge and growing economy, China is simply not containable in the traditional Soviet sense, he said; nor, he added, is it a country closed to the world or out of control.
"It is woefully premature to pull the plug on engagement now and move to containment," says Mr. Roth, the former National Security Council official. "The minor issues are proliferation and trade. The overall issue is managing China policy."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ARMS TRADE (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN NANCY PELOSI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



634 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Right Hook;
G.O.P.'s Libertarian Streak Becomes a Blur

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SOMETIMES what is important about a primary season is what doesn't happen. Exhibit A: The absence of a major Presidential candidate to speak, whole-heartedly and full-throatedly, for Republicans who support abortion rights or are otherwise uncomfortable with the conservative social agenda.
Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania made an effort, quoting Barry Goldwater's libertarian credo of a Government kept "out of our pockets, off our backs and out of our bedrooms." But Mr. Specter was gone by November, out of money and stalled in the polls in the low single digits. Steve Forbes has more middle-of-the-road positions on social issues than most of his colleagues, but he his emphasis has been on the flat tax. 
 In fact, the 1996 campaign has become another case study in the ascendancy of conservative Christians and other values-oriented conservatives in the Republican Party: people who are primarily motivated by opposition to abortion or support for prayer in the schools, laws that would make divorces more difficult to obtain, or other elements of a social and moral agenda much removed from the old hands-off libertarian strain in the party. Andrew Kohut at the Pew Center for the People and the Press calls them the moralists, and estimates that they now account for about 40 percent of the likely Republican primary vote.
This bloc is no longer an insurgency in the Republican coalition, but an integral component -- all the more influential because its members often organize so well. That is apparent in the rise of Patrick J. Buchanan and in the careful positioning of the rest of the field: the Republican coalition has been utterly transformed in the last 30 years.
With their power growing -- witness Mr. Buchanan's victory in the New Hampshire primary last week -- some Republicans fret that their party has broken faith with a proud tradition, one that advocated not only free markets but a people free from the social engineers of the left or the right. In his later years, the paterfamilias of conservatism himself, Mr. Goldwater, has periodically reminded his party that one can be a true-blue conservative and still support abortion rights and a lifting of the ban on gays in the military.
But the rise of the social conservatives was no accident in the Republican Party; it was a grand strategic design. For many years now, the party has focused on building an alliance between those voters, many of them disaffected Democrats, and the more traditional Republicans drawn by the party's economics, who are often far more centrist on the social issues.
To draw those social conservatives in, the Republican Party had to move right; a watershed moment came in 1980, when the Reagan forces rewrote the party's platform, and along the way jettisoned support for the Equal Rights Amendment and inserted an implacably anti-abortion provision that exists to this day.
Like most broad political coalitions, this one was delicate; for example, it assumed that the economic conservatives would never grow so uneasy with the party's social agenda that they would leave over it, and the social conservatives vice versa. But the Republicans managed this coalition brilliantly during the Reagan heyday, with the President's golden vision of a buoyant economy, a muscular policy abroad and a return to traditional values at home.
As Senator Olympia Snowe, a Republican moderate from Maine, said of Mr. Reagan: "He didn't drive a heavy social agenda. That wasn't front and center of what he was all about. He drove an economic agenda and an optimistic view about the potential of America."
This coalition was also artfully managed in the 1994 Congressional elections; Grover Norquist, an adviser to the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, described that election as a triumph of the "leave us alone" alliance. "They are people who want to be left alone by government -- gun owners, taxpayers, property owners, home schoolers, private schoolers." Yet as Mr. Norquist acknowledges, on some issues some social conservatives want the Government to do more than leave them alone; they want it to promote a set of values.
Not surprisingly, these tensions came to the fore once the Republicans were actually running the Government, notably during the debate over welfare legislation. Many Republicans wanted to simply convert the welfare programs to block grants, or lump sums of money, and turn them over to the states. But the influence of the social conservatives was strong, and the net result was a host of conditions and provisos intended to accomplish an array of social ends, from reducing illegitimate births to discouraging the growth of families already on welfare.
These tensions erupted after the 1992 convention, which was dominated by the theme of "family values" and featured Mr. Buchanan's famous declaration that a "religious and cultural war" was under way in this country. Many moderate Republicans found the convention divisive and exclusionary, and said so.
Still, Marshall Wittman, former legislative director for the Christian Coalition, and now an analyst at the Heritage Foundation, argues that there actually has been a real fusion in the past few years between the libertarian and social conservative strains in the party. "Most social conservatives are fearful of state intervention because they believe the state will enforce values they don't hold," Mr. Wittman maintained.
This happy fusion, though, is not in evidence in the Republican Presidential campaign -- or perhaps it's a fusion of a different sort. Many conservatives have been horrified not by Mr. Buchanan's social positions, but because of his economics, which to economic conservatives sound like the protectionist, corporate-bashing program of a traditional Democrat.
 
 
 
Diverging on the Economy
 Mr. Kohut, the pollster, says that may be no accident. There is no reason why social conservatives should not make themselves felt on economics, or have economic interests quite different from more affluent, pro-business Republicans, he suggests.
"In drawing in the social conservatives, Republicans brought onto that side of the political spectrum a lot of people who worry about jobs and health insurance," he said. "They bring their economic attitudes and discontents, and linked to this is a mistrustfulness of big corporations. We used to find it with old New Deal Democrats, now it's with the moralist Republicans."
The Republican coalition, in short, looked rather volatile in the aftermath of New Hampshire. "The failure of the presidential race so far is that no candidate has been able to weave together the different strains of Republican Party belief into a package," said William Kristol, a Republican strategist. "Reagan in '80 and Gingrich in '94 were able to more or less tie the strains together into a coherent package."
Mr. Kristol says he finds himself reading a lot lately about a past master at coalition building -- Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lineup at their last New Hampshire debate: Alan Keyes, Morry Taylor, Steve Forbes, Representative Robert K. Dornan, Senator Bob Dole, Senator Richard G. Lugar, Lamar Alexander and, at right, Patrick J. Buchanan. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ABORTION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RELIGION (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN LAMAR ALEXANDER (73%); J RANDY FORBES (72%); ARLEN SPECTER (72%); DICK LUGAR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



635 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Adversaries On Logging Inch Closer In Conference

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Delegates to a national conference on forest policies ended their deliberations today without resolving the most bitter disputes between environmentalists and the logging industry.
More than 1,200 participants to the Seventh American Forest Congress, by far the biggest and most diverse assembly in a series of conventions that goes back more than a hundred years, spent four days debating and voting on dozens of broadly written principles in search of an elusive consensus. Although they found many areas of agreement, deep differences remained over preserving ancient forests, protecting property rights and creating jobs in the woods. They also differed on whether the consumption of forest products should decrease. 
 The congress, which included landowners, union leaders, timber executives, forest rangers, hikers and bikers, academics and environmental activists, was one of the largest experiments ever conducted in group negotiations, its sponsors said.
The discussions dealt with complex issues like the meaning of the word biodiversity at a frenetic pace.
The outcome, inevitably, was ambiguous, and some principles that were agreed upon are inscrutably vague. Even so, many participants called the exercise a valuable lesson in trying to settle disputes through deliberation and consensus -- not the way the forest debate is usually conducted.
"We raised all of our issues," said Brock Evans, a well-known environmentalist, "and we found we had a great amount of sympathy, far more than we might have expected" from their traditional adversaries. Mr. Evans spent much of his time at the meeting trying, with mixed success, to dissuade disaffected grass-roots environmentalists from walking out when it became clear that, as a distinct minority, they could not hope to carry the day.
Prodded by experts on negotiations and harangued by skeptics who said the whole process had been flawed from the outset or manipulated along the way, the delegates quibbled and cajoled, hobnobbed and heckled their way through the session, sometimes engaging in pompous declamations but more often in deeply earnest dialogues.
They spoke a lingua franca speckled with phrases like sustainable development and ecosystem management, and, in the rougher moments, they called each other names like extremist, or liar, or even monster or rapist. More than once, participants broke into tears.
The forest products industry, which played a central role in organizing the meeting, declared that the results "struck a balance between environmental concerns and economic realities." Industry spokesmen called the most vocal environmental advocates in attendance extremists and urged that their priorities be rejected.
The meeting came in the middle of a fierce fight over a law that the United States Congress passed last year to encourage accelerated logging on public lands, both to remove trees that were damaged or threatened by fire and disease and to circumvent environmental litigation by requiring that sales of healthy timber proceed. Tacked onto an unrelated spending bill after limited debate, it was first vetoed but later signed by President Clinton.
The environmental movement is seeking the repeal of the legislation, which lowers the logging barriers erected by laws protecting endangered species, water quality and wildlife habitats. But the timber industry just as adamantly defends the logging law.
Industry representatives proclaimed a victory at the Forest Congress when the group overwhelmingly voted not to endorse the logging law's repeal.
On the other hand, some environmentalists were encouraged because the participants agreed by a solid margin to call for "an open legislative process" whenever timber laws were changed. And by a somewhat narrower margin, they agreed that citizens should be allowed to seek administrative and judicial reviews of logging sales under environmental laws. Those votes implied at least an oblique criticism of the logging law.
The raging debate over the logging bill dominated much of the forest meeting, even though the organizers had said from the outset that the issue should be off-limits and that the meeting was searching for much broader perspectives.
Many environmentalists questioned from the outset whether it made sense to brush aside their highest immediate priority and seek common ground on other issues. They predicted that the meeting results would be used by the logging industry and its allies in the Government, who would say that a consensus had been reached on principles that are strongly opposed by many environmentalists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FOREST CONGRESS

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FOREST CONGRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); HIKING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); PROPERTY LAW (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



636 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Corporations Under Fire

 BODY:
It cannot be an easy time in company boardrooms as the Republican campaign echoes with fiery denunciations of corporate avarice and mistreatment of workers. Patrick Buchanan's success in tapping the resentment and insecurity of voters is one thing. Bob Dole's declaration from the Republican mainstream that "corporate profits are setting records and so are corporate layoffs" may hurt even more. But give Mr. Buchanan credit for transforming the terms of the American debate. His solutions may be toxic, but the economic debate he has publicized is an important one.
Despite solid economic growth and the lowest unemployment in many years, voters are clearly unnerved by corporate restructurings and the search for cheaper labor overseas. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has spoken of the insecurity Americans feel when they see that even profitable companies are laying off people, and that free trade, free flows of capital and the extraordinary technological revolution sweeping through the workplace are making their jobs seem less secure. 
 Most significant, worker pay is falling behind inflation. Last week, for example, the Labor Department reported that median wages for full-time workers, adjusted for inflation, are nearly 3 percent less than in 1979. Men are paid almost 9 percent less while women earned 7.6 percent more than in 1979.
That is no doubt a favorable and overdue development for women, but it explains a lot about why men especially may be flocking to Mr. Buchanan, and why many working couples who had expected gains in the last 15 years feel a little cheated. Even more sobering is that although average household income grew about 10 percent between 1979 and 1994, 97 percent of those gains went to the richest 20 percent of households.
To be fair to corporations, the cost of worker benefits like health care has increased, and insecurity in boardrooms is driving at least some corporate executives to channel their profits into more technology and productivity improvements instead of more pay for workers. Still, a volatile mix of pressures on employees was bound to creep into the political discussion this year.
A few months ago, Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, predicted that there would be a "worker backlash" in the 1996 Presidential campaign. He noted, for instance, that between 1991 and 1995, nearly 2.5 million Americans lost their jobs because of corporate restructuring. These dislocations occurred, moreover, as the top pay for corporate executives soared to nearly 200 times that of the average worker, compared with only 40 times that of the average worker two decades ago.
There have been a few tentative responses to these feelings of anxiety by some companies. George David, president of United Technologies, noted that his company has eliminated 33,000 jobs in the United States since 1990, while adding 15,000 jobs abroad. But the answer to people's fears, he said, was not a return to a "fortress America" mentality but more investment in training, education and other help to workers who are laid off. Labor Secretary Robert Reich has proposed tax incentives for companies that retain and retrain employees, and several Democrats in the Senate are preparing legislation with these ideas in mind.
As the evidence of worker insecurity mounts, however, companies need to be reminded that the United States is a democracy, not just an economy. There will always be winners and losers as any economy undergoes transformation, but in an election year the losers are bound to be heard, especially in a general climate of insecurity about the future. Corporations can anticipate the problem instead of registering shock and surprise when it happens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); UTX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); WOMEN (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE DAVID (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



637 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: TRADE;
Buchanan Threatens Longtime Bipartisan Policy, Official Warns

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER 

 BODY:
An American on the World Trade Organization's highest tribunal has warned that Patrick J. Buchanan's protectionist policies could undermine a half-century of bipartisan support for opening and regulating international trade.
James L. Bacchus, the lone American among the seven members of the organization's appeals panel, said Mr. Buchanan's attacks on newly formulated methods of settling trade disputes threatened a system that Presidents and leaders of both political parties had worked hard to achieve since 1948. 
 "It's important for voters to realize this transformation is largely the work of Americans and is in the national interest of America," Mr. Bacchus said on Friday in New York. "It would be economic suicide to throw it all away now."
The appeals panel is kind of Supreme Court of global trade and the embodiment of the type of international suzerain that Mr. Buchanan and others contend has gained control over the United States' economic destiny.
Mr. Buchanan, who on Tuesday led the Republican field in the New Hampshire primary, has long portrayed the W.T.O. as an enemy of American workers and promised that if elected President he would pull the United States out of the organization.
"We cannot allow panels of foreign judges to dictate our laws to us," he said recently.
In order to prevent the appearance of bias or conflict of interest, special committee members are drawn from a pool of trade ambassadors and other experts from the W.T.O.'s 120 member-nations and cannot be citizens of countries that are parties in a complaint assigned to them.
No such bar applies to the seven appellate members who have the final say on all questions.
In this political season, the W.T.O. experts are roundly portrayed as sinister figures working against the interests of the American worker.
Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, has been criticized by Mr. Buchanan for joining the Clinton Administration's support for the 1994 global accord that set up W.T.O. machinery.
Mr. Dole ended his opposition only after the Administration agreed to give Congress the right to review W.T.O. cases in which the United States comes out on the losing side.
Mr. Bacchus said he worried that the complexities of new international agreements made voters subject to blandishments from the protectionist wing of American politics who feared any surrender of United States autonomy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BACCHUS, JAMES L HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



638 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Feb. 24;
Commerce Chief Scouts New U.S. Market: Africa

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

 BODY:
When President Jacques Chirac of France exhorted the United States not to leave Africa "in the vicious circle of exclusion" in his recent speech on Capitol Hill, it is safe to assume that what Mr. Chirac had in mind was not more visits to the continent by Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown.
Mr. Chirac's speech was consistent with a French tradition of chiding the United States for not being more generous toward sub-Saharan Africa, where France, a former colonial power, has long taken the political and commercial lead among Western nations. 
 But in a five-country African tour that began here last Sunday, Mr. Brown said that in an age when foreign aid budgets are shrinking, the United States intends to shift its emphasis in helping Africa from traditional aid programs to becoming a much more vigorous competitor for trade and investment opportunities on the continent.
"Development, rather than dependence, is what we have come to Africa to promote," Mr. Brown said at a luncheon with senior officials and business people from 20 African countries who met here Sunday.
Mr. Brown, the first American Commerce Secretary to make a tour of African countries in 15 years, urged African governments to move more quickly to strengthen laws to insure fair competition, pool their markets to attract more interest abroad and widen their selection of foreign business partners to encourage competition.
American entry into this competition, Mr. Brown said, would lower prices for African consumers, raise the quality of goods and give people more choices.
"The United States will no longer cede African markets to our trade competitors," Mr. Brown said. "We are here to lay claim to our share of the region's growing markets." The major areas American companies are interested in are transportation, telecommunications and energy.
Ivory Coast, which is France's richest market in West Africa, has been positioning itself recently as a regional economic locomotive that its leaders say could become a powerhouse modeled on Asia's rapidly developing economies.
In a gesture meant to reinforce the welcome to American businesses in a market long regarded as France's private hunting ground, Prime Minister Daniel Kablan Duncan, addressed the gathering in English.
Before he left Ivory Coast for Ghana on Monday, Mr. Brown's delegation announced the signing of a $92 million contract by an American company, Chadwick International Inc., to build 6,000 homes for an Ivorian company, the Societe de Financement et d'Investissement.
But if France, where news reports have already begun talking of an African trade war between Paris and Washington, is clearly taking Mr. Brown's message seriously, what remains to be seen, many here said, is whether other American business interests can be persuaded to follow.
Throughout his trip, which also took him to Ghana, Uganda, Kenya and Botswana, where he arrived Friday, Mr. Brown repeated to all who would hear that sub-Saharan Africa is a market of 600 million people and that the rate of return on foreign investment here, which Commerce Department data puts at 25%, is higher than in any other part of the world.
But only about 7 percent of Africa's external commerce consists of goods imported from or sold to the United States, and most of the trade takes place with South Africa and Nigeria and is limited mainly to petroleum and mining industries. American businesses have traditionally shown little interest in this continent, and have much to learn.
In many American boardrooms and front offices, those who think of Africa at all most readily associate the continent with disasters.
"These are small markets, and a lot of American businesses see them as marginal," said Robert Thornton, regional director of Citibank for West and Central Africa. "The Ivorian Prime Minister said that Africa is emerging, not sinking, but a lot of American businesses see things the other way, and a lot still needs to be done to educate them about the opportunities out here."
For others, there will be questions about what the choice of stops for the Commerce Secretary says about Washington's commitment to democracy. A wave of multiparty politics swept the continent at the turn of the decade, but now seems menaced in many places.
Of the countries Mr. Brown visited, which were chosen because of their vibrant economies, only Botswana is widely considered to have fully embraced democracy. In all of these countries, the opposition press has come under increasingly harsh criticism from the Government, and on Mr. Brown's trip President Jerry Rawlings of Ghana and President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya suggested that news reports have contributed to Africa's image problems.
In Kenya, where opposition party leaders have been attacked by thugs believed to work for state security forces, Mr. Brown praised Mr. Moi's Government for anticorruption measures, but he added that foreign business leaders, as well as human rights group, hoped for a strengthening of democracy in Africa.
"What we say to them is that there is a clear connection between the basics of democracy and human rights and what investors are looking for when they are doing business," said one senior diplomat. "Business people are concerned with anything that hints of arbitrariness, and this will cost these governments in the pursuit of their economic goals."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown says the United States intends to help Africa with more trade and investment. He ceremonially opened trading Monday morning at the stock exchange in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. (Robert Grossman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Africa highlighting Abidjan, Ivory Coast: The Commerce Secretary's African visit began in Abidjan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (99%); COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); FRANCE (95%); GHANA (92%); ASIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); KENYA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; ABIDJAN (IVORY COAST); IVORY COAST; UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (99%); COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); FRANCE (95%); GHANA (92%); ASIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); KENYA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



639 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Japan Inc. Revisited

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
I found the source of our trade problems with Japan.
I went shopping at the Mitsukoshi Department Store, the Bloomingdale's of Tokyo, and when I walked in the front door I counted 14 sales clerks in the jewelry department alone. They bowed politely and offered to help with any purchases. The American in me immediately said: "What a waste of labor! Who needs 14 sales clerks? This store needs downsizing immediately!" But that is not the Japanese instinct. And that's one reason why we have a structural trade deficit with Japan. 
 Let me explain: Unlike the U.S. or Western Europe, Japan long ago decided that its top priority was not to have the lowest prices for its consumers, not to have the highest dividends for its corporate shareholders, but to keep as many of its people (particularly the men) employed in decent paying jobs -- preferably for a lifetime with the same firm. The Japanese understand that a job gives dignity and stability to people's lives and pays off in much greater social harmony. Just walk the streets of Tokyo: few homeless sleeping on grates, no muggers lurking in the shadows.
But to maintain such high levels of employment, to keep 14 clerks behind one store counter, Japan basically had to fix the game. Japan had to regulate its economy in a way that would protect its domestic companies from foreign competition, by controlling access to its markets. That way Japanese companies could maintain a dual price system. They could charge high prices at home, in a protected market, in order to maintain full employment, while charging lower prices abroad in order to get into everyone else's market and export like crazy. That is why those who think that Japan's trade barriers will easily give way, or that its economy will be "deregulated" as its Prime Minister keeps promising, are fooling themselves.
Many economists argue that in an integrated global economy, Japan will have to become more like America. Its corporations will have to cut costs and downsize to remain globally competitive. Maybe. But for now, the Japanese are resisting that. Despite five years of zero growth, Japan still has only 3.2 percent unemployment. The sort of job massacres that have become the norm in America -- like 40,000 workers at AT&T in one chop -- have been unheard of here. "I am sure that eventually we will be somewhat forced to think American, but we are moving very slowly in that direction," says Yotaro Kobayashi, the chairman of Fuji Xerox. "For social and moral reasons, we will try to avoid going all the way to a U.S. model. We will look for a middle ground."
How? In part it will be by trying to maintain hidden trade barriers. But in part it will be by trying to maintain Japan's unique corporate values. For Japanese executives, says Glen Fukushima, vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, "laying off employees is the last option they look for, not the first." And far from being rewarded for layoffs, corporate executives here are censured for them, by both peers and the press. The first priority of a Japanese company is its employees, then come its customers and last its shareholders -- just the opposite of the U.S. corporate mentality.
Instead of ordering massive layoffs, Japanese companies cut overtime, they freeze the hiring of college grads, they freeze dividends, they offer early retirement packages, they shift workers to subsidiary companies, they shift low-skilled jobs to cheaper labor markets in Asia and keep the best jobs here, they inhibit mergers and acquisitions that lead to layoffs, they buy up U.S. high-tech companies to maintain the competitive edge that their own regulated economy sometimes stifles and they even (are you ready?) order pay cuts for top executives -- anything but lay off people.
That's why Pat Buchanan is only partly right. Yes, American workers are being hurt by unfair trade barriers erected by some foreign countries, including Japan, and the U.S. should fight hard to bring those barriers down. But U.S. workers are being hurt just as much, if not more, by the skewed sense of priorities that now dominates the U.S. business community, where executives get bonuses for massacring their employees. Maybe the economists are right. The Japanese will have to become like us. But they are sure trying not to, and it's worth watching to see if they can pull it off. This is one economic war I'm rooting for Japan to win.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: FUJI XEROX CO LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) LAYOFFS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); JEWELRY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TRENDS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



640 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1984 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN;
Candidate's Speech Is Called Code for Controversy

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Ariz., Feb. 24

 BODY:
In his run for the Republican Presidential nomination, Patrick J. Buchanan has applied several labels to himself: conservative, populist, traditionalist. In a recent radio interview, he coined one that nobody would dispute.
"I'm a controversialist," Mr. Buchanan said. 
 Mr. Buchanan revels in controversy. But as he assails illegal immigration as an "invasion" and refers to Mexicans en masse as "Jose," his critics are accusing him of taking controversy a step too far. They say Mr. Buchanan is speaking in code, using xenophobic images like those or anti-Semitic references to excite bigots without alienating mainstream voters.
In some cases, it is a matter of inflection. Today, as he so often does, he lingered with great relish on each of the syllables in Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg's three names, attacking Senator Bob Dole for voting for the "ultraliberal Ruth Ba-der Gins-burg."
In other cases, Mr. Buchanan invokes the language of the far right, in which he is so clearly fluent. "When I raise my hand to take that oath of office your New World Order comes crashing down," he said at a rally in Denver on Wednesday night, using a favorite line.
The New World Order, along with the United Nations and the Trilateral Commission, which is a policy group made up of Japanese, European and American leaders, are bete noires of the far right, which uses them to evoke images of black helicopters strafing the heartland to establish a world government. Last year, the magazine "Soldier of Fortune" reported that paramilitary groups were passing around reports that flat-bed cars carrying U.N. tanks had been spotted near Salt Lake City and that a fleet of helicopters was "ready for use by a mysterious Multi Jurisdictional Task Force (M.J.F.T.), part of the New World Order, manned by U.N. storm troopers or American soldiers under U.N. command and organized to hunt down good patriots bearing arms."
Criticism of Mr. Buchanan's language has swirled around him for years, and it is a testament either to his innocence or to his oratorical nimbleness that the debate still rages. His critics acknowledge that their charges can be hard to prove, arising as they sometimes do from inferences drawn from inflection, context, and juxtaposition of ideas in his speeches, rather than flat-out assertions. Mr. Buchanan has said repeatedly that he rejects the support of hate groups.
But every day on the campaign trail with Mr. Buchanan, the comments pop out and the questions arise again.
Trying to shout down a heckler in Gila Bend on Friday, for example, Mr. Buchanan said of illegal immigrants: "They've got no right just because you have a lousy government down there to walk across the borders of the United States of America, because this is my country."
But Marciano Murillo, 18, a native-born American whose father was a naturalized illegal immigrant, replied: "They help your economy as well as any American here helps it."
Mr. Buchanan shot back:"They've got no right to break our laws and break into our country and go on welfare, and some of them commit crimes."
But Mr. Murillo would not back down. "Why do you only see the Hispanic or the Mexican who is on welfare when you have millions of Caucasians and African-Americans who are on welfare?" he asked.
After Mr. Murillo had subsided, Mr. Buchanan was undaunted, as ever. "There isn't any name in American politics Pat Buchanan hasn't been called," he told the crowd. "Not one. But let me tell you something. I'm not intimidated. I won't back down. I'll stand my ground, you've got my word. No matter what they say about me, I will defend the borders of the United States. I will stop this massive illegal immigration cold. Period, paragraph."
In an interview on Friday night, Mr. Buchanan rejected the idea that he rhetorically winks and nods to bigots. "It's silly," he said. "There are people out there with anxieties and concerns about their future and their children's future. What I'm saying is, 'Don't turn your back on politics. Don't despair.' I'm offering them something besides the back of my hand."
He is also frequently offering them direct and sometimes harsh mockery of foreigners, using his derision to cultivate support for his immigration and trade policies. "I'll build that security fence, and we'll close it, and we'll say, 'Listen Jose, you're not coming in this time!' " he shouted to applause from an almost entirely white audience at a rally in Waterloo, Iowa three weeks ago.
In attacking trade agreements at a rally in Denver on Wednesday night, Mr. Buchanan said that he used to work for Henry Kissinger, a supporter of the North American Trade Agreement. "His German accent got thicker every year," Mr. Buchanan said -- and then, as he usually does when delivering such lines, he roared with laughter along with the crowd.
But at others times, Mr. Buchanan's oratory is a matter of inflection and therefore wide open to misinterpretation. The mystery is whether it is the bigots or those seeking evidence of bigotry who do the misinterpreting.
In a debate here Thursday night, for example, Mr. Buchanan elaborately pronounced the name of the Prime Minister of Japan. "Let me tell you something, Lamar," he needled former Governor Alexander. "This morning, Mr. Hash-ee-MO-to is a lot more concerned that Pat Buchanan's going to be sitting in that Oval Office, than if you're going to be sitting there!"
At other points, it is the historical echo of the language Mr. Buchanan uses that alarms some listeners. Why does he specifically invoke the term "America first," when it is so intimately tied to anti-Semitism? Why, similarly, does he repeatedly attack "New York banks," often Goldman Sachs, when promoting his trade ideas?
At a rally in New Hampshire, Mr. Buchanan described the decision to offer $50 billion in loans and loan guarantees to the Mexican government this way. "We finally get $50 billion, and in ten minutes, we ship it down to Mexico to give to the banks in New York," he said.
Combined with his repeated attacks on Justice Ginsberg, such comments have reignited the long-running debate over whether Mr. Buchanan is anti-Semitic.
"These are loaded terms," said David A. Harris, the executive director of the American Jewish Committee, a not-for-profit group. "If Pat Buchanan means what he says when he speaks of his Jewish friends, his Jewish doctor, his Jewish supporters, then I think he needs to rethink the kind of code language which has an eerie historical resonance to it."
He added: "If these are truly unintentional, there is no better time than now to walk away from them."
Asked in the interview about these criticisms, Mr. Buchanan laughed. "This is ridiculous," he said. "What are we, not to criticize the banks now?" He said his attacks on Justice Ginsburg were purely political. "She's a liberal, she's a liberal, she's a liberal, for heaven's sake," Mr. Buchanan expostulated.
As for the New World Order, that is "the far-right conspiracy language of choice," said Leonard H. Zeskind, who is writing a book on white supremacists and the far right. "Everybody understands that if he personally might want to hedge his bets, he's giving voice to their fears and their concerns about the loss of American national identity."
Mr. Buchanan has listed the World Trade Organization, the Trilateral Commission, the Council on Foreign Relations, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations as members of this New World Order. And, as in much of the literature of the far right, he suggests that these are all mechanisms for the creation of a single world government that would take over the United States.
"There is nothing code-word about it, I don't need to speak in code," he said on Friday night in the interview. The reason, he said, is that "there are embryonic institutions of world government being formed even as we speak."
Mr. Buchanan said he is speaking to "the people out there" who "want their country, they want to be independent." What about those who hear his speeches and imagine an invading helicopter? He laughed and said, "I've told them I'm going to shoot it down."
Mr. Buchanan acknowledged that he actively enjoys this kind of conflict. What other serious Republican candidate, when told that the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. had called him a racist and an anti-Semite, would throw back his head and laugh, as Mr. Buchanan did in Tucson on Thursday?
In New Hampshire on Monday, without a voter in sight amid a media crush, a reporter identified himself to Mr. Buchanan as a foreign correspondent.
"Foreign correspondent?" Mr. Buchanan asked. "Let's get some Americans in here." Then he laughed warmly, and listened to the question -- which was whether critics were right in saying the United States would become less tolerant under a Buchanan Administration.
"I think that's silly," Mr. Buchanan said.
 
In Their Own Words
 
PATRICK J. BUCHANAN
Speaking in Tempe, Ariz., yesterday to a landowners group:
"You know what's happening in America. Some of these laws, maybe they're well intentioned, but they've gone too far. They talk about extremism. Let me tell you: The extremists are up there in that bureaucracy. It's going on all over America. I was out in Iowa, and this farmer said one of the problems they got is this protected wetlands nonsense. He said, Let me tell you what happened to my farm. He said it rained one day very heavy and they got this spill off and it piled off in a little ravine. I didn't pay any attention to the runoff. And I had an acre of water. They grew some cattails or something. And then ducks could land there, or geese, or something. And they declared a protected wetland. And then they declared six acres around it protected wetland. So we can't use that. It's off limits now.
"I went out there and looked at that mud hole. Let me tell you: no self-respecting goose between here and Canada is going to drop into that thing. So that is what's going on: the seizure of land under the rubric of regulation. It's happening all over America.
"They're taking away the land that belongs to people, and they are taking away the property rights for which the Founding Fathers died. And the whole country is being ruled by a bunch of bureaucrats who have taken laws and have taken them to an extreme."
 
STEVE FORBES
Speaking at a political action committee meeting yesterday in Washington:
"Let me for a moment discuss one of the great moral issues in history facing us today. That is the abortion issue. A couple of weeks ago, one of my opponents, Pat Buchanan, made an appearance on 'Meet the Press' and was asked about the subject of abortion.
"Here's what Pat said: 'He said, "Steve Forbes does have a point to this extent. You can't get a constitutional amendment through both Houses of Congress right now." He continued, there is a long education process. And he concluded, we have to change the human heart.
"Pat, that's exactly my position, too, the position I've held all along, certainly since I've begun this campaign. I've stated it every time when the subject of abortions comes up. I want to make clear my feelings on this, unmistakably clear. Abortion is a tragedy. I want abortions to disappear. I want it to vanish from America.
"So I want to try a different approach to have this scourge disappear from America. We can start by banning abortions in late pregnancy barring a life-threatening emergency, banning abortions for the purpose of sex selection of a baby, ending mandatory Government funding, especially on an issue like this.
"To move beyond that we could also end fetal research and Federal funding for abortion promoters. We can do those things. We can do that today. As we move forward, we're going to need to use persuasion. We're going to need to talk to people, convince people. Can it happen in a democracy? It can."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (64%); HELICOPTERS (64%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



641 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Cuba's Nuclear Plant Project Worries Washington

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: JURAGUA, Cuba

 BODY:
From the day the Cuban Government began building an atomic reactor here in the early 1980's, American officials were alarmed at the prospect that a nuclear power plant of Soviet design and questionable safety would be going into operation less than 200 miles from American shores, but powerless to do anything about it.
So when President Fidel Castro came to this beachfront site on Cuba's southern coast three and a half years ago to tell thousands of workers that construction of "the undertaking of the century" was being suspended, the United States, along with Cuba's Caribbean neighbors, breathed a sigh of relief, certain that Cuba's nuclear adventure was finally at an end. 
 But now the project, which has already cost more than $1 billion, has suddenly come roaring back to life. Late last year, Cuba and Russia announced the formation of a joint work group to raise the $750 million they estimate will be required to finish construction of a 675-megawatt reactor here by the end of this decade, and began looking for a foreign partner.
Completion of the mothballed plant hinges on many factors, not the least of which is raising so much money during a period of severe economic austerity both here and in Russia. But Cuban officials argue that they must plunge ahead to bring down their energy costs, end their almost complete dependence on expensive imported oil and alleviate the power shortage that has resulted in rotating blackouts in Havana and other areas.
"Our country needs energy, and so far, at this point, we do not have a better option" than to resume the Juragua project, said Daniel Codorniu Pujals, head of Cuba's Nuclear Energy Agency. "We have something here that appears feasible to finish, that has people who are interested in investing in it and which will not take a long time to complete."
For the Clinton Administration, Cuba's effort to revive its nuclear power program represents a complicated challenge to American policy. The United States outlaws trade with Cuba and has limited diplomatic contact with the Castro Government, so it can do little to dissuade Cuba from going ahead with the Juragua project or to monitor its completion to insure that it conforms to American safety standards.
As a result, the Energy Department has not included Cuba in the $180 million nuclear safety program it has established with Russia and former Soviet bloc states in Eastern Europe at 59 reactors.
The limitations on contacts would also appear to prevent the sort of negotiated settlement that Cuban officials have repeatedly hinted might interest them: a buyout somewhat like the one Washington reached with North Korea to end its nuclear weapons program.
Even though Cuba has not fully ratified the treaty that makes Latin America a nuclear nonproliferation zone, the United States does not appear to think that Mr. Castro is intent on manufacturing an atomic bomb. Rather, American officials have repeatedly expressed concerns about the safety of the plant here, which uses an updated version of the VVER-440 Soviet design found in Eastern Europe.
Located in a rural sugar-growing area of the central province of Cienfuegos, the Juragua plant lies 260 miles south of Miami. A recent study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration calculated that within four days of an accident here, radioactive pollutants could be carried as far west as Texas or as far north as Washington, D.C., depending on the prevailing wind patterns at the time.
Citing declarations of reactor technicians who later defected, Cuban exile groups and conservative think tanks like the Center for Security Policy maintain that the bulk of the Soviet-made materials used in the reactor are defective.
They also say that a high percentage of welds are flawed, that key pieces of equipment have suffered corrosion from prolonged exposure to the salty tropical air and that containment procedures are inadequate.
Rejecting those accusations as propaganda, Cuban officials note that the reactor project has consistently met all international guidelines. "We've just recently passed another inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency," said Rosa Elena Simeon, Cuba's Minister of Science, Technology and the Environment, in an interview in Havana.
In addition, officials have emphasized that the reactor here differs in several ways from the unit at Chernobyl, Ukraine, which in 1986 was the site of the world's worst nuclear accident. The smaller Juragua plant is a pressurized water reactor, rather than one that uses graphite, and has additional safety features including a secondary containment dome.
Cuba has also decided to equip the plant with Western-made controls and instruments, since the original control system no longer meets Russian safety standards. No provider has yet been chosen, but talks with Siemens of Germany were under way even before the suspension of the project, which throughout the 1980's was headed by Mr. Castro's son Fidel.
The project is being enthusiastically pushed by Russia's Nuclear Energy Ministry, which diplomats say has seen most of its customer base disappear and is under pressure at home to justify its existence. Cuban officials said the third partner they were seeking would earn back a $300 million investment in seven years, but it is not clear how many foreign investors are interested.
If completed, Juragua would be the first Soviet-design reactor to be built in the Western Hemisphere or in a tropical climate. Many of the safety and design changes being incorporated into the model V-318 reactor here are prototypes that have not been tested in other Soviet reactors in Eastern Europe, though the overall design is similar to plants operating in Finland and Hungary.
Harold Denton, the former director of the Office of International Programs of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, is one of the few American officials to have visited the plant. Because the Juragua plant raises security concerns, he said, "we ought to bend the rules a little bit" regarding the embargo "and allow cooperation on safety matters."
"If they really are going to finish this thing," Mr. Denton said in a recent telephone interview, "our only choices are to complain about it and not be actively involved, or try to find some way to interact with them and make sure they have as well-trained a staff as they can get."
Cuban officials said they would welcome the involvement of the American Government and would even be interested in buying equipment from American companies if allowed to. "We need only to reach an agreement," said Rodrigo Ortiz, who as Deputy Minister of Basic Industry is one of the supervisors of the nuclear power program.
In an effort to reduce American uncertainty about its nuclear program, Cuba let two American delegations visit the plant this month and meet with Cuban Government officials. Former military officers and disarmament experts toured the site first, followed on Feb. 16 by a team of nuclear physicists and other energy experts from the Natural Resources Defense Council, a Washington-based environmental lobbying group.
During their three-hour visit, the 10-member delegation from the council, accompanied by an American reporter, inspected the reactor building, which is about three-quarters finished. The bulk of the mechanical and electrical work remains to be done, and reactor components, bathed in grease to minimize corrosion, are being stored outdoors in corrugated metal sheds.
The head of the Cuban Government's nuclear regulatory agency promised that he would not succumb to any political pressure to finish the plant.
"Until it is proven from all points of view that our facility has the same degree of safety as those in the rest of the world, this plant will not be granted a license," said Fidel Santana, director of the National Center for Nuclear Safety.
But the Americans said it was unclear how the agency's independence would be protected. And they argued to their hosts that it would make more sense, economically and in terms of safety, for Cuba to exploit renewable forms of energy like biomass, especially the bagasse left over from the sugar harvest, and solar power.
Senior Cuban officials expressed interest in developing such programs, saying they were years away from developing promising offshore oil deposits. But they also indicated that they saw alternative energy sources as an eventual complement to the nuclear power plant, not as an immediate substitute.
"Nobody is more interested in not having to build this power plant than us," said Pedro Miret, a vice president of the Council of Ministers, the Government's top executive body. "But the problem is that we have no choice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuba's decision to resume construction on a long-mothballed nuclear power plant at Juragua has revived concern among United States officials, who can do little to insure it conforms to American safety standards. (Larry Rohter/The New York Times)
 
Map of Cuba highligting Juragua: Construction of a nuclear reactor at Juragua began in the 1980's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; JURAGUA (CUBA); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



642 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: 60 Miles to Baton Rouge: A Tiny Band of Marchers

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: MOUNT AIRY, La., Feb. 23

 BODY:
Nathan Parker is a walking man. The other day he quick-stepped ahead of a tiny band of marchers, leading them around a long, green curve on the River Road in this little town northwest of New Orleans. The breeze from the Mississippi kissed his face as the words of the marchers' old civil rights spirituals drifted up against his back, pushing him toward Baton Rouge.
Mr. Parker, a retiree from New Orleans, is 58, and he has been marching for one civil rights cause or another for most of his life. He does not know whether this 60-mile march, against Gov. Mike Foster's attack on affirmative action, will register in the long history of such protests. He knows only that when the call came from the New Orleans chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., he had to get up and start walking. In the racial climate of 1996, these marchers say, standing still is the same as lying down. 
 "It's not fair," Mr. Parker said of an executive order, issued by Mr. Foster last month, to end race- and sex-based preferences in state hiring and contracting among those programs over which the Governor has control. "It's not right." Then Mr. Parker walked on.
This was not a Million Man March, only a symbolic local reaction to an act that was in itself largely symbolic: the Governor's executive order has no effect on programs that are protected by Louisiana or Federal law, and those programs account for most of the state's affirmative action operations.
Parading by the small wooden houses of blacks who live by the river, the marchers motioned for the onlookers to come along. Most of those watching waved back, and one man cheered, but none fell in step.
Indeed, as the marchers made their way through Mount Airy on Thursday, the day after they had set out from New Orleans, they numbered only about 20, all of them from the starting point, walking toward the State Capitol in Baton Rouge and a protest there on Saturday.
[The marchers joined about 6,000 protesters at the Baton Rouge rally, The Associated Press reported, while about 175 counterdemonstrating whites gathered about 12 blocks from the Capitol. There were no reports of confrontation between the two groups.
[The counterdemonstration was organized by the National Association for the Advancement of White People, founded by David Duke, a former leader of the Ku Klux Klan. Mr. Duke, who is running for the United States Senate from Louisiana, addressed the crowd, asserting that affirmative action discriminates against whites.]
Some marchers said their small number was not important. Others were disappointed, but none would concede that the era of the grass-roots protest had passed.
That method, they said, even in a modern age of E-mailed press releases and faxed declarations of outrage, is the best way to bring issues of race into hearts and living rooms, since you have to believe in something badly to blister your feet. And history has proved that if even only a few people come out to sweat and sing, reporters will sooner or later be on them like a duck on a June bug.
"I wish there had been more people," said Avery C. Alexander, a State Representative from New Orleans who is a 30-year veteran of civil rights marches. "But when you talk to someone in the year 2030, there will be a million people who will say they were here."
One difficulty in getting people out might be that the issues have become more subtle. Mr. Alexander, who is in his 80's, marched for the first time when Louisiana wanted to do away with free milk for babies in the 1960's. This is little different, he said, and to pretend otherwise "is the greatest lie ever told."
"Forty years ago we were struggling for something with great resolve," said Pat Bryant, an organizer of the trek who rode ahead of the marchers in his car, keeping watch for trouble, guiding them. "Now we are struggling to retain what we won."
If times have indeed changed since the 1960's, said Mr. Bryant, in one way nothing has. "We see the very same forces who tried to marginalize us before," he said, only with different tactics now. Mr. Foster, a Republican, announced his executive order while also declaring a state holiday for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The Governor said he believed that Dr. King would have supported him. "He just wanted an end to all discrimination based on color," Mr. Foster said.
Mr. Bryant said the cause was simpler 40 years ago, when he was baptized into the civil rights movement as a child, trying to integrate the swimming pool at Morrow Mountain State Park in North Carolina.
His father was a Carolina minister who marched in the early civil rights days. "He showed me how to be a man," said Mr. Bryant, who now lives in New Orleans and is executive director of Gulf Coast Tenants, a group that battles inequality in housing and other services.
His father also showed him the value of the march as a tool, and Mr. Bryant said the tool still worked. Blacks have used economic boycotts and other weapons to fight racism, he said, and it may take a black economic boycott of Louisiana to make Mr. Foster retreat. But there will always be marches as the spiritual backbone of the effort, he said.
Although it may have been dwarfed in size by civil rights marches of the past, the New Orleans-to-Baton Rouge march mirrored them in many ways.
The marchers were fed along the way by churches, which also provided them places to sleep. They moved to the sound of spirituals. And they carried simple homemade signs that demanded fairness.
Behind them, moving at a crawl, was a short caravan of cars with window signs that said, "Join Us."
It gets hot in this part of Louisiana, even in February, and the sweat rolled off the marchers. Among them was a cadre of middle-aged men who for 50 miles carried a paper banner, four abreast, and never tore it once.
"Where else can black people be," said Mr. Bryant, "but marching?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Representative Avery C. Alexander, top left, marched to Baton Rouge, La., and was restrained in the Governor's Mansion yesterday as he protested an executive order against affirmative action. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MEN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); RIOTS (71%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK; ALEXANDER, AVERY C (REPR); FOSTER, MIKE (GOV) NATHAN PARKER (73%); PAT BRYANT (68%); MIKE FOSTER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



643 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2804 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD MUSCLE -- A special report.;
In Era of Shrinking Budgets, Community Groups Blossom

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
In Fort Greene, Brooklyn, the residents of a housing project had had enough of the pockmarked patchwork of drug corners and shuttered stores, so they formed a neighborhood group, worked with housing police and got Government money to start a nightly patrol.
In a neighborhood in Ozone Park, Queens, people who were distressed when the city slashed its budget for youth programs last year turned to their neighborhood association, which lobbied for a $5,000 city grant and rounded up volunteers to start after-school tutoring and art classes. 
 In Broad Channel, Queens, an island community used to meager political clout and little government largess, the revitalized neighborhood association's efforts have paid off with three new parks, a new school and a new library.
Across New York City and the country, neighborhood groups are growing in number and in strength, in some cases taking on responsibilities once the sole province of government, and in other cases turning themselves into effective lobbying groups for their communities.
Fueled by shrinking local, state and Federal budgets and armed with fax machines, newsletters, a mastery of legal nuance and enthusiastic members willing to give their money and time, they are moving beyond their traditional role of pestering officials to get potholes filled and streetlights fixed.
"People see a sort of decline in quality of life, institutions like the school system deteriorating around them, and they feel that they have to get involved," said Michael Krasner, an associate professor of political science at Queens College.
In New York City, the growth in these neighborhood groups -- voluntary organizations of residents in a community, some called civic associations -- is significant, according to experts. A survey by the Citizens Committee for New York City, which trains and advises such community groups, found that their numbers had grown to 8,000 last year from 3,500 in 1977.
Communities that never organized before are forming neighborhood associations, groups that had fallen apart or fallen silent have started making noise, and immigrants have found a voice in neighborhood life through such organizations. These groups are often banding together -- forming, for example, a coalition of communities and businesses in Flushing, Queens, or an umbrella organization of neighborhoods in Manhattan.
Many of these groups are becoming partners with government agencies: They are removing their own graffiti, hiring their own security guards, refurbishing their own parks and patrolling their own schoolyards.
Last year, City Council Speaker Peter Vallone added $3,000 from his own budget to help 16 Queens neighborhood associations and businesses buy bicycles for police officers in the 115th Precinct, which spans the communities of Jackson Heights, Corona and East Elmhurst. The residents had repeatedly asked city officials for the money -- $15,000 for 15 bicycles -- but finally decided to raise the money themselves.
"Five years ago, there wouldn't have been 16 groups to do this," Mr. Vallone said. "They wouldn't have thought they could get things done."
Robert H. McNulty, the president of Partners for Livable Communities, a nonprofit organization in Washington that advises communities and cities on how to solve economic and other problems, said: "Increasingly, as resources get scarcer and the public purse to afford the nice things in life, let alone the essential things in life, is greatly reduced, most of the angry citizens' groups that were there to protest have now turned to delivering services close to home. Now, instead of hand-biting, it's hand-shaking."
The number of neighborhood organizations in New York and across the country are not documented in any formal way, but all indications suggest that their numbers have swelled in recent years. Their growth mimics an increase seen in another group that has arisen in recent years to fill in for government cutbacks -- business improvement districts in which business and property owners pay to clean, patrol and upgrade their communities.
Nationally, one snapshot of the growth of these groups is the membership list of the National Association of Neighborhoods, a Washington organization that advises block associations and other citizens groups. Membership has jumped to 2,200 this year from 2,000 last year and 1,500 five years ago. And the group's director, Ricardo Byrd, said he had recently been peppered with calls from state and local governments seeking ways to cooperate with these groups.
In Austin, Tex., neighborhood groups volunteer their time to work with a Parks Department health and nutrition program for children. In Santa Barbara, Calif., a neighborhood responded to gang shootings by organizing a block-watching program. In St. Louis, one neighborhood association has a staff of about 40 people and has set up programs like a skills bank, in which people trade hours of baby-sitting for, say, hours of plumbing, Mr. McNulty said.
These groups are taking on "a very, very important role now, because as government prunes its services, they are going to be more involved in making sure the ones they cherish get preserved," said Mitchell Moss, director of New York University's Taub Urban Research Institute. "What helps them is a crisis, and they have a crisis now."
In New York City, budget cuts are not the only force behind the growth of neighborhood groups. Political and demographic changes over the last decade have also contributed.
One factor, Mr. Krasner said, is "the decline of other institutions, the decline of political parties, the decline of the Democrats in New York City, and the disinclination of people, particularly younger people, to join political parties." In the past, these institutions would fight for their neighborhoods' share of city services and spending, considered the spoils of victory. But their influence has weakened as the role of clubhouse politics has declined.
Mr. Krasner said these institutions were seen by many as "a corrupt and dirty business that no right-thinking human being would want to get involved in."
"Civic associations are clean," he added, "They are not seen as dirty-dealing or political."
Another political force at work is the 1990 revision of the New York City Charter. The change eliminated the Board of Estimate and thus divested borough presidents of their board votes and much of their influence over the city's budget. Before the change, the borough presidents had been powerful advocates for community projects and dollars. Now, neighborhoods have found that they must vie for the attention of Council members, agency officials and the mayor's staff.
This has meant "less response on a local level to solve problems," said Sean Walsh, chairman of the United Civic Council of Queens, an umbrella group of 35 civic associations. "The borough president says, 'I ran out of money' and says 'Office of Management and Budget -- what can I do?' "
Immigrants in the city have found a new civic and political voice, spawning dozens of new groups in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. In Queens, for example, the Hillcrest Estates Civic Association had been dormant for years until George Yee, a real estate agent, revitalized it, drawing in many families from the neighborhood's growing Chinese-American community.
"A number of new emerging civic organizations are tied to immigrant populations, a Chinese association, an Indian women's group," said Alexandra Rosa, the chief of staff for Queens Borough President Claire Shulman. "The trend is that civic associations continue to be very, very focused on local issues, but they are beginning to focus on systemic issues, boroughwide issues and citywide issues."
Since these groups are largely concerned with neighborhood quality-of-life issues -- a campaign theme of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- some of them are a natural potential constituency for the Mayor. Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter said she often sat down with such groups, adding that "they're getting greater entree than they may have in the past."
Some politicians are promoting these constituents more actively. In Flushing, Queens, Councilwoman Julia Harrison encourages and helps residents to start civic associations, said her chief of staff, John Watts. Mr. Watts himself serves as president of a group called Coalition for a Planned Flushing, whose members include 45 civic associations, businesses and churches.
"The civic associations are the voters," said Mr. Vallone, the City Council Speaker. "The politicians are going to listen to the voters."
The effect of these groups, however, is difficult to measure. Even in cases where neighborhoods have got what they wanted, it is not always clear whether the associations were responsible for the changes, or whether other political or economic factors were at work. Still, communities that have weak citizens' groups or none at all seem to get noticeably left out. And, naturally, neighborhoods that are politically sophisticated fare better than those that are not.
"You can point to measurable differences for blocks that are organized," said Michael Clark, executive director of the Citizens Committee for New York City. "You can almost drive around and see the differences in the neighborhoods."
 
Start-Up
Winning the War In No-Man's-Land
In Fort Greene, Brooklyn, gunfire had been so common in the neighborhood around the Walt Whitman Houses housing project that at times "you couldn't even go to the grocery store and you had to be in by 5 P.M.," said Maxine Croft, 45, who has lived in the project almost all her life.
About a year and a half ago, Ms. Croft and another longtime resident, Roslyn Williams, began talking with housing police officers, as well as Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol about what they could do to make things better.
Officer Rafael Orozco helped them write a proposal for a $10,000 grant and Mr. Lentol's office helped them get the money. Their group, the Fort Greene Coalition, bought two-way radios and is presently training teen-agers to patrol the neighborhood and escort elderly residents to stores on Myrtle Avenue.
The Fort Greene Coalition, organized in a neighborhood that has long been improbable territory for such groups, is an example of the broader reach and increasing appeal of neighborhood associations, for both residents and politicians.
Traditionally, civic associations have been made up of homeowners in middle- class neighborhoods, and were especially prevalent and vocal in Queens. Poverty, transience and political disconnectedness have, in the past, left some residents of neighborhoods like Fort Greene feeling left out. But increasingly, residents in these neighborhoods are finding that they can get concrete results from these organizations and that politicians are learning that theirs are the voices of a neighborhood's voters.
Fort Greene is also an example of what is becoming one of the most successful civic formulas, the ability to cooperate with government officials and capitalize on government programs by finding pockets of government grant money at all levels or using neighborhood manpower to supplement government services.
"Before this, I don't know of a single group in Fort Greene that was really doing anything," said Ed Powell, the leader of Umma Group Inc., a Brooklyn organization that is training the teen-agers in the Fort Greene patrol. "The crime kept mounting. The fear in the community kept mounting. Before this, it was like a no-man's-land."
 
Expansion
Reaching Out To Newcomers
When Carl Giuffre and his girlfriend, Laura Snidersich, moved to the Tudor Village section of Ozone Park, Queens, last year, it did not take them long to decide that joining the Ozone Tudor Civic Association "just seemed like the thing to do."
Mr. Giuffre, a 34-year-old tow truck driver, had grown up in Queens but had never joined any civic group before. But over the summer, Mr. Giuffre found himself helping to prune trees, cut grass and paint mailboxes in the tidy neighborhood. Once, he even left work early to make civic meetings on time, showing up with his tow truck.
In the past, members of civic associations usually were people who believed in investing in their neighborhood because they had lived there for many years; many were older residents who had the time to attend meetings regularly and work for the group.
But increasingly, civic associations and neighborhood groups, even those that have existed for years, are building up their ranks with people like Mr. Giuffre, younger neighborhood newcomers who find a broad range of reasons for taking part in these groups. They are also reaching out to recent immigrants who have historically felt uncomfortable or unwelcome in such organizations. In this way, they are bringing in new constituencies that, experts believe, are making these groups stronger political forces.
The Ozone Tudor Civic Association has been around for decades, but has become increasingly active under its new president, Joseph Addabbo Jr. He has made a deliberate effort to reach new members, who pay dues, with the goal of sustaining the group's influence even when there is no urgent neighborhood issue.
"Every month we make sure we have some accomplishment to show people so that we get a few more people to come each time," Mr. Addabbo said. Last year, in an anti-blockbusting campaign against real estate agents who were trying to get residents to sell their houses, Mr. Addabbo got about 50 homeowners to sign "cease and desist" cards asking the agents to stop such soliciting. The cards were given to the local assemblywoman who had the state investigate some of the real estate agents.
Mr. Addabbo has also began planning family-oriented programs. He has held Halloween and Easter hunts and has sent a Santa Claus to bring gifts door to door.
More substantively, Mr. Addabbo led the drive for the city grant that allowed the neighborhood to plan its own youth program, complete with classes in computers, nutrition and art, bus trips to museums and bowling nights for parents and children.
"I thought it was the civic's place to pick up the slack," Mr. Addabbo said. "As everybody tries to fight for their slice of the pie, the civic is basically the army that's sent out to try to get as much as it can for its residents."
 
Lobbying Power
A Land Deal In Broad Channel
Just a few years ago, the 2,700 residents of Broad Channel had to make do with decaying school and library buildings and few places for their children to play.
They were also clashing with the State Department of Environmental Conservation, which, in the interest of wetlands protection, was trying to force the residents to take down the boardwalks and decks attached to their houses.
Gradually, the Broad Channel Civic Association turned itself into a potent lobbying force. Rallied by the boardwalk issue, they bent the ears of everyone from Representative Charles E. Schumer to the deputy commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation. The result was a compromise that let the residents keep their wooden structures.
Peter Wierzbowski, a 30-year-old bank officer in Manhattan who moved to Broad Channel seven years ago, joined the group. A relative newcomer in a neighborhood where mostly working class families have lived for generations, he is one of a number younger professionals who are taking the helm of neighborhood groups.
"We've learned to be a little more official and document what we do, leaving a paper trail with letters to our elected officials," Mr. Wierzbowski said. "In the past when the politicians would come to a civic meeting, they would basically do a commercial. Now when there's a question-and-answer session, in more cases than not, they are put to the task."
Using these tactics, more than 60 Broad Channel residents won the right last year to buy the land beneath their houses, which they had long been forced to lease from the city.
The civic association also persuaded the city to fix up or build three new parks, a new school and a new library. And the group has raised thousands of dollars to help refurbish a baseball field, buying the clay and the backstops and asking the Parks Department for the laborers.
And when residents complained that they had to pay a highway toll just to mail a letter at the nearest post office in the Rockaways, the group persuaded officials to work out a discounted toll for people who live in Broad Channel.
"Now we're being a little more aggressive, seeking out issues that would improve the community, rather than just prevent harm from occurring," Mr. Wierzbowski said. "If they didn't have a civic association, people would move out, because it's a matter of survival as a community."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Fort Greene Coalition offers proof of neighborhood associations' success. Its founders, Maxine Croft, right, and Roslyn Williams, met with Rafael Orozco, center, and Barton Williams, police officers who have helped improve life in the projects.(Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COLLEGE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS COLLEGE (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); LOBBYING (91%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); VANDALISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CITIES (76%); TRENDS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



644 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: SOUTH CAROLINA;
Dole Soldiers Are Set For Buchanan Brigade

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., Feb. 24

 BODY:
The South Carolina Presidential primary looms a week away as a particularly redoubtable castle for Patrick J. Buchanan's self-proclaimed peasants to storm. The well-financed legions of the Republican state machine, loyal to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, are defending the primary as the critical gateway to a string of primaries that quickly follow across the South.
More directly than in other states, the Dole defenders here are drawing the line over the issue pressed by Mr. Buchanan: job losses in the global economy. Ranking Republican officials are going directly to the voters to argue that this state, now well into economic recovery, has benefited far more than it has suffered in the assorted job shifting of modern world trade. 
 The state Republican Party scheduled the primary on Saturday in an effort to give the winner an edge in the series of Southern primaries starting on Tuesday. South Carolina's state's primary helped President George Bush in 1992 in rebuffing a Buchanan challenge.
With former Gov. Lamar Alexander's campaign nowhere in sight yet, and Steve Forbes fading after early interest, Dole campaign workers are hoping for a one-on-one showdown with Mr. Buchanan that produces a dominant Dole performance.
"Stuff has got to happen now if we're to win this thing," the Dole state campaign chairman, Chris Neeley, said on Friday.
Seventy miles to the east, in Florence, a half dozen Buchanan supporters sipped soft drinks at a roadside Shoney's and planned to teach Mr. Neeley and Mr. Dole the difference between the comforting logistics of the party machine and the genuine insurgence of voters heeding a call to political arms.
"We are working in the boondocks where the little people are," said Barbara Leonard, a party chairwoman from the Sixth Congressional District, who is joyfully bucking the establishment's endorsement of Mr. Dole. To either side of her at the table, she counted Buchanan volunteers from the state's anti-abortion movement, from Ross Perot's third-party movement and from the state's troubled textile industry.
Such is South Carolina politics, where the campaign arts of Lee Atwater, the native-born legendary political consultant, were honed in behalf of Senator Strom Thurmond, President Ronald Reagan, and a generation of campaign opportunists who have succeeded him, reading his prescribed Machiavellianism.
"Lee would tell you, every politician is virtuous when he starts out," said Tim Petersen, a boyhood friend of Mr. Atwater, "but then he has to pay back his contributors."
Like many other South Carolinians, Mr. Petersen is not yet seized by the contenders in the fast-moving roulette of state primaries. Mr. Petersen, who owns Gilligan's barbecue grill, where he tracks and feeds the politicians, thinks that South Carolina voters will prove canny enough to recognize that Mr. Buchanan is as much a Washington politician as Senator Dole.
Mr. Neeley, the Dole chairman, is one of South Carolina politics' many Atwater wannabes. Only 28, he was handed the Dole job after directing the party's forces to a historic victory in 1994 when Republicans won a majority in the State Legislature for the first time since Reconstruction.
A full-time salaried party chief for the past year, while other campaigns were nowhere to be found, Mr. Neeley commands hundreds of loyalists in 46 counties under the twin banners of Gov. David Beasley and his predecessor, Carroll A. Campbell Jr.
From the castle ramparts, Dole radio and television commercials rain like arrows on Mr. Buchanan. He is being denounced for "extreme and dangerous" positions, a man who should be believed less for his latest empathizing with lunch-bucket voters than for his earlier opinions on extending nuclear arms in the world and characterizing women as less competitive than men.
Beasley and Campbell forces have been accusing Mr. Buchanan of focusing on selective job losses in some textile mills while ignoring the larger prosperity that the state says workers enjoy because of free-trade policies rooted in aggressively courting overseas markets.
"Nonsense," said Mack Todd, owner of a textile plant in Lake City, who agrees with Mr. Buchanan that the industry is so threatened by cheap foreign wages that competitors should face the threat of tariffs. "South Carolina people are the same as New Hampshire people, hearing the drumbeat about job security." Mr. Todd said. "I been telling my workers, 'Listen carefully to Mr. Buchanan. He's the only one talking about your job. Be sure to vote.' "
On the table at Shoney's lay a copy of The State newspaper with a banner headline about the loss of 400 textile jobs this week in the small town of Iva: "Upstate's Silent Looms Weaving Votes For Buchanan."
Contradicting the message of the article, Governors Beasley and Campbell appear in Dole ads against Mr. Buchanan's proposed tariff barriers. They insist that thousands of jobs have been added in a decade of statewide industry shifts and growth, with textile revenues more than doubling, to $6.6 billion a year.
"Ask Buchanan about the former textile workers who got better paying jobs at the new BMW plant in Spartanburg," Mr. Neeley declared, summarizing the Dole case.
The group at Shoney's flatly disbelieves such information, finding anecdotal evidence about troubled mill workers more convincing. Mr. Todd noted that executives from 17 textile companies took the unusual step of meeting together on Thursday in Lake City to challenge the state government's outlook.
Ms. Leonard, underlining the group's enthusiasm for Mr. Buchanan, said: "I'm tired of wimpy men in politics. Pat talks straight, not like a wimp." She said her candidate would do better in this primary than he did in 1992. Then, President Bush won with 67 percent of the vote, while Mr. Buchanan had 26 percent and David Duke, the former leader of the Klu Klux Klan, drew 7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); TEXTILES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; DOLE, BOB (SEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



645 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Exiles Say Cuba Downed 2 Planes And Clinton Expresses Outrage

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 24

 BODY:
Two small aircraft belonging to a Cuban refugee and exile assistance group based here were shot down by Cuban Air Force MIG jet fighters off the northern coast of Cuba on Saturday afternoon, American Government officials and survivors of the incident said tonight.
President Clinton was immediately informed of the attack and tonight expressed his outrage at what he described as "the shooting down today in broad daylight of two American civilian airplanes by Cuban military aircraft." But he said the United States was not yet sure whether the confrontation had occurred over international waters or within Cuban territorial waters. 
 "I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms," Mr. Clinton said in remarks made in the suburbs of Seattle. He also said he has ordered the American Interests Section, which in the absence of normal diplomatic relations between the two nations is Washington's de facto embassy in Havana, "to seek an immediate explanation" for the attack on the two unarmed light planes.
A third aircraft was reported to have escaped the aerial confrontation and to have returned here after notifying American authorities of the attack. Four people, all of them Miami residents of Cuban descent, were said to be missing, and a United States Coast Guard search and rescue mission for them was underway tonight.
All three aircraft belonged to members of Hermanos al Rescate, or Brothers to the Rescue, a Miami-based Cuban exile group that specializes in plucking from the waters of the Straits of Florida people seeking to flee Cuba and reach the United States. Recently the group has also organized nonviolent protest flights over Cuban territory.
In a telephone interview this evening, Lt. Comdr. Marc Woodring, a spokesman for the Coast Guard here, said that a Coast Guard aircraft had located "two oil slicks, but that's about all" at "a position north of Havana" beyond the 12-nautical-mile boundary internationally recognized as the limit of Cuba's territorial waters.
Commander Woodring said two cutters were on their way to join a helicopter and a C-130 aircraft in "searching international waters for possible wreckage or debris," as well as possible survivors. Mr. Clinton said he had also ordered American military forces into the same areas to provide support for the Coast Guard operation and "to ensure that it is fully protected."
A White House spokesman, Mike McCurry, said the Coast Guard effort was being concentrated in an area about 18 nautical miles north of Havana. He added that the pilots had filed a flight plan indicating that their destination was not Cuba but the Bahamas, where the group regularly ferries food and other supplies to Cubans held in refugee camps.
American officials here said the group's flight plan would have been rejected had it indicated that the planes were bound for Cuba. George Llares, a spokesman for Brothers to the Rescue, said tonight that all three planes were engaged in "a normal search and rescue mission" when they were attacked at about 3:30 P.M., well outside Cuban territorial waters.
"I can guarantee they were in international waters," he said. Other members of the group identified the pilots of the plane that returned to Miami as Jose Basulto, leader of the organization, and Arnaldo Iglesias, and said both men were being questioned by United States Customs and other government officials tonight.
After being released, Mr. Basulto told reporters that as he approached the Cuban coast, "we called the Cuban authorities" and sent the appropriate transponder code to alert them of his plane's position, which he said was never any closer than 15 miles from Havana. He also said that "everything was recorded on tape," a copy of which he has supplied to American authorities.
Brothers to the Rescue was founded in 1991, when large numbers of Cubans began leaving the island on rafts and other rickety crafts, hoping to reach the United States and apply for political refugee status. The group was especially active during August 1994, when more than 30,000 Cubans took to the seas because of worsening economic and political conditions in their homeland.
But after the United States and Cuba signed an agreement last year that ended a 30-year-old American policy of granting political asylum almost automatically to Cuban refugees, the group shifted the focus of its activities somewhat. Though it continued to patrol the Straits of Florida in its Cessna Skymaster planes, it also began engaging in more overtly political actions directed against the Cuban Government.
In a incident last July that was widely publicized here, for instance, a Brothers to the Rescue flight buzzed downtown Havana and returned to a hero's welcome in Miami. The Cuban Government responded by moving antiaircraft guns to the waterfront and issuing a warning that it would feel free to shoot down any planes intruding into its airspace that it regarded as hostile.
Last month, another Brothers to the Rescue flight dropped hundreds of leaflets over Havana containing the text of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and condemning the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro. Several members of the group are former Cuban Air Force pilots or technicians, and as such have knowledge of Cuba's air defense system.
Cuban exiles have also clashed in recent months with the Cuban Armed Forces on the high seas, fanning the anger of exile groups to even higher levels. Last year, a flotilla of exiles protesting Mr. Castro's rule was rammed by Cuban military vessels, leaving one man dead and several others injured.
The attack on the aircraft occurred during a crackdown by Cuban authorities against dissidents and human rights campaigners on the island. More than 50 opposition figures have been arrested, detained or had their homes searched by Cuban state security officials during the last two weeks.
Those arrested have all been members of Concilio Cubano, a coalition of 130 opposition groups that had been scheduled to hold a national conference, its first, in Havana today. That meeting was called off earlier this week, though, as a result of the roundup of opposition figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE US COAST GUARD (55%); US COAST GUARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE US COAST GUARD (55%); US COAST GUARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%); BAHAMAS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); AIRLINES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); HELICOPTERS (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); SUBURBS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



646 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 6685 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to Fred Cuny?

BYLINE: By Scott Anderson; Scott Anderson has written for Harper's, Outside and other publications. This is his first article for the Magazine.

 BODY:
ASA BASAYEV BELIEVES she saw him. "I remember him because he was very big and a little bit heavy," she said. We were standing on the front steps of the burned-out municipal building in Samashki, a small agricultural town in war-battered western Chechnya, and Basayev, an elderly woman with piercing gray eyes, was pointing toward the debris-strewn main street. "I saw him passing right by here," she said. I had come to Samashki, or what was left of it, with a small entourage -- a driver, a photographer and a translator -- and a question: What happened to Fred Cuny?
At the time of my conversation with Basayev, in early November, it had been seven months since Cuny, perhaps America's preeminent disaster-relief specialist, and three of his colleagues had disappeared in Chechnya -- and nearly three months since the international efforts to find them had been called off. They were presumed dead. The manhunt, one of the most extraordinary in recent times, had not uncovered where they had been killed or why. 
 Around midday on March 31, 1995, Cuny, along with two Russian Red Cross doctors, a Russian translator and a local driver, had set out from Sleptsovskaya, in the Russian republic of Ingushetia, and headed east through the Caucasus Mountains toward the Chechnya frontier. Cuny had been to Chechnya a few months earlier, just after the tiny Russian republic had become engulfed in a war of secession. His second trip was notable for its modesty: a quick humanitarian "needs assessment" tour of an area held by Chechen-separatist rebels. He planned to be back in Moscow in a week to brief the staff of the Soros Foundation, which was sponsoring Cuny's ever-more famous -- and ever-more risky -- guerrilla-style relief projects.
Four days after driving off in a beat-up Russian-made ambulance, the driver, Ruslan Muradov, turned up at the Soros Foundation offices in Nazran, Ingushetia's capital. He was alone and on foot, and bore a cryptic note from Cuny. Betraying little anxiety, Cuny explained in the letter that he and his team had been delayed in Bamut, a rebel-held mountain town. "Everything that's happened has, of course, knocked us off schedule," Cuny wrote. "Shooting on the road, bad weather, mud on the road. . . . [I]t's most likely we will still be held up for two or three days." A postscript added by Galina Oleinik, Cuny's Russian translator, struck a very different tone: "Everything above I wrote under Fred's dictation, and now I would like to say something for myself: we, as always, have gotten into a mess. The situation doesn't depend on us. . . . If we're not back in three days, shake everyone up."
Throughout the late spring and summer an unusual array of American investigators searched for the missing party: Cuny's son, Craig, and his brother Chris, F.B.I. and C.I.A. agents, American Embassy personnel and staff members from the Soros Foundation, which spent some $80,000 a month on its investigation. At one time or another Russian intelligence officers, Chechen rebel chieftains and even a Cossack historian turned detective and a Muscovite psychic said they were looking for the Cuny team. The case brought appeals from a host of international humanitarian agencies and drew the personal involvement of President Clinton and President Ruslan Aushev of Ingushetia, as well as that of both principal protagonists in the Chechnya conflict, President Boris Yeltsin of Russia and the Chechen secessionist leader, Dzhokhar Dudayev. Everyone, it seemed, was anxious to find Fred Cuny. No one did.
What searchers found instead was a thicket of rumors and wildly conflicting theories. Most implicated the Russian Army in some way -- a revenge killing for Cuny's very public denunciations of its brutal campaign in Chechnya. A number of Americans were convinced that the end had come at the hands of Russians in Samashki. Asa Basayev seemed to agree.
She recalled seeing Cuny about the time of "the storming." For three days early last April Russian ground troops laid waste to Samashki -- indiscriminately torching houses, machine-gunning people who crossed their path, dropping hand grenades into cellars where families hid. At least 125 residents were killed. Had Cuny happened upon the massacre-in-progress and been executed by the Russians to insure he would never live to tell?
The administrator of Samashki's small, rough-hewn hospital, keeps a black-and-white photo of Cuny -- one she obtained from a search party that came through in May -- under her desk's glass cover. While she herself did not see Cuny last April, she said that many in town as well as in villages nearby believe they did. Despite the claims of Basayev and others, I never found hard evidence that Cuny had been in Samashki when the assault began, and I don't believe that's where he died. Samashki, like so many of Chechnya's towns and villages, exists in an eery, apparitional twilight, where nothing is quite what it seems. Wandering around Samashki, I recalled what a State Department officer had told me about Chechnya and its war: "I've been in a lot of bad places around the world, but I've never encountered such a murderous, lying atmosphere anywhere like Chechnya."
Underscoring the Cuny mystery is a central riddle. The last documented sighting of the missing group was in territory held by the Chechen rebels, who appear to have had little motive for harming Cuny and his colleagues. The Russian Army may have had a motive -- Cuny's outspoken condemnation of Russian conduct in the war -- but there is no proof that Cuny ever entered territory they controlled.
TRYING TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENED TO FRED CUNY in Chechnya was further complicated by the nature of the man : a 6-foot-3, 51-year-old Texan who was well known in the world of international relief yet a mystery, even to close friends and colleagues. I had received an intimation of this in September at a reception held in his honor at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. A few weeks earlier Cuny's son and his brother ended their search in Chechnya and announced their belief that the members of the group were dead. Nevertheless, the Carnegie organizers had stressed that their event was to be a "celebration" of Cuny's life and work, not a memorial service. Sipping soda or jug wine from plastic cups, the 200 or so guests gathered in the eighth-floor conference room were a veritable who's who of humanitarian-aid politics and international disaster relief: presidents of nonprofit organizations, ambassadors and diplomats, Foreign Service officers. Even Anthony Lake, the National Security Adviser, was there.
Eventually the testimonials began, and they did not soon end. For a quarter-century Cuny had traveled the globe battling the disasters wreaked by both nature and man, and there were many Cuny victories to remember. "Fred always looked beyond an immediate crisis," Morton Abramowitz, the Carnegie Endowment president, remarked. "He saw how important it was not just to save lives, but how to restore a way of life." As the United States Ambassador to Turkey in 1991, Abramowitz had watched in astonishment as Cuny orchestrated the swift return of 400,000 Kurdish refugees from the Turkish border region to their homes in Iraq, a feat that not only averted a potential health catastrophe but quite possibly a military confrontation that could have imperiled the NATO alliance.
Aryeh Neier, for years the head of Human Rights Watch and now the president of the Soros Foundation, recalled how in 1992, with astonishing ingenuity and pinpoint planning, Cuny had restored Sarajevo's water and gas systems and introduced a seed program that enabled residents to supplement their subsistence diets with vegetables grown on their apartment terraces. "The contributions Fred made to that city," Neier said, "are simply beyond anybody's ability to describe."
On and on the stories went, an exotic litany of disasters -- famine in Ethiopia and Somalia, monsoons in Madagascar, an earthquake in Armenia, war in Biafra, Sri Lanka and Guatemala -- all somehow abated by the work of Cuny and his Dallas-based consulting company, Intertect. There were also lighter moments: reminiscences of Cuny's ability to tell very convincing tall tales; recollections of the way he entranced women, many women, with his soft-spoken charm; a story of the time he arranged for the Texas Lone Star flag to replace the Stars and Stripes in Sarajevo as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, arrived on a state visit.
The accolades and anecdotes said much about Cuny -- an "American hero" in the words of several speakers -- but they also said a good deal about the treacherous post-cold-war landscape. The mid-90's are a time of messy wars in unfamiliar places -- places where borders are unclear and alliances tend to shift and blur. There has been a blurring, too, of the role played by those forces that respond to international crises, the nongovernmental organizations, or NGO's, involved in disaster relief and humanitarian assistance. Traditionally what protected these groups in such perilous places was their official neutrality, which staff members worked hard to maintain. But with less "superpower" resolve to bring these crises to an end, and more of the world's wars resulting in the wanton slaughter of civilian populations, aid organizations are increasingly involving themselves directly in social, political and even, at times, military matters.
Fred Cuny was the very personification of this phenomenon, a man working at the murky confluence of humanitarian assistance, diplomacy, military operations and intelligence -- the disaster specialist who in northern Iraq, to cite but one example, could commandeer United States Army helicopters to shuttle Kurdish guerrilla leaders across national frontiers. He had long since given up quietly cleaning up the damage the warriors had done; rather, he had become something of a warrior himself. The result was that in the Bosnias and Chechnyas of the world no one seemed to be really sure who Cuny was or what, precisely, he was up to. With his disappearance in Chechnya, a thousand hypotheses bloomed.
Even now, nearly a year after his disappearance, Cuny has not lost his power to fascinate. He remains a topic in the highest circles in Washington and Moscow, and among NGO types wherever they gather: in New York at the United Nations, in cafes in Sarajevo. Upon my return to Moscow from Chechnya, Thomas Pickering, the American Ambassador to Russia, set aside nearly two hours to question me on what I had learned, displaying a remarkable grasp of the most minute permutations of the myriad theories. Am American aid worker who had briefly assisted in the search last summer recently told me: "I find I'm constantly going over it in my mind, every little story or innuendo I heard. Not to be coldblooded about it, but a mystery like this only comes around once in a lifetime, if that."
It is a mystery that can be endlessly embroidered upon. As I left Samashki in the fall, an encounter at the Russian Army checkpoint on the western road produced a couple more random threads. By military fiat, Samashki had been "sealed" that morning -- declared off-limits to all but local residents -- and the checkpoint commander seemed somewhat chagrined to discover that an American journalist had slipped through the security perimeter. He decided to let the matter pass with a cautionary lecture.
"This is a very dangerous area for you to be visiting," he said. "Don't you know that another American has already disappeared here? His name was Fred Cuny. He was very famous, and that is where he disappeared." He pointed toward the low buildings and trees of Samashki. "You could disappear here, too."
With little prompting, he then offered a Cuny story of his own. "He was traveling with the [Chechen] terrorists and he came here to Samashki. We were able to learn even the house he was staying in. I gave all this information to the search party, but I don't know what they did with it, because I hear he is still missing. Maybe the terrorists killed him, or he was caught in a crossfire -- there was a great battle here, you know, and a lot of people died."
He gave a wry smile and motioned toward his own garrison, a muddy sprawl of bunkers, tank emplacements, mine fields and barbed wire. "It is even possible he was killed at a [Russian Army] checkpoint. After all, this is Chechnya, and you cannot trust anyone here."
SITTING IN THE GLASS ATRIUM LOBBY OF THE Freemanmillican engineering firm in Dallas, Damir Lulo recalled the last time he saw Fred Cuny. It was an evening last year in late March, just before Cuny left for Chechnya, and Lulo and his wife, Arida, had invited him over for dinner.
"There was something different about Fred that night," Lulo said. "He was quieter, more subdued than I think I'd ever seen him." Lulo had met Cuny in Sarajevo and worked with him on the water project there; his had been one of several Bosnian families Cuny had helped relocate to the Dallas area, lining them up with jobs and apartments. Cuny was more than a benefactor;Lulo considered him a close friend and made a point of getting together with him on those rare occasions when Cuny returned to his Dallas home from the world's hot spots. "I have to say I was worried about him that night," Lulo went on to say. "I think he was preoccupied by Chechnya."
Two months earlier, in late January, Cuny had made his first foray into the tiny Russian republic. The Russian military, having completed its carpet-bombing "pacification" of Grozny, the capital, was beginning to expand its campaign into the countryside, devastating villages and forcing the Chechen fighters into the wintry mountains. Under a broad-mandate contract from the Soros Foundation, Cuny had gone to Chechnya with a characteristically grandiose plan: to arrange a cease-fire between the Russians and the Chechen separatists, then lead an evacuation of the tens of thousands of civilians still trapped in the capital. Just a glimpse of Grozny told him it was futile.
Even Cuny, a veteran of some 30 war zones, had never seen anything quite like the Russians' total-war strategy in Chechnya or felt more helpless in ameliorating its effect. After meeting with several rebel leaders, including the Chechen military's commander in chief, Aslan Maskhadov, and overseeing the establishment of a small emergency medical team in the Ingushetia border town of Sleptsovskaya, Cuny left what he would later call "the scariest place I've ever been." According to a number of friends and associates, he returned to Dallas a somewhat changed man.
"I don't think Fred had really been prepared for how bad it was," said Rick Hill, Cuny's deputy at Intertect and now the acting director. "In most other war zones there's a certain method to the madness, and after awhile you learn the ground rules. In Chechnya, there were no ground rules. I think he was truly frightened by what he saw there, maybe for the first time in his life."
To Cuny's only child, his 29-year-old son, Craig, his father seemed uncharacteristically grave, even shaken, upon his return. Craig, who had spent time with his father in Sarajevo, recalled him saying: " 'Compared to Chechnya, Sarajevo had been a Sunday stroll.' He said that for sheer terror and unpredictability, he'd never seen anything like it."
But for Cuny, it seemed, fear quickly transformed into a kind of goad. Back in Dallas last March, he had the choice of a number of projects to which he could devote his considerable energies: a school reconstruction program in Albania, a water desalinization project in Bangladesh and, most ambitious of all, the establishment of what was to be called the International Crisis Group, a wholly new sort of nongovernmental organization that he and other disaster-relief specialists had been planning for some time, one that would take preemptive action against man-made disasters-in-the-making. Instead, as Cuny told Lulo at dinner last March, he was returning to Chechnya. "I thought it was a big mistake, and I was really very concerned about it," Lulo said. "After our dinner, I remember my wife and I followed Fred to his house in our car, which was not something we would normally do, and I said, 'Fred, why don't you go to Bangladesh instead?' He gave this sad sort of smile and said, 'Damir, I'm afraid the Bangladeshes of the world just don't interest me much anymore.' "
THE FIRST "BANGLADESH" TO CAPTURE CUNY'S Interest had been a modest one close to home: the plight of Mexican migrants in southern Texas. For people who knew the young Cuny it seemed a fairly surprising turn. Born the eldest of four boys to parents who had been theater people in New York before returning to their native Texas in 1952, Cuny was raised in Forest Hills, a neighborhod of Dallas, where his father managed a radio station. As a teen-ager, Fred thought of himself as a Goldwater conservative, and his youthful dream was to become a Marine pilot. He had started flying at 15 and received his license while still in high school. His plans were threatened when he was kicked out of Texas A&M and its R.O.T.C. program in 1964 --a prank went awry, the story goes, and his dorm room burned -- and they were dashed altogether a couple of years later when he was struck by a taxi while crossing a Houston street and one of his legs was shattered.
After his ignominious departure from Texas A&M, Cuny went south to the Texas Agricultural and Industrial College in Kingsville, where he studied engineering. It was there, as part of a class project, that Cuny began looking more closely at the way the local migrant workers and their families lived. "I think it was the first time Fred really came face to face with true poverty," his brother Chris recalled. "Practically overnight, he went from being this gung-ho, pro-Vietnam hawk to being a field organizer for the migrant workers." It also sent Cuny on the path of social crusader, a path he would follow the rest of his life.
He married while at Kingsville, and his son, Craig, was born there, but the marriage didn't last long, and Cuny went on to study city planning at the University of Houston. After graduating, he worked as a planner for a Houston firm, spending much of his time along the Texas-Mexico border, alleviating the problems of poor migrants with the kinds of practical solutions he would later become known for -- getting roads repaved, for example, to prevent stagnant pools of water from forming and disease-bearing insects from thriving. Then, in 1969, he found his way out of Texas and an outlet for his love of flying: he signed on with a relief agency to airlift supplies to famine-ravaged Biafra. What he saw there appalled him -- not only the callous indifference of the Nigerian Government but also what he considered the incompetence of international relief agencies. He returned to Texas and started his own consulting company, International Architects, or Intertect.
Outspoken and impolitic, Cuny criticized both nongovernmental and government entities, like the Agency for International Development, for having too many remote policy planners at the top and too many inexperienced "do-gooders" in the field. Cuny pressed for hard-nosed solutions that took the local culture and economy into account and could yield benefits long after the crisis passed. He devised simplified plans for latrine design. He advised that refugees be grouped in refugee camps by village and that their tents be arranged not in rows but around an open central area so villagers could gather. He believed in the self-help powers of hand tools and plastic sheeting.
In the mid-1980's, Cuny's focus began to shift -- away from natural disasters and increasingly toward those made by man, specifically war. "I think Fred began to realize that even he couldn't do much preemptively against a tidal wave," Rick Hill said. "Man-made disasters gave him more room for creativity." Perhaps Cuny, always restless and drawn to adventure, saw war as the ultimate challenge. As Hill put it, "Frankly, I think he liked the adrenaline rush it gave him."
This shift also marked the beginning of his acceptance into the upper echelons of American foreign policy making. He secured a place for himself one morning in April 1991 when he sat down with the American Ambassador to Turkey, Morton Abramowitz at the U.S. Air Force base in Incirli, in southeastern Turkey. Turkey, a NATO member, had been warring with its own restive Kurdish population and was now confronted with 400,000 Iraqi Kurds, who had just streamed across the frontier into Turkey to escape the onslaught of Saddam Hussein's army in the wake of Operation Desert Storm. Quite suddenly, the American military in the region found itself diverted from its war to something dubbed Operation Provide Comfort -- the goal being to return the Iraqi Kurds to their homes before an epidemic broke out in the squalid refugee camps or the Turkish Kurds began trying to draw their Iraqi brethren into their fight.
Ambassador Abramowitz had gone to operation headquarters in Incirli to discuss possible strategies with American military commanders. "Fred came to see me," Abramowitz recalled, "and he said, 'Look, I've got a plan -- we can get all the Kurds back home and resettled in two months.' Well, I'd been in Turkey for 18 months, Fred had been there for two days, and I said, 'That's great, Fred, but you're out of your goddamned mind.' He didn't blink an eye, just kept talking -- like Fred often did -- and by the end of two hours, he even had me convinced."
Going directly to Kurdish guerrilla leaders and tribal chieftains in the refugee camps, Cuny worked tirelessly to convince them that the American military would provide protection if they returned to Iraq. To buttress the point, Cuny commandeered American Army helicopters to shuttle the Kurdish leaders back to their homes so they could judge the situation for themselves.
"No one gave Fred authorization to do that," Abramowitz said, and laughed. "And no one deputized him to run the operation. Fred simply saw the vacuum there and he stepped in and filled it."
But Cuny's success in Kurdistan, and later in Bosnia, raised eyebrows. The huge water-filtration system he had built for besieged Sarajevo was flown into the city on American military transport planes; how did he swing that? The Bosnian Serbs manning the airport checkpoint never stopped the trucks hauling the system to town in parts; how did he swing that? These were not simply technical solutions to disasters. Cuny was undertaking direct negotiations with armies and rebels. He was a long way from Bangladesh.
Aid workers began whispering among themselves that Cuny might have a more than informal connection to the American intelligence community. There was almost certainly no such connection. Nevertheless, Cuny seemed to enjoy the talk, and not infrequently fueled it. Even those closest to him wondered at times what deals he made, and with whom. When asked how Cuny had managed to get the transport trucks past the Bosnian Serbs at the Sarajevo airport -- it was the Bosnian Serbs, after all, who were trying to strangle the city in every way -- Rick Hill of Intertect grinned and replied, "I never did figure out exactly how Fred did that."
Questions of how things get done can take on a life-and-death importance in war zones, for they can very quickly lead to the essential question: Which side are you on? Relief specialists and aid workers have traditionally gone about their work in ways to insure that the question never comes up. But in recent years, in Bosnia and Somalia and elsewhere, the role of nongovernmental organizations has become both larger and less strictly neutral, and this has not gone unnoticed among the warriors.
Ambassador Pickering acknowledged that this new role carries considerable dangers. "I think there's been a growing sense in the past few years of the need to intervene preemptively to forestall crises, and governments have found that nongovernmental institutions can be useful in these situations," he said. "What you are starting to see is [humanitarian] assistance deliverers playing a mediatory role in resolving problems in a way that governments often can't. The downside for these people is that it puts them at risk at a time when military types are becoming increasingly paranoid. And the smaller the conflict, the greater the paranoia."
At the time he was planning his return to Chechnya late last winter, perhaps no one in the field was more at risk than Fred Cuny. And yet he did nothing to cool things down -- no avowing neutrality, no keeping a low profile. Quite the opposite, in fact: for Cuny, Chechnya had became something of a crusade. In a much-discussed article published in The New York Review of Books last spring he described the Russian military in Chechnya as "bogged down in a fruitless combat for an objective that is ultimately meaningless." A few days after his dinner in Dallas with Damir Lulo, Cuny flew to Washington, where he met with people on the Hill and excoriated the Russian military's brutal tactics in Chechnya.
The following afternoon he was ushered into a conference room at the State Department to expound on the topic. Among the dozen or so in attendance were most of the department's top officials responsible for Russian policy. "I've never sat in on a briefing quite like it," an official who attended the meeting said. "Cuny must have talked for over an hour. I don't think any of us up until that time had really grasped just how bad the situation was, the absolute depravity of the Russian [military] operation. And I don't think you can overestimate the impact that Cuny's talk had on those of us in that room. In fact, I think if you go back and chart this thing, you'll see that it was when guys like Fred Cuny started coming in and talking to us that American policy on Chechnya changed."
Whether or not Cuny's lobbying was behind the Clinton Administration's stepped-up criticism of Russia's campaign in Chechnya, he was seen as someone with a role in shaping American foreign policy. It was a perception that began to set off alarm bells in a number of places. Particularly anxious was the Soros Foundation, which, at the behest of its founder, the billionaire-financier George Soros, had begun financing several of Cuny's projects after his success in Kurdistan.
Not long after setting up operations in Russia in 1987, the Foundation became the target of a persistent whisper campaign there charging it with being a C.I.A. front. Those whispers grew louder through early 1995; it was precisely the kind of Soros projects that Cuny was planning in Chechnya and neighboring Ingushetia -- refugee assistance, medical relief to Chechen war victims -- that seemed most suspicious. Then on the morning of March 21, three aid workers under contract to Soros who were based in Ingushetia -- Galina Oleinik, Andrei Sereda and Sergei Makarov -- were among a group of travelers stopped at a particularly notorious Russian Army checkpoint near Assinovskaya, a village in western Chechnya. After being interrogated for several hours and threatened with execution if they didn't "confess" to carrying supplies to the Chechen guerrillas, the three women detained, Oleinik among them, were hustled aboard an army helicopter and taken away for further interrogation by the Russian Federal Security Service (F.S.B.). According to Oleinik, the women were inexplicably left at an airport without any guards. Rather than wait for their F.S.B. interrogators to show up, they hitched a ride back to Nazran, the capital of Ingushetia. There, Oleinik was able to win the release of the three men still held in Chechnya, quite possibly saving them from execution.
In the wake of the Assinovskaya incident, several Foundation officials urged George Soros to consider ending the mission in the northern Caucasus or, at the very least, to remove Cuny -- whom they viewed as increasingly and noisily partisan. At this critical juncture, Cuny arrived in Moscow planning to enter a Chechnya that had grown ever-more treacherous in the months since his first visit. At many of the isolated army checkpoints Russian units were operating as little more than autonomous armed gangs, detaining, robbing and sometimes murdering travelers at random. Meanwhile, a bunker mentality had set in among the Chechen rebels, fueled by persistent reports that the Russians were infiltrating their areas with spies and agent provocateurs. The separatist rebels, or boyeviki, had begun to view any outsider as a potential enemy.
Despite the fact that a dangerous place seemed to be growing more so every day, at a meeting on March 29 the Soros administrators in Moscow bowed to Cuny's considerable powers of persuasion and agreed to extend, at least temporarily, his projects in Chechnya and Ingushetia. But they did suggest two precautions. Before leaving Moscow, Cuny was advised to first meet with Sergei Kovalev, a highly respected human rights activist who had recently returned from the northern Caucasus and knew the current situation intimately. And before considering any venture into Chechnya, Cuny should wait in Ingushetia for the arrival of Slava Mihailovich, the Soros liaison who had been overseeing the Foundation's projects in the northern Caucasus and who was en route to Ingushetia with a convoy of relief supplies.
Cuny did neither. Instead, after meeting American Embassy officials, he boarded a flight from Moscow to Ingushetia on the morning of March 30. The very next day he set out for western Chechnya accompanied by the three Soros contract employees -- the translator, Oleinik, and the two doctors, Sereda and Makarov -- who had been detained there 10 days earlier. Eschewing the paved highways that cut across the Chechen plains, the party took a grueling dirt road that led to the very heart of the Chechen war.
It was not until mid-April, some 10 days after the driver returned to Ingushetia alone, that concern over the group's whereabouts escalated to alarm. Back in Dallas the news rekindled an uncomfortable sense of premonition in Damir Lulo. "As we drove away from Fred's house that night," Lulo said, "my wife turned to me and said, 'You know, I don't think we're going to see Fred again.' "
SOON AFTER CUNY WAS REPORTED MISSING, AMERICAN officials in Moscow and Washington took note of a disturbing trend: right-wing Russian newspapers were carrying outlandish reports that Cuny was alive and well -- and working directly with the Chechen rebel leader, Dzhokhar Dudayev, as a C.I.A.-sponsored adviser. The source of these reports, the State Department privately concluded, were high officials in Russia's F.S.B., the domestic branch of the old K.G.B.. To officials in the United States this smacked of a disinformation campaign and suggested that the Russians had something to hide. Had they killed Cuny?
"Why come up with these absurd stories that Cuny is alive and working with Dudayev?" one State Department official asked. "About the only conclusion you can make is that these guys [in the F.S.B.] are throwing all this out because they're trying to cover up."
In Moscow in the fall, I met with the F.S.B. press attache, Aleksandr Mikhailov, at his office on Lubyanka Square in the old K.G.B. headquarters. "Who was Fred Cuny?" he asked rhetorically upon hearing Cuny's name. He was seated behind his desk and smoking a cigarette. "We had never even heard of Cuny until after he and the others went missing. At that time, we were asked by the American Government to help search for them, and we did so. We had our people in the field look, we contacted all the [Russian] Army commanders in the region, but we have never been able to say definitively what happened -- only that our forces were not involved in any way."
And the stories in the newspapers?
"Are there no irresponsible journalists in your country who make up stories?" he asked. "Well, we have journalists who do the same. The F.S.B. has never told these stories." (Last month, Mikhailov was stripped of his post after acting as spokesman for the Russian Government's ever-changing account of the Chechen hostage-taking fiasco in the village of Pervomayskoye.)
The specter of high-level Russian involvement in the disappearances added a whole new layer of intrigue to the hunt for Cuny. Through the summer, a steady stream of current and former American Government employees trekked to Chechnya to assist in the search -- C.I.A. agents, political affairs officers, a retired defense-intelligence colonel, even two F.B.I. agents. In Moscow, Ambassador Pickering held regular status-report meet himself confirming, Cuny was in the Bamut region -- a region held by Chechen rebels?
And what of the fact that they were detained by rebels for at least four days?
It was clear, however, that Gilayev did not want to talk about Cuny in detail. He had given his answer. The matter was closed.
IN CALLING AN END TO THEIR search in August, Cuny's brother and son posited their theory of what had happened to the missing group, blaming both sides in the war in roughly equal portions. Just before the group's arrival in Bamut, the Cunys charged, Russian intelligence agents had begun a disinformation campaign in the Bamut area suggesting that Cuny and the others were anti-Chechen spies. Duped by this "black operation," the Chechen rebels had seized and murdered the party. It was a theory the United States Government carefully shied away from endorsing, and for which there was really only one piece of concrete evidence: a "spy list" said to have circulated around Bamut carrying the names of Cuny, the translator and the two Russian doctors.
Even before arriving in Chechnya I had come to doubt this theory. In Moscow I had learned that after the Assinovskaya checkpoint incident in which the doctors barely escaped with their lives, they had been barred from returning to Chechnya by their Soros superiors. While they obviously disobeyed the directive when Cuny arrived in Ingushetia on March 30, how could Russian intelligence agents have known they would do so in time to draw up a "spy list" and circulate it around Bamut?
Eventually, near the end of my journey, I got to put this question to a Chechen fighter I will call Magomet. (He requested anonymity for fear he would be killed.) It was in Grozny, the capital, in a neighborhood that had been heavily damaged by the Russian shelling last winter. Magomet had worked on one of the Chechen search parties organized in the summer, and I had been advised to seek him out -- that he had let slip certain things that suggested he knew more than he had let on. After spending an afternoon walking around the devastated streets of downtown Grozny, he took me to a bomb-damaged house in the suburbs, where we would spend the night. Sitting at a kitchen table, and talking by candlelight while sporadic fighting went on half a mile away, Magomet began to tell me what he knew about Cuny.
"I know what happened, and there is no longer any reason for the truth not to be told," he said.
He said that Cuny and the others were executed by a band of renegade boyaviki. It happened in a bunker in the woods outside Stary Achkoi. It was on April 14, around 2 in the afternoon. There was a six-man firing squad.
"It was because the Russians sent this spy list into the area, and some of the more wild boyaviki believed it," he said.
Why didn't they kill them outright? I asked. And if they were held for 10 days, how could local commanders not have known?
"Well, maybe somebody knew," he replied warily. And as the night wore on, he began to acknowledge that two commanders, then three, then five, had known the group was being held. What was impressive in Magomet's account were the details: the precise location and time of the execution, even names of some of those in the firing squad.
The following morning his account took a new turn. "I've got something more to tell you," he said as he made tea. He seemed troubled. In a soft voice he went on to say that it went beyond local commanders -- that the final order to execute Cuny and his team had come from Gen. Abu Musayev, who was the head of Chechen counterintelligence and one of Dzhokhar Dudayev's closest advisers as well as a member of the Cuny search team Dudayev established last spring. The reason Cuny and the others were held so long, Magomet said, was that the rebels were waiting for approval from on high. "It was because of that spy list," he said again. "We were fooled."
But that's impossible, I said. The Russians couldn't have known who would be traveling with Cuny in time to have created such a "spy list." As I told Magomet what I knew about the doctors being barred from traveling to Chechnya, he became increasingly anxious and finally began to cry. "I am ashamed," he said. "Fred Cuny came here as a friend of the Chechen people and we killed him."
But why would the Chechen rebels murder such a friend?
IN MID-NOVEMBER, THE Russian authorities received a videotape from a boyeviki commander directing them to a popular Moscow park. They found buried there a 30-pound box bundled with explosives and laden with non-weapons-grade radioactive material. The Chechens had placed it there; it was a bold warning that the separatists were not only prepared to carry the war into the heart of Russia but also that they possessed radioactive material.SCOTT: FIX
Since almost the beginning of the war in Chechnya, the separatists' leader, Dudayev, has hinted that his forces possess nuclear weapons. If Dudayev actually does have them, there is one place under his control they are most likely to be: the old nuclear missile base in Lower Bamut. The Russian Government maintains that all missiles were removed from Bamut five years ago, and all nuclear material with them. Yet even if this is true -- and, given Russia's record on keeping track of its radioactive material, there is every reason to doubt it is true -- one can imagine that the Chechens would not want their bluff called.
Nowhere I traveled in Chechnya were the rebels more edgy than in Bamut, and nowhere have outsiders faced a more terrifying reception. One Russian journalist who was taken prisoner there in May was made to dig his own grave and was mock executed every morning for six days before finally being released. The group I traveled with was also detained there for a time one day, and threatened. Two cameramen with the independent Russian television network NTV disappeared in the vicinity of Bamut last June. Like Cuny and his team, they have never been found.
There would seem to be one factor determining whether a visitor to Bamut lives to tell, or not. I, like most other journalists who have made the journey, was stopped in Upper Bamut and barred from going farther. By traveling with Ruslan Muradov, a Bamut native, Cuny and the others had managed to enter Lower Bamut, the site of the nuclear missile base. Cuny surely knew of the base: did he imagine that his driver would protect him? Was he looking for something? No one will ever know. But as they drove into Lower Bamut on the afternoon of March 31, their fate may well have been sealed. Whatever they saw there -- or whatever the Chechen high command feared they saw there -- was perhaps too important to risk letting them live.
In the kitchen in that wreck of a building in Grozny, I tried this theory out on Magomet.
"I don't know, " he said warily. "I don't know what is in Bamut, except that it is a very bad place to go." He produced a map, and trailed a finger along the highways leading from Ingushetia into Chechnya. "They had the choice of all these roads," he said. "They are all good highways and were open at the time -- they could have passed with no difficulty. There was no reason to go to Bamut. It was crazy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE ROAD TO SAMJASHKI may have been the road to death for the "great friend of the Chechen people. (Stanley Greene/VU. For The New York Times) (pg. 45); One of the last photos of Cuny, in Russia, 1995. (Intertect); A PHOTOGRAPH OF CUNY distributed by a search party still remains under the desk glass of a Samashki hospital administrator. (pg. 47); PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO DISAPPEAR along this road, which is half controlled by the Russians, half by the Chechens. (Stanley Greene/VU. For The New York Times) (48); Restoring water to Sarajevo, 1993. (Peter Northall/Black Star) (pg. 49); Fighting famine in Somalia, 1993. (Judy Walgren/The Dallas Morning News) (pg. 50); CHECHEN GUERRILA COMMANDERS, like Omar Hadki, and members of Dudayev's negotiating team, may have known about Cuny's death. (pg. 51); THE CENTRAL MARKET in Grozny, the city that is a battleground. A Chechen rebel here claimed to know what had happened to CUNY. (Stanley Greene/VU. For The New York Times) (pg. 52); Helping Kurds in Iraq, 1991. (Interect) (pg. 53); THE AUTHOR AND "MAGOMET," disguised to protect his identity. (pg. 68); A RUSSIAN CONSCRIPT SOLDIER at an army chekpoint in Chechnya. (Stanley Greene/VU. For The New York Times) (pg. 82)
 
Map of Russia. (pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: SOROS FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: SOROS FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); BAMUT (CHECHNYA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ATOMIC WEAPONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (68%); MOUNTAINS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (57%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, SCOTT; CUNY, FREDERICK C FRED CUNY (97%); ASA BASAYEV (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



647 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
No Park Is an Island, As Yellowstone Proves

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT isn't possible to wrap a national park as if it were a compact disk. Developments outside a park's boundaries can seep in, and what happens inside can be felt beyond the broadest borders.
That is why a United Nations conservation committee voted in December to designate Yellowstone National Park a World Heritage Site in Danger, citing plans to dig a big gold mine just outside the park. 
 Indeed, economic growth in the greater Yellowstone region -- an area much bigger than the park itself, which is sometimes called the largest nearly intact natural ecosystem in the temperate zone -- is "one of the greatest long-term threats to the ecological integrity of Yellowstone National Park," said Michael Finley, the park superintendent. The populations of some communities are growing at the rate of 4 percent a year, he said, and if nearby counties in Idaho, Wyoming and Montana that surround the park were taken together as a single state, it would be one of the fastest growing in the country.
The biggest dispute over growth at the moment involves plans by Noranda Minerals Inc. to build a huge gold-mining operation in the Gallatin National Forest in Montana, just outside the Yellowstone boundary. Environmentalists warn that the mine's tailings impoundment, where acidic waste rock would be stored, would threaten streams that flow into the park and wetlands that provide important habitat nearby. An environmental impact statement is being drafted, and the Clinton Administration has been putting up other barriers to the development.
The mine's opponents are worried about more than water pollution, which they say could be especially serious if a catastrophic earthquake were to shake the area, where hot springs and geysers testify to the inherently unstable terrain. Phil Hocker, president of the Mineral Policy Center, an environmental group that focuses on mining issues, said that if the mine were built, the road east of the park from Cooke City, Mont., to Cody, Wyo., would be plowed all winter. That will inevitably increase traffic through the park on the section of road from Cooke City west to Gardiner, Mont., he said, and that will mean more winter visitors.
Indeed, the increase in winter visits to the park is just one of the new stresses it faces from beyond its borders, its managers say. Although far more people visit in the summer months, the number who come in the winter is also growing about five times as fast as those who come in summer, partly because many winter visitors are not traveling from afar, but live within easy driving distance of the park and come back repeatedly.
In 1990 the park wrote a 10-year estimate of the increase in the number of winter visitors; the projections for the year 2000 were surpassed in 1992, Mr. Finley said.
Snowmobiles are one of the most popular ways to visit the park in winter: up to 2,000 enter each day at the season's peak. But their noise and exhaust cause environmental problems. They can disturb wildlife in a season when food is scarce and bodily energy must be conserved, and they emit significantly more carbon monoxide and particulate matter than cars.
The Park Service has begun researching the problems. In one partial remedy, a new "green" lubrication oil for the snowmobiles' two-stroke engines is being sold at park refueling stations. (Unlike auto engines, two-stroke engines mix the oil that lubricates them with the gasoline that they burn.) But Mr. Finley has also called for public meetings this month to discuss whether to limit snowmobile access. It's not an easy question, he said; limiting access inside the park might just push snowmobiles out into already overcrowded national forests nearby.
As the snowmobiles migrate into the park every winter, the park's bison migrate out, sometimes onto adjacent cattle-grazing land. There, hundreds of them are shot each year because ranchers fear that they spread brucellosis, a bovine disease. Under legal pressure from the State of Montana, the park has proposed a new, temporary plan for controlling the bison, capturing them or chasing them back into the park when possible, testing them for the disease, and allowing them to range unmolested on some public lands outside the park. Infected bison or those that trespass too far will be shipped to slaughterhouses.
In Yellowstone Lake, meanwhile, foreign trout have arrived. Lake trout, introduced accidentally or illegally, were discovered there two years ago, and they are decimating the native cutthroat-trout population. Unless costly steps are taken, park officials say, the world-famous cutthroat fisheries in the Yellowstone River between the lake and the upper falls will be destroyed. As always, there will be a ripple effect: 42 species of mammals and birds, including bald eagles and grizzly bears, eat the native trout.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FAL (TSX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (82%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (82%); SIC1031 LEAD & ZINC ORES (82%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORANDA MINING INC XSTRATA CANADA CORP (82%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORANDA MINING INC UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; GALLATIN NATIONAL FOREST; UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; GOLD; MINES AND MINING; SNOWMOBILES; POPULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NATIONAL PARKS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); METAL ORE MINING (90%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (72%); WETLANDS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); WATER QUALITY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996



648 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 12; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTIC CITY;
Trump's Michelangelo

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

 BODY:
MICHAEL IRVIN carries a beeper and drives a BMW. "I'm no starving artist," he said affably, contemplating the latest of 30 murals he is painting for the Trump World's Fair Casino, opening in April.
"I am paid extremely well for my work," he added. "I could drive a Porsche, but I don't have to. I'm not that kind of a guy." 
 Nor, Mr. Irvin insisted, is Donald J. Trump, who for three years has been his patron and, in Mr. Irvin's words, "a close personal friend."
"If the truth were known, Donald's more a normal kind of guy than you'd think," Mr. Irvin said. "He doesn't believe in paying $80 million for a van Gogh. He'd ask me to paint it instead."
He mentioned a mural he painted in the nursery at Mr. Trump's private apartment at the Trump's Castle casino hotel. It shows Mr. Trump's wife, Marla, as a mermaid, looking over their daughter's crib. "They really love it," he said.
Mr. Irvin, 32, a Detroit native, freely talked of parties he attended with Mr. Trump, meetings at which he advised Mr. Trump on casino design details, tete-a-tetes in which the two analyzed each other's signatures, and their philosophy about art.
They met after Mr. Trump saw a 1993 CNN feature depicting Mr. Irvin as an entrepreneur who was thriving in a recessionary economy. Mr. Trump had a project in mind.
"He wanted me to paint 'the biggest picture in the world' on the Taj Mahal parking garage," Mr. Irvin said. "I took a look at the Taj and tried to see myself hanging on a scaffold, working for a year outdoors in all kinds of weather for $2 million. I told him I'd rather work indoors."
He went on to paint some 20 murals and trompe l'oeil design details in the Taj Mahal in such unlikely locations as the casino's simulcast betting area and around the hotel's indoor swimming pool.
An entirely self-taught illustrator, Mr. Irvin dropped out of art school and barely survived as a freelance artist until, at 22, he sold his services to a suburban Detroit shopping mall. For $10,000 he painted a trompe l'oeil mural of a mall shop on the Sheetrock and plywood used to cover an empty storefront. Alfred Taubman, the shopping mall developer and chairman of Sotheby's, the fine-art auction house, was so impressed that he had Mr. Irvin do similar work at other malls.
"As the economy got worse, more stores closed, and every time a store closed in one of his malls, I got another job," Mr. Irvin recalled. "And it wasn't just covering up empty space. I was a legitimate attraction. People would come up to me and talk to me while I worked."
Of the 200 murals he has painted in 10 years, Mr. Irvin estimates that about half were of the "disposable" variety in shopping malls. Others, he said, still hang in hotels and banks.
In 1993, Mr. Irvin said, he was paid as much as $70,000 for a mural, "and that didn't include the paint." He said he took a pay cut when he moved to Atlantic City to become the full-time executive creative director at the Taj Mahal.
Mr. Irvin resigned from the Taj Mahal in October when Mr. Trump commissioned him to paint 30 murals for the conversion of the Trump Regency Hotel, now a part of Trump Plaza, into the World's Fair Casino.
Since November, Mr. Irvin and his assistant, Susan Daly, have worked on this commission nearly every day. They spend about two days sketching the mural from photographs and period detail supplied by a researcher, then three to four days painting canvases ranging in size from from 5 by 9 feet to 18 by 20. Each mural represents a world's fair or national exposition from history in a Social Realist style reminiscent of Thomas Hart Benton.
Next month Mr. Irvin will do his first work for casinos that are not in the Trump family, but he said he expected to do more work for his patron in the future.
"There's one large unpainted space that could be a mural, and there's talk of me doing one that would, you know, honor Donald," Mr. Irvin said. "But we'll have to be careful how we hang it. This is a casino and his name is on it, and people do lose money and occasionally get mad. It makes sense not to put anything with Donald's picture on it where people can get to it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Irvin in front of his mural of the 1904 St. Louis exposition at the Trump World's Fair Casino, scheduled to open in April. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP WORLD'S FAIR CASINO (ATLANTIC CITY) TRUMP'S CASTLE FUNDING INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP WORLD'S FAIR CASINO (ATLANTIC CITY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ART; MURALS; CASINOS PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); CASINOS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: IRVIN, MICHAEL; TRUMP, DONALD; KENT, BILL DONALD TRUMP (92%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



649 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX;
All for One, One for All

BYLINE: By MARK GREEN; Mark Green is New York City's Public Advocate.

 BODY:
AT first it doesn't sound very cooperative, I admit. The day after the Regional Plan Association released its third long-range plan, warning of dire consequences if the people and governments of the tristate metropolitan region didn't work together to solve common problems, my office released a report that was sharply critical of the most important interstate agency we have: the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
The report documented how the agency -- which operates the region's major airports and shipping ports, the Hudson River crossings, the PATH system and much else -- has systematically favored New Jersey over New York in the last 15 years, spending 52 percent of its capital budget on New Jersey even though that state accounts for only 29 percent of the port region's population and 34 percent of the Port Authority's revenues. 
 New Jersey operations of the Port Authority lost $588 million from 1980 to 1993, while New York operations generated $669 million. And the authority heavily subsidizes drivers and riders from New Jersey. Although the city subway fare has increased three times since 1987, to $1.50 today, the PATH fare is still $1; round-trip tolls on the Hudson River crossings are $4, compared to $6 for crossings of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority.
Why, we asked, should city straphangers, who make 50 percent less on average than New Jersey PATH riders, pay 50 percent more to get to work, especially since subway fares pay 60 percent of operating costs, while PATH fares pay just 25 percent?
I don't expect New Jerseyans to fork over extra money cheerfully every time they cross the Hudson just to satisfy New Yorkers' sense of fairness. But the larger point of our critique of the Port Authority -- like the point of the R.P.A.'s new long-range strategy -- is that the relationship between the states needs to be looked at in a new way.
Instead of perpetuating disparities that fuel interstate rivalry, we need a regional ethic of all for one and one for all. Unless we figure out how to finance capital investment so we have a seamless, efficient transportation system linking New York and New Jersey, the suburbs and the central cities, we won't be competitive with Munich, Paris, London, Phoenix and the Pacific Rim in the global economy of the 21st century.
While all of us like low fares and tolls, the Port Authority's patterns of investment in New York have put the entire region at a disadvantage. Simply equalizing fares and tolls could generate $170 million a year. The authority could use this money to finance $1 billion for redevelopment in the port region. These additional funds would create thousands of construction jobs and begin the task of upgrading and extending the region's transportation system.
While New Yorkers are of course concerned about any bias in capital spending, we are equally concerned that interstate bidding wars for jobs have served only to deplete needed public revenues for investment and encouraged companies threatening to flee. We need to develop a truly regional body that will be able to resist corporate extortion, represent all of our interests fairly, integrate our mass-transit systems and create economic growth in our inner cities.
While there is no shortage of work to be done in New York City, Newark or the entire metropolitan region, there has been a shortage of economic vision and political will. Just as the founders of the Port Authority, like the authors of the first regional plan in 1929, had a vision for the metropolitan region, we must decide what our future will look like -- and develop ways to finance it.
In light of the Regional Plan report and our critique, I urge the Governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to bring together leaders from all over our region to begin a discussion of how to work together better to expand our lagging economy. We cannot afford to enter the 21st century with a plan from the early 20th.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (66%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); PORT AUTHORITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (66%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; TRANSPORTATION PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); BUDGETS (74%); CITIES (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); ETHICS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



650 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 5; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
Reasons to March: Bill Bradley on the Costs of Poverty and Racism

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from "Time Present, Time Past" (Alfred A. Knopf, 1996), a political memoir by Senator Bill Bradley.
Thirty-seven million Americans live in poverty. Ten million are black. Nearly 54 million Americans earn under $35,000 a year. Slightly more than eight million of them are black. Almost six million of the country's 97 million households earn over $100,000 a year. Of these households, 170,028 are black. When it comes to distribution of wealth, the disparity is even greater. The median net worth for white households in 1991 was $44,408. For black households, it was $4,604.
The problem of the poor is inadequate economic growth unfairly shared. When growth soars, the wealthy benefit disproportionately, which partly explains why the wealthiest 0.5 percent of Americans own 37 percent of the financial assets and 56 percent of all private business assets. When economic growth plummets, the wealthy lose, but they have more flexibility and options to protect themselves than do the poor, who stand defenseless, watching their jobs go and their savings dwindle. For politicians in tough economic times to take the frustration of white workers and channel it toward black workers bespeaks a callous mean-spiritedness. It will do nothing to improve the standard of living of either poor whites or poor blacks. Affirmative action didn't cause poverty, and it there were no affirmative action poverty would remain. The African-American that a poor white has to make room for because of affirmative action seems insignificant as a job threat in comparison with government mismanagement of the economy or companies that fire workers for short-term boosts to the bottom line. If whites of modest means could see their class interest as clearly as they see what they think is their racial interest, they would stand a chance of advancement -- perhaps even through interracial political solidarity. 
 But even well-off whites need to see how racism hurts their long-term self-interest. In this global economy, Americans can't compete with the burden of an increasingly larger population in poverty or just above the poverty line. A society 40 percent of whose citizens have high skills, 40 percent low skills, and 20 percent no skills cannot be a prosperous society. If America can't offer all its citizens the hope of a higher living standard through work, then the American dream will become a nightmare and we will all be at each other's throats. Only by reducing poverty sharply and providing increased job opportunities will America be able to maintain its optimism.
Racial thinking obstructs America from seeing how to reduce poverty, because many in the white majority view many blacks as undeserving and unwilling to work. But to refuse more resources to fight poverty because you don't want to help blacks actually hurts more whites than blacks, because poor white people outnumber poor black people by 13 million. Only be reducing poverty, the bulk of which is white, can Americans achieve economic security. Only by ending racial thinking can America sharply reduce poverty. White America has to see its own self-interest clearly.
Nowhere is the issue of race more urgent or less candidly faced than in urban America. Race and the American city are inextricably bound together in fact and in the public perception. The people who live in America's cities are poorer, sicker and less educated, and their circumstances are more violent than at any point in my lifetime. The physical problems are obvious: old housing stock, deteriorated schools, aging sewers and bridges, a diminished manufacturing base, a doctor-starved health-care system that fails to immunize against measles, much less educate about AIDS. The jobs have disappeared. The neighborhoods have been gutted. The tax base has withered. A genuine depression has hit cities, with unemployment in some areas at the levels of the 1930's. Rather than devising ways to cut poverty, too many politicans talk only about affirmative action or welfare.
What is less obvious in urban America is the crisis of meaning. Without meaning, there can be no hope; without hope, there can be no struggle, there can be no personal betterment. Absence of meaning, derived from overt and subtle attacks from racist quarters over many years and furthered by an increasing pessimism about the possibility of justice, offers a context for chaos and irresponsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL (SEN) BILL BRADLEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



651 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2336 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Population Making Inroads on the South Fork

BYLINE: By MERYL SPIEGEL 

 BODY:
FIVE years ago a young man from Mexico City who identified himself as Juan left his family and illegally crossed the border to the United States. With no prospects of earning a living and with a wife and two children to feed, he hoped to find a better life here.
Instead of heading toward California like most Mexican immigrants, Juan traveled to join his brother-in-law on the South Fork, where he was immediately employed as a painter. 
 "He told us it was a safe place, less crowded than the city and that our children would receive better care," Juan said in Spanish.
Sister Cathi Kugler, a social worker for Apostolado Hispano, a Roman Catholic program on the South Fork, translated the interview with Juan.
Juan, 35, is one of many workers from Latin countries, including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico and Nicaragua, who are settling on the South Fork.
Hispanic immigrants had historically been attracted to the region to be migrant field workers in the growing season and dishwashers and maids in the tourist season. But as winter approached they frequently returned to their home countries.
Despite the fact that many continue to be seasonally unemployed, more immigrants are staying longer and calling for their families.
The community is growing quickly, because of a "colony effect," Sister Cathi said, adding that after a family member finds work, other relatives, as well as their children, often follow. And as the community grows, schools, municipalities and church groups are helping the immigrants cope with their problems.
In 1990, 812 Hispanic people lived in the Town of East Hampton, accounting for 5 percent of the population, and 1,201, or 2.6 percent, lived in the Town of Southampton, according to Census figures from Roy Fedelem of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
On Long Island, Hispanic people made up 6.3 percent of the population in 1990, the second largest minority group after blacks. Spanish-speaking people are the fastest-growing segment, and, Mr. Fedelem projected that in the Census for the year 2000 they would surpass blacks.
Asians, however, including Chinese, Filipinos, Indians and Koreans, are the fastest-growing minority group by percentage on Long Island, Mr. Fedelem added. In 1990, 2.4 percent of Long Islanders were Asian, compared with 1 percent in 1980. Large groups of Asians have settled in several North Shore communities, including Hempstead, North Hempstead and Oyster Bay.
Because many Hispanic immigrants are not legal, officials say, it is difficult to estimate their numbers on the South Fork.
But Anthony T. Rosalia, editor of El Mensajero, or The Messenger, a free newspaper in Southampton, said he thought that the number of Hispanic people more than doubled since 1990. He estimated that 2,500 Hispanic people lived in East Hampton.
Mr. Rosalia founded the newspaper with his mother, Lucille, five years ago "to help the Hispanic and English communities get to know each other," he said. Published in Spanish and English, its circulation ranges from 3,100 to 4,000, he added.
In most public schools on the South Fork, the number of Hispanic students has more than doubled in five years, according to education officials. The Town of East Hampton, including Montauk, reports that it has 200 Hispanic students, or almost 13 percent of the enrollment in the district. Five years ago the district had 76, or 5 percent, according to an administrator, Joseph Frascino.
Mr. Frascino, who recently started a multicultural program in the district, said that most of the Hispanic students were in the high school and lived in Montauk.
"In 1986, there was not one English as a Second Language teacher in the district, the principal of the elementary school in East Hampton, Dennis Donatutti, said. "Now there are five."
In the Southampton district, the increase in Hispanic students is consistent with the rest of the South Fork, according to the district psychologist and supervisor of the E.S.L. program, Dr. Harmon Cohen. The number grew, from 30 in 1990 to 65, or 4 percent of the total enrollment in the district last year, and the number of E.S.L. teaching positions has increased, from one and a half to three, he said.
Many Hispanic singles migrate here, experts said, hoping to save enough money to move their families, a process that can take years.
But Juan was lucky. In two months, he said, his wife and two children joined him in Southampton. "I worked day and night to bring them here," he recalled.
However, they are "wetbacks," said Sister Cathi. Late one night they waded across the Rio Grande, escorted by an illegal guide called a coyote, she said. They have no legal documents, she added, and "they have no hope of getting them."
Sister Cathi said it was extremely difficult for Mexicans to obtain the documents unless they were part of the government's seasonal farm worker program or family reunification program or were sponsored by an employer.
In addition to the difficulty of obtaining documentation, the immigrants often face other obstacles.
At the time of the interview Juan had been out of work for two months because of an accident. While painting a house, he fell off a ladder and knocked a leg bone out of place, he said. Although his supervisor deducts 4 percent of his salary for accident insurance, Juan has been told that his particular fall is not covered, he said.
Because he has no documentation, he does not have a strong case, Sister Cathi said. And since they have no recourse, she added, immigrants are often taken advantage of. "I tried five or six lawyers," Juan said. "But they all said they couldn't help me, since I have no papers."
The family plans to live here indefinitely, because they have nowhere else to go. They share a house with two other families in Southampton, and Juan's wife cleans a few houses each week.
Although Hispanic immigrants are a frequent target of criticism, Sister Cathi said, they are the backbone of the local economy. "Commerce on the East End," she added, "depends on them."
The Hispanic workers are in jobs that Americans are not seeking, Mr. Rosalia added.
A landscaping manager in Southampton, Chris Bishop, agreed that Hispanic workers did not take jobs from other residents. In season, from March to November, Mr. Bishop said, he hires seasonal workers, including 10 who speak Spanish.
He said that all his foreign laborers had to have legal documents and that all were paid on the books. They start at $8 an hour and can work up to $10. Overall, he added, the foreigners are hard workers who often have two full-time jobs in the summer.
People are under the impression that the immigrants pay no taxes, Mr. Rosalia said, but most are paid on the books.
Last year Juan and his wife earned $14,000 before taxes, he said. Acccording to Sister Cathi, even workers without legal documents pay taxes because they often present false Social Security numbers to obtain jobs.That means that taxes are deducted from the paychecks, but that the workers do not receive refunds.
"We pay taxes but get none of the benefits," Juan said.
Another immigrant, 31 years old, qualified for a green card, or residency visa, one year after moving to East Hampton in 1990. He left his wife and two children in Guatemala, he said, where "people were fighting and being killed."
In five years, he said, he has seen his family once, when he was issued a visa.
"I've tried to bring my family here, but nobody has helped me, and a lawyer costs too much," he said in broken English. Although he would like to stay, the worker said, he will probably return to Guatemala next year because he misses his family.
While on the South Fork the Guatemalan has found work eight months out of the year, he said, but right now he is unemployed until next month. "I tried to find a job doing anything, but there is no business," he said.
In the last year he has worked steadily for an irrigation company in East Hampton. After completing the paperwork, he said, he was hoping to receive unemployment benefits.
Learning the system and breaking the language barrier are the biggest problems, according to Anne Bernard, an outreach worker for the Town of East Hampton. Ms. Bernard is an advocate for Hispanic residents, whether they need her to fill out forms, drive them to doctors' offices or translate.
The Human Services Director of East Hampton, Edna Steck, said Hispanic people were frightened of most authority figures. For example, they are afraid to question the school system, because they fear that "their situation will be jeopardized," she said.
Ms. Steck emphasized the need to teach Hispanic parents the importance of being involved in their children's educations.
Sometimes a family asks Ms. Bernard to make telephone calls for them. They think that with their accent "they will not get good service," Ms. Bernard said.
In addition to the outreach program, which serves 60 families, East Hampton offers free E.S.L. classes for adults and an after-school tutoring club for schoolchildren.
Many students leave school for up to three months in the winter, when their families travel, and the program helps them catch up, the director, Audrey Gaines, said. About 50 students attend the program, half of whom are Hispanic.
"We could have a lot more," she added. "But the program is full, and I have had to turn many away."
In the schools, teachers say, most Hispanic students attend year-round, and few parents continue to take their children out of school.
Some students have motivation problems, said Sandy Vasquez, an E.S.L. teacher in East Hampton. Because many have been separated from their parents for up to four years, "they have a lot going on emotionally" when they are reunited.
In Southampton, Joaquin Mendez, a high school guidance counselor who is from the Dominican Republic, also said "reunification" posed problems. About half the Hispanic people, Mr. Mendez said, are "people in transition," people who live with three or four other men or women who are single or have left spouses and children behind.
At food pantries, workers say, the number of immigrants has increased substantially over several years. The coordinator of the Southampton food pantry at the Sacred Heart church, Mary Ann Tupper, said many Hispanic people were part of the "invisible poor" who worked in the seasonal tourist trade and went to the pantry in the winter, when they were out of work. "You don't see them unless you deal with them," she said.
The director of a pantry in East Hampton, Bob Fariel, said, "A lot of Hispanics are bunching up and living in motels here and in Montauk." Because the pantry, in Montauk, is open only once a month, many Hispanic people apparently go to East Hampton weekly for food.
In Hampton Bays a 19-year-old from Puebla, Mexico, moved to Long Island two years ago and found work as a landscaper. But in the winter he does not have a way to earn a living, he said, and he lives in a small apartment with four other young men, also out of work.
In another residence in Hampton Bays, a 22-year-old woman from Chiapas in southern Mexico, lives with three other Mexican women, including her mother. She works preparing salads in a restaurant, but her mother, a housekeeper, is out of work.
Sister Cathi, who translated that interview, too, said the women lived "abstinently" to send money to their families.
On the positive side, 20 percent of the Hispanic immigrants are part of "intact families" that are moving ahead, Mr. Mendez said. They have lived in the region for seven or eight years and their lives have become more stable because they found year-round work. "Their children are able to compete in school," Mr. Mendez added.
In fact, the salutatorian at Southampton High School in 1993 was a girl from Ecuador, Carolina Avendano. When she moved to Southampton, she entered high school not speaking English. Today she is a sophomore at the Massachusetts Institue of Technology in Cambridge.
Another more subtle success story involves a Costa Rican family in East Hampton. A housekeeper; her husband, a carpenter and their three children migrated from the capital, San Jose, six years ago.
Although the woman loves Costa Rica and would like to return someday, she said, "there are no good jobs" and the cost of living is high.
Looking back, she said times were tough, but "things are better now." The couple are saving to buy the three-bedroom rental home where they live.
In addition to public programs, private services are also focusing on the immigrants. One prime example is Hampton Community Health Care in Water Mill, run by a pediatric nurse practitioner, Harriet L. Hellman.
While working for a pediatrician in East Hampton, Ms. Hellman recounted, she noticed that no one was serving the medical needs of the growing immigrant community. She said she was the only professional who spoke Spanish in the office.
In May she opened a large clinic on Montauk Highway with bilingual personnel. It has seen 500 children and adolescents. "Ninety percent are Spanish speaking," she said.
Ms. Hellman offers a sliding-fee scale based on income. Some patients pay right away in cash, andothers "bring me $5 each week."
Ms. Hellman stressed that Hispanic culture was centered on a strong family unit. "These people love their kids and have good values," she said. In a recent snowstorm, she said, a young man with asthma went to her office to pay for a $20 influenza vaccination.
The area has a dire need for additional Spanish-speaking health practitioners, Ms. Hellman said, and Southampton has no bilingual social workers or public health nurses.
"There are huge pockets of poverty," she said. "The white middle class either doesn't know about it or chooses not to know. Large numbers can't read and write or use the system. The church groups have been most successful at helping them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lucille Rosalia, left, publisher of El Mensajero, with her son, Anthony, editor. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); Sister Cathi Kugler, right, conducts a Bible study lesson with immigrants. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Sister Cathi Kugler, left, shares a joke with Gloria Delgado after church service. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMPTONS, THE (NY); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LABOR; MIGRANT LABOR IMMIGRATION (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); CENSUS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); TOURISM (53%); 

PERSON: SPIEGEL, MERYL CATHI KUGLER (73%); ROY FEDELEM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



652 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 16; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF ORDER;
The Conflict Between A.M. and P.M. People

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; David Bouchier of Wading River is an essayist and commentator heard regularly on public radio.

 BODY:
THE world is full of irresolvable conflicts, and I almost hesitate to recommend another one. But it's time that more attention was paid to the deep divide in our society between Morning People and Night People.
Fully 56 percent of the American population claim to be Morning People. My wife is a typical example of this unfortunate syndrome. She leaps happily out of bed in the gray, freezing hour before dawn, sings happy songs in the shower and makes optimistic plans for the day, even though it's still virtually the middle of the night. 
 The remaining 44 percent of us are Night People, who prefer to get up at a responsible hour, between 9 and 10, and crawl around with eyes half closed contemplating suicide and predicting the end of the world until it's time for our afternoon nap. Then we take a warm bath and begin to make plans for the evening.
You can see the contrast on any L.I.R.R. morning rush hour train. Half the passengers are reading and chatting and gazing brightly out at the icy landscape. The other half are slumped in their seats like extras from "The Night of the Living Dead," eyes glazed or completely closed, clutching paper cups of cold black coffee. There is no point in these Night People going to work at all until after lunch. Economists complain about our falling rate of productivity, but a little creative re-scheduling of Morning and Night People would bring the economy roaring back to life, save millions of marriages and send the sleeping pill industry into terminal decline.
And if we want to talk about Equal Opportunity, think how this affects the chances of students. I once taught an 8 A.M. class at Suffolk Community College, and I might as well have given out the grades on the first day. It was clear that the Morning People would get all the A's, and the Night People would be lucky to escape with D's or F's. Zombies don't make good students or, for that matter, good teachers.
The morning/night divide is another basic conflict between civilization and barbarism. Clearly, the Morning People are on the side of barbarism, because they are closer to nature. Most animals get started at dawn and go to sleep at dusk. Humans have civilization, in the form of electric light and central heating and David Letterman, so there is no need for us to live like animals.
So it is all the more puzzling that an actual majority of Americans claim to be Morning People. It doesn't seem like a rational choice. And if they are telling the truth, why didn't the natural process of evolutionary selection kill them off years ago: murdered by their loved ones, debilitated by cold showers and sleep deprivation and brain dead from a lifetime overdose of "Good Morning America"?
Perhaps the key is in the word claim. They claim to be Morning People because their job forces them to be, or because some ancient memory of the Protestant work ethic tells them that it's virtuous to be active in the mornings. Ben Franklin, a typically annoying morning person, said "Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise." It hasn't worked for any of the men I know. It's just made them grumpy and tired and liable to fall asleep in their beer. Perhaps it works for women.
It is a law of nature that Morning People will always marry Night People, and vice versa. This explains the residual figure of 12 percent who never marry, because they can't find the wrong partner, and also why the average duration of marriage is now down to six years. People hide their chronological orientation before they get married. It is one of those many awful truths that emerges only after the wedding papers have been signed, like a taste for porridge or a partiality for cats. After all, if you tell these secrets before the marriage is nailed down, you will certainly stay single all your life.
It is painful to watch Morning People, in the throes of love, propping their eyelids open at all-night parties and pretending to enjoy it. Or Night People putting on a pathetic show of cheerfulness at 7 A.M., when the object of their desire is there to see it. Perhaps the only reason we have marriage is so that we can give up these pretences, and be ourselves, for six years or so.
As in all such deep human conflicts, both sides feel oppressed. And I see here the opportunity to identify two more huge groups of victims, just when we are getting bored with all the old ones. When you have victims, you must have support programs to put things right. For Morning People, perhaps night clubs in the daytime, midnight movies at noon, candlighted dinners at breakfast time, and New Year celebrations at midnight in Scotland, which is 7 P.M. Long Island time.
And for Night People, just to be fair, no more puritanical abuse, no more false moral superiority. And above all no more alarm clocks, especially not those that have "humane wake-up systems" (a contradiction if ever I hear one) and those that play jolly little tunes, like "It's a bright, bright sunshiny day" and "Oh What a beautiful morning."
Because it never is.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (63%); SUICIDE (54%); 

PERSON: BOUCHIER, DAVID DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



653 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Shifting Sands at the Advertising Club

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
WHEN the going gets tough, the tough hang out together. Or, why, despite the economy, two professional organizations are certain of attracting new members.
"The Advertising Club of Westchester has consistently maintained membership of about 140," said Andrea Graw Weinbaum who was formerly the salaried manager of the 400-member Advertising Club of New York and now serves as the volunteer manager of the Westchester club. "Although some of our members have fallen on hard times and are no longer in business, others have taken their place, but we would certainly welcome more new members." 
 The Westchester/Fairfield chapter of the Public Relations Society of America now has 80 members, but Judith S. Lederman, the group's new president, said: "We would like more. Corporate downsizing has taken its toll. We have noticed that our membership base has shifted from corporate to entrepreneur, which is a reflection of the times. We used to have a majority of corporate and not-for-profit members, with a few public relations consultants thrown into the mix. Now half our members are consultants, and corporate and not-for-profit members combined make up the other half of our membership."
Ms. Lederman added that many of the sole practitioners came from the ranks of Fortune 500 public relations positions. "They are seasoned professionals," she said. "But their experiences in P.R. departments of some of the largest corporations in the world have been vastly different from that of the entrepreneurial public relations practitioner. And so we've shifted the activities of our club along with the trend. We're having new entrepreneurial programs besides those that have always interested corporate P.R. professionals."
At the Advertising Club, the monthly luncheon meetings are one of the best attended activities, said Susi Dugaw, president of the club.
"Now when members are still feeling the effects of the economic slump, the opportunity to network and exchange ideas is extremely important," Ms. Dugaw said. "We have recently begun special-interest round-table discussions geared to different disciplines. Our advertising agency members, for example, have a round-table discussion group of their own. And our annual awards event not only gives our members a chance to showcase what they can do but it also brings them outside recognition. And as I know from my own happy experience of being a winner, that recognition leads to new business."
The club's newsletter with information on job and marketing opportunities has always been another valuable tool for members, Ms. Dugaw added.
It was through the club's newsletter that Rocco Cipriano and Milton Kapelus were brought together to their mutual advantage. "I spotted a notice in the Ad Club Newsletter, put out by Milton," Mr. Cipriano said. "Milton was a former Grey Advertising vice president who lost his job when his department was shut down. What he wanted in the ad was to start an advertising agency in Westchester as an equity partner." Mr. Cipriano, who was heading his own graphics company at the time, immediately contacted Mr. Kapelus.
"We discovered that we complemented one another," Mr. Cipriano said. "I have graphics and computer skills, and Milton has a creative copywriter side and an account executive marketing background."
Four years ago, Mr. Cipriano said that he and Mr. Kapelus bought out an existing advertising agency in Hartsdale from Michael Schoen and started their own agency, SKC (for Schoen, Kapelus and Cipriano), in Harrison.
"We certainly went into business at a tough time," Mr. Cipriano recalled. "Competition for every piece of business was fierce. We realized we had to come up with the out-of-the-ordinary campaigns if we were going to get noticed."
An unusual presentation, Mr. Cipriano said, was recently made to the new Castle Hotel in Tarrytown. "It involved hiring an actor who we outfitted as a knight. He went up to the hotel and delivered a proclamation written on a scroll describing our services to the manager. We were one of four agencies pitching the job, and it got us attention and a new client."
SKC now employs a staff of 10, Mr. Cipriano said, adding that in 1995 $2.1 million in sales was generated from clients ranging from the Westchester Convention and Visitors Bureau, of which Georgia Kalayjian is the president, to international companies.
"The Ad Club itself can be a good source of business," said Norman Liss, who joined the club in 1972 and remains active even though he retired years ago.
"I tell new members that the club is the best place to get to know your peers," Mr. Liss said. "And working on committees is the best way to network. I know first-hand because I have gotten business from other members and I have given business to other members."
The face of both organizations is changing with the times, said Elizabeth Bracken, who is a member of both. Ms. Bracken, executive vice president of Thompson & Bender, a public relations, advertising and graphics-design concern in Pleasantville, said: "Although the Ad Club has a broader group of members and the public relations group is solely limited to public relations practitioners, both have new members who need guidance and the opportunity to learn how their peers do business."
Joint programs, she added, are under consideration. "They provide an economy of scale that is appealing," she said. "Programs such as those dealing with 'now' subjects like doing advertising and P.R. on the Internet would be good."
Rob Seitz, who is an information management consultant, moved his business from his office in Manhattan to a semi-attached office at his home in New Rochelle five years ago. Mr. Seitz, who fits into both groups, has decided to join the Advertising Club.
"I've never been a big networker," he said. "I tend to get comfortable in my rut, but this winter, when things were slow, I decided I'd better stir myself up and become better known. Also, I had just finished tabulating the results of a campaign I did promoting my business, and I guess I wanted to talk to others in the industry about its success."
So Mr. Seitz attended his first meeting of the Advertising Club. "I was impressed with the quality of the event and the program," he said. "The people were a very friendly group. When you work almost alone, you need to exchange ideas with others in your field from time to time."
And in order to attract new members and infuse some spirit into the Public Relations Society, Ms. Lederman said, "We're planning a bold event for May 3. It will be a program featuring a panel made up of disgruntled clients who will discuss their bad experiences with P.R. firms and P.R. people. The bottom line is that we hope to educate ourselves by hearing about our mistakes."
Those who want to take advantage of the opportunity to flay public relations practictioners should call Ms. Lederman at 591-5502.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank DeMarco, media consultant, left, views sites with Rocky Cipriano and Georgia Kalayjian. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ADVERTISING CLUB OF WESTCHESTER; PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (83%); PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING CLUB OF WESTCHESTER; PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (83%); PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); DISMISSALS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY ROCCO CIPRIANO (93%); MILTON KAPELUS (86%); SUSI DUGAW (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



654 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Limiting Teen-Age Access to Cigarettes

BYLINE: By JACKIE FITZPATRICK 

 BODY:
EVAN KENNEDY started smoking when he was 12 years old. All his friends smoked; it seemed like the cool thing to do.
At first, he said, he liked the idea. But now, at the age of 15, the Milford boy is having second thoughts. Back when he started, he didn't need to smoke; he just lit up when he felt like it. "But then it got like you had to go out and have a cigarette or have one as soon as you got off the school bus and I got kind of addicted to it," he said. Although he still likes to smoke, he often wishes he had never started. 
 Mr. Kennedy is just the sort of young person the state's Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, is interested in. He wants to stop pre-teen smoking "before the first cigarette ever touches their lips."
Mr. Blumenthal is calling for legislation that would limit teen-agers' access to cigarettes -- banning cigarette vending machines except in bars, increasing penalties to $5,000 from $50 for stores found selling cigarettes to minors, in short, giving Connecticut the toughest laws in the nation regarding teen-agers and tobacco products.
Mr. Blumenthal cited worries about the spiraling use of tobacco among younger and younger people, particularly girls.
"The tobacco industry spends hundreds of millions of dollars to get their message across with images like the Marlboro Man and Joe Camel," Mr. Blumenthal said. "We need to aggressively educate our children not to take up smoking."
"The fight will be very difficult," he said, noting the strength of the tobacco industry. "But I'm encouraged by the positive response so far of many legislators."
Each year, about 1.3 million children and adolescents in the United States take up smoking. Even more startling, Mr. Blumenthal said, is that 22 percent of all smokers begin before they are 9 years old and 60 percent begin before the age of 14. The National Institute on Drug Abuse claims that nicotine "seizes a tighter control over its addicts than crack or alcohol."
Mr. Blumenthal's office has received mixed reaction from teen-agers, he said.
Many say the proposal is an infringement of their rights, but others express relief that this might lessen the considerable peer pressure to start smoking.
Outside a West Haven fast food restaurant last week, one teen-ager stood smoking with friends and called the proposals "ridiculous." He said he was not concerned about a health risk. Nor were his two friends.
But Mr. Kennedy feels otherwise. "I think it's good," he said of Mr. Blumenthal's plans. "Kids who smoke are getting younger and younger," he said. "But the thing is, you can get cigarettes anywhere if you really want them -- from your sisters and brothers or your parents or some older kids. There are ways."
The proposals have been hailed by many parents, by health educators and a coalition of health groups including the American Cancer Society, the American Lung Association and the American Heart Association as well as by pediatricians, pharmacists and health care directors.
David Woodmansee, vice president of marketing and communications for the American Cancer Society in Connecticut, said of the 17,500 cancer deaths predicted for 1996, 5,250 will be due to tobacco use.
"Ninety percent of anyone who smokes started as an under-age teen-ager," he said, adding that age plays a key role in addiction.
Mr. Blumenthal said that beyond the health risk to young people, the state has to consider the medical costs of cigarette smoking.
"The public health costs from smoking are staggering," Mr. Blumenthal said. "The hospital costs, insurance premiums put a burden on all of us."
The proposed legislation, which is expected to be heard in the General Assembly in the next few weeks, has its sometimes-vocal critics. Owners of cigarette vending companies have they have been unfairly singled out. "It's outrageous taking a group of businessmen and confiscating their businesses," said Stanley Seligson, chairman of S & S Companies, a vending machine operation. "Lots of people are going to lose their jobs."
Mr. Seligson said that most cigarette vending machines are already in areas off limits to minors -- in bars or diners and restaurants where they are in plain view of staff and can be monitored. He said the state could also propose a locking device, preventing sales until proof of age is presented. Mr. Seligson argued that it's just as easy for an 11-year-old to go into a gas station or a convenience store and pick up a pack of cigarettes, but they won't be banned there.
There are currently about 6,000 over-the-counter sale sites for tobacco products in Connecticut and 3,000 registered cigarette vending machines.
Jonathan Dentz, owner of the United Vending Company in Fairfield, said he's worked all his life to build his business, started by his father 40 years ago. "I'm a hard-working person who pays his taxes, why target me?" he said. "I'd have to lay people off, people with families to support."
Grace Nome, president of the Connecticut Food Association, which represents grocery chains, small independent grocers and convenience stores, said the grocery industry is trying hard not to sell tobacco products to minors. Mr. Blumenthal spoke at training seminars for store clerks around the state, she said, to encourage them to ask for identification from any young person buying cigarettes.
But she said she can't agree with the $5,000 penalty. "The fine is astronomical. It will put people out of business," she said. "In these economic times, the profit margins are so slim. We absolutely support the Attorney General's goal but we don't feel it's right to assume that grocers are trying to make a buck on a kid smoking. "
Ms. Nome questioned why there weren't penalties or warnings issued to the young buyers, arguing that they and their parents should bear some of the responsiblity for not smoking.
Mr. Blumenthal said the state doesn't have the police staffing to fine or ticket or jail young people who are caught smoking and that's not his intent. He said under-age smoking has to be stopped where it starts -- with the people who sell cigarettes to under-age youth.
As part of the legislative package, money would be made available to hire personnel to investigate complaints of stores selling to minors. They will report to the State Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. On the first offense, the store owner would pay the $5,000 fine, on the third offense, the state would revoke the store owner's license to sell tobacco products.
Mr. Blumenthal said he was concerned about the health threat to young people and because "nicotine is an addictive drug and it's also a gateway drug. Adolescents who take up that habit are more vulnerable to other habits," like drinking alcohol and taking other drugs.
The legislative package calls for an education campaign on the dangers of smoking aimed at children and conducted by the Regional Action Councils in the state that run anti-drug programs. The programs will be funded by an increase in the state's cigarette tax to 62 cents from 50 cents a pack. Karen Martin of Greenwich, president of the Western Middle School Parent Teachers Association, has six children ranging up to college age.
"I think anything that's going to try to make it harder for elementary and middle school-aged kids access to cigarettes is good," she said. "Kids in middle school smoke. Knock on wood, mine don't but there is always pressure out there among children to smoke, for acceptance, to look cool. Unfortunately, I think the parents who aren't in touch with their kids, who aren't involved with them, those seem to be the ones who have kids who are smoking, from what I can see."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VENDING MACHINES; FINES (PENALTIES); CHILDREN AND YOUTH TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); SMOKING (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); SMOKING BANS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); FAST FOOD (66%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RICHARD (ATTY GEN); FITZPATRICK, JACKIE RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



655 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 7; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: JERSEYANA;
People, Places, Politics: A Sampling of New Jersey History Projects

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
These are some recent projects supported by the New Jersey Historical Commission:
1. In 1989, Gov. Thomas H. Kean gave the commission a one-time appropriation of $109,000 to create 11 history books. One, "A History of the State House," was written by William Dwyer, a Trenton Times reporter. The others are a series of state history books for public high schools, written by New Jersey historians. They cover topics like architecture, politics and immigration. So far, five have been published. 
 2. In 1992, to commemorate the 500th anniversary of Columbus's first voyage to America, the commission organized a traveling slide show and presented it at schools, libraries and historical societies around the state. The cost to the commission was $900, plus staff time.
3. In 1992, the commission gave $3,500 to the Oberlin Smith Society of Cumberland County for an oral history project about Oberlin Smith, an inventor from Bridgeton who was a contemporary of Thomas Edison.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 4, 1989,
5. The commission has a continuing project with the New Jersey Network called "New Jersey Legacy," a series of documentaries about the state's history since the 17th century. Three films have been completed, and a fourth, about the state's role in the American Revolution, is in production. Each documentary costs about $35,000 to produce, and although the commission does not pay any of that cost, it helps obtain grants and provides two staff members as producers. The films are used by public school teachers.
6. The commission's Ethnic History Project produced a radio program, "Seabrook at War," about the immigrants who harvested crops and packed vegetables for Seabrook Farms in Cumberland County during World War II, including Japanese-Americans who had been held in internment camps. The total cost of the project was about $20,000, of which the commission paid $4,000.
7. The commission sponsors an annual conference on New Jersey history, which costs about $3,000. Recent conferences have focused on the state's architectural history and women's history. This year's conference, which would have been in December, was to be about New Jersey's role in the Civil War.
8. The commission was planning a biography of Paul Robeson to commemorate the 100th anniversary of his birth in 1898. The project, which would have cost about $4,000, has been suspended.
9. The commission was planning to produce a radio program about New Jersey's immigrants from India, looking at their cultural, economic and political impact since the 1960's. This project, which would cost about $20,000, is also delayed.
10. In 1995, the commission gave the State League of Women Voters a $7,600 grant for a lecture series on the women's suffrage movement in New Jersey. ABBY GOODNOUGH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Columbus, the subject of a traveling slide show.; Paul Robeson, whose biography project has been suspended.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL COMMISSION STATE HOUSE PRESS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESEARCH HISTORY (93%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); RELIGION (65%); WORLD WAR II (61%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



656 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 12; Page 55; Column 1; Television

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: SIGNOFF;
On 'Law and Order,' a Real Idealist

BYLINE: By PETER M. NICHOLS

 BODY:
At the end of a recent episode of "Law and Order" (NBC, Wednesdays at 10 P.M.), the battle-seasoned District Attorney Adam Schiff, played by Steven Hill, rallies his younger fellow prosecutors (Jill Hennessy and Sam Waterston) after a galling setback in court. Apparently guilty of killing a teacher, an anti-'Semitic teen-ager has received a reprieve in the form of an intractably hung jury that the prosecutors learn voted 11 to 1 to convict.
 
 The law is like that, Schiff reminds his colleagues. So it is and so it always will be. Let's get back to work.
 For Mr. Hill,, who is in his early 70's, the role of patriarch of the prosecution team mixes private beliefs with professional experience gained over a 50-year acting career onstage, in films and on television.
 Legal vagaries aside, Mr. Hill is a law-and-order man. "There's a certain positive statement in this show," he says. "So much is negative today. The positive must be stated to rescue us form pandemonium. To me it lies in that principle: law and order."
 Each week the show takes a crime, steeps it in a social issue, does the police work and sends the case to court, where it often goes through plea bargaining and other machinations. Personally, Mr. Hill says, he is no plea bargainer. "But our stories are about real life, and that's how life is today," he says. "We plea gargain all over the place."
 But whatever disarray that suggests, he adds, it is positively orderly compared with the life of an actor.
 "What we have here is a story of profound instability and impermanence," he says of his own career. "This is what you learn at the beginning in show business; then it gets planted in you forever."
 Judging from his credits, instability can't hurt. Between what he calls "tremendous periods of unemployment" lie the nuggets. Arriving in New York in 1945, Mr. Hill fed himself by acting on radio while he looked for work in theater. The break came when he landed a small part in "Mr. Roberts," starring Henry Fonda. "The diretor, Joshua Logan, thought I had some ability and he let me create one of the scenes," he says. "So I improvised dialogue and it went in the show. That was my first endorsement. It gave me tremendous encouragement to stay in the business."
 About that time he was selected by the director Elia Kazan to join the likes of Marlon Brando as a charter member of the Actors Studio. "That was another feeling of acknowlodgment," he says.
 Theater work, however, was contributing to what Mr. Hill calls "my career in starving." In the 1950's he turned to television, then in its golden age, and landed roles on Playhouse 90 and Goodyear Theater. In the first season of "Mission Impossible," he was Daniel Briggs, who later became Jim Phelps in a role played by Peter Graves ("Your mission, Jim, should you decide to accept it. . . ."). And he often appeared on "Ben Casey," "The Untouchables" and other series.
 On screen, Mr. Hill has had supporting roles in about a dozen films, from "For Whom the Bell Tolls," with Gary Cooper, to "Legal Eagles," with Robert Redford, and "Yentl," with Barbra Streisand.
 Then it was 1990. While he was filming "Billing Bathgate," in which he played the gangster financier Otto Berman, another opportunity presented itself. "Here comes this show called 'Law and Order,' " he says. "The whole concept of that title hit me."
 Schiff, he says, is the toughest role he has ever had because of all the legalese he has to absorb. "It's like acting in a second language," he says. And as in court, there are compromises. As a young actor, he sought roles that had a social purpose. "Later I learned that show business is about entertaining," he says. "So I've had to reconcile my idealistic feelings with reality."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Hill as District Attorney Adam Schiff on NBC's "Law and Order." (NBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); MISTRIAL (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); MEN (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); 

PERSON: ADAM B SCHIFF (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1996



657 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Abortion: the Rate Vs. the Debate

BYLINE: By ANNE CRONIN

 BODY:
REPUBLICAN voters leaving polling places in New Hampshire on Tuesday were asked which one of seven campaign issues mattered themost to them. Two-thirds of the voters responded with the economy, taxes or the deficit. But the top social issue was abortion, cited more frequently than education, trade or the environment. And of the 9 percent of New Hampshire Republicans who said that abortion was the issue that mattered the most, 60 percent voted for Patrick J. Buchanan.
 
 On Friday, Mr. Buchanan promised he would end abortions if elected President, guaranteeing that the subject will loom large in the campaign.
 But while a woman's right to an abortion is being debated, the rate and number of abortions are falling. The rate of abortions per 100 births has fallen an average 1.5 percent a year since 1983. Even the total number of abortions dropped a bit in the early 1990's, after holding steady for a decade.
 Some of the decline can be traced to the demographic dominance of the baby boomers. The population of women in their childbearing years grew rapidly through the mid 1980's, then leveled off.
 AIDS has helped lower the abortion rate, because more couples are using condoms.
 Escalating demonstrations by anti-abortion groups have also changed things - not attitudes on when abortion should be allowed (those have remained steady for decades), but in intimidating women who want abortions and the doctors who perform them. Now, in parts of the United States, it is not unusual to have to drive more than 100 miles to get an abortion.


GRAPHIC: Graphs: ...As the Population Ages... Number of women in each age group, in millions. Almost all births occur to women ages 15 through 44. (Source: Census Bureau); ...And Condom Use Has Increased, The percentage of all women using birth control whose partners use condoms. (Source: Alan Guttmacher Institute; 1990 was the most recent year available.); Attitudes on Abortion Are Largely Unchanged, Percentages of people who thought a legal abortion should be available under each circumstance. (Source: National Opinion Research Center surveys of adults nationwide. The questions were not asked ever year. Results were provided by the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research.); It Is Harder to Get an Abortion...Fewer Doctors Are Trained...Percentage of obstetric and gynecology residency programs in the United States that do not train doctors to perform a first-trimester abortion., ...And Fewer Hospitals Perform Abortions, Total number of abortion providers nationwide., Clinics Face More Threats, Percentage of all clinics and doctors' offices that performed 400 or more abortions in 1992 reporting each type of harassment.; ... And It Sometimes Requires a Long Trip, Percentage of each state's counties that had an abortion provider in 1992, and the percentages of women that had to drive 50 miles or more to get an abortion in each area. (Source on charts above: Alan Guttmacher Institute) (The New York Times); Photo: Anti-abortion protesters demonstrating in front of the Supreme Court in January 1995 (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (84%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (84%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ABORTION (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%); 

PERSON: PATRICK J BUCHANAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1996



658 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treasury Schedules Weekly Sales of Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, as well as two- and five-year notes and a 52-week bill being auctioned tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday, respectively.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.81 percent and the rate on the six-month issue was 4.77 percent. In when-issued trading the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.10 percent, the five-year note at 5.51 percent and the 52-week bill at 4.75 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Asset Securitization Corp., $730 million of conduit commercial mortgage-backed securities. Nomura Securities.
Doane Products Co., $150 million of senior notes due in 2006, B3/B+/--. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Inter-American Development Bank, $1 billion of global bonds due in 2006, AAA/AAA/--. Merrill Lynch and Swiss Bank Corp. Warburg.
JJ Acquisitions Corp./Jitney-Jungle Stores of America Inc., $200 million of senior notes due in 2006, B2/--/- -. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transportation, $167.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
Mecklenburg County, N.C., $225.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Anne Arundel County, Md., $88.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
California, $180 million of general obligations bonds. Competitive.
Nassau County, L.I., $119.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
City of Chicago, $50 million of general obligation equipment notes. Grigsby Brandford & Co.
City of Houston, $289.1 million of water- and sewer-system revenue refunding bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Massachusetts, $560 million of refunding general obligation bonds. Paine Webber.
Health and Education Facilities Authority of State of Missouri, $53 million of educational facilities revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Indiana Transportation Finance Authority, $120 million of airport facilities lease revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Massachusetts Institute Finance Agency, $65 million of revenue bonds for Holy Cross. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Northern California Power, $150 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
State Building Authority, Michigan, $114.3 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
University of North Carolina, $133 million of hospital revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (67%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); DOANE PET CARE CO (69%); DOANE PRODUCTS CO INC (69%); JITNEY-JUNGLE STORES OF AMERICA INC (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); SECURITIZATION (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (52%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



659 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Ford Move on Natural Gas

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 25

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company is adding vehicles powered by natural gas to the fleet of cars and trucks driven by its employees while on the job. Helen Petrauskas, Ford's vice president for environmental and safety engineering, said 10 percent of the vehicles ordered for the company fleet this year would run on natural gas. The goal is to have 30 percent of the 4,000-vehicle fleet using natural gas by 1998. The program involves Ford Tauruses, Crown Victorias, F-Series pickups and Econoline vans. They will be used first in southeastern Michigan and Southern California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; GAS (FUEL) ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENGINEERING (84%); PICKUP TRUCKS (84%); 

PERSON: HELEN PETRAUSKAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



660 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Hiring Seen Improving This Spring

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The pace of hiring is expected to improve slightly in the spring because of the start of the construction season, a new survey reports, but the job market will be sluggish compared with last year.
According to the quarterly survey released by Manpower Inc., the nation's leading temporary-help agency, 26 percent of employers in the United States intend to increase hiring, beginning in April. The telephone survey of 15,000 employers reported that 8 percent intended to decrease hiring; 63 percent reported no changes. 
 Nationwide, construction jobs are expecting the biggest growth, with 36 percent of employers intending to hire, Manpower said.
Manufacturing of durable goods -- long-lasting, high-cost items like cars and appliances -- is second, with 31 percent of employers responding favorably. In last place, with only 11 percent of employers intending to hire new workers, is the education and mining sectors.
"Our new figures indicate that a continuing uncertainty prevails among the nation's employers which inhibits job growth," Manpower's president, Mitchell S. Fromstein, said in a statement.
The survey by Manpower looked at 10 sectors of the economy in 481 cities, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MANPOWER INC MANPOWERGROUP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; FORECASTS EMPLOYMENT (93%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); MINES & MINING (52%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL S FROMSTEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



661 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tool Orders Up 23% in January

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: MCLEAN, Va., Feb. 25

 BODY:
Orders for American-made industrial tools surged during January from the previous month, the Association for Manufacturing Technology said, suggesting that capital investment by businesses continues to boom.
"We are encouraged that 1996 began on a robust note," Albert Moore, the association's president, said. 
 Total orders rose 23 percent, to $462.3 million, from those of December. Domestic customers increased their orders 22.4 percent during the month, while demand from abroad advanced 26.8 percent, the trade group said.
The report also showed that machine tool orders rose a revised 16.3 percent, to $375.9 million, in December, down from the 16.8 percent increase originally reported. January orders rose 22.6 percent over the corresponding period a year ago.
Economists follow orders and shipments of machine tools -- used to shape and assemble metals in products ranging from motorcycles to microwaves -- to gauge industrial output, consumer demand and business investment.
One sign of manufacturing weakness came earlier this month, when the Federal Reserve reported that industrial production fell nine-tenths of 1 percent during January, as the blizzard that hit the Northeast restrained output. More news on the pace of production is due this week, when the National Association of Purchasing Management issues its February index of manufacturing activity.
By category, January orders for metal-cutting tools like drills rose 12.2 percent from the previous month, to $312.3 million, while orders for metal-forming tools like stamp-press machines increased 53.7 percent, to $150 million, last month.
Machine tool shipments fell 31.4 percent in December, to $328.2 million. The backlog of orders, which tracks pent-up demand for tools, rose 6.4 percent, to $2.215 billion, during December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHIPMENTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



662 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: An Aerial Assault On the Wired Nation

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Jim Robbins is a cable television executive, but these days he sounds more like the cellular telephone billionaire Craig O. McCaw.
Mr. Robbins, the chief executive of Cox Communications, oversees the nation's fifth-largest cable operator. And while he remains enthusiastic about serving Cox's 3.2 million subscribers, he really comes to life in describing the company's foray into wireless telephone service. 
 Along with Sprint and two other big cable companies eager to break into the local phone business, Cox has invested $2.1 billion for licenses to offer a new cellular service, called personal communications services, or P.C.S. The partners -- the other two are Tele-Communications Inc. and Comcast -- are spending $2 billion more to build a national network capable of reaching 144 million people.
"Wireless is absolutely exploding," Mr. Robbins said.
Three weeks after President Clinton signed a bill uncorking competition in the telecommunications industry, the battle among local and long-distance phone companies and cable operators has taken an unexpected turn. Rather than waging a ground war for each other's wired network, many companies now seem intent on taking their battles to the skies -- trying to infiltrate the well-protected markets of their rivals by beaming telephone or television signals directly to customers.
"People ask when local competition is going to happen; that's the wrong question," said David J. Roddy, chief telecommunications economist at Deloitte & Touche, the big accounting and consulting firm. "The real question is: When is wireless competition going to happen? The answer is: now."
Mr. Roddy said Americans spent roughly $22 billion on wireless services in 1995, and he expects that to double by the turn of the century.
Long-distance carriers are particularly keen on catching the air wave, because they have national networks but lack direct connections to individual telephone and cable households. Late last month AT&T announced that it would invest $137.5 million in a satellite broadcasting service, DirecTV. A week later MCI paid $682 million for an orbital slot to offer its own high-powered satellite broadcasting service. And just last week, Sprint and its cable partners reorganized their alliance to focus on wireless, rather than wired services -- even changing the venture's name to Sprint Spectrum, an allusion to the radio-frequency spectrum used by wireless services.
Meanwhile a frenzied Federal Communications Commission auction continues in Washington for an additional round of P.C.S. licenses, with the total bids approaching $7 billion through last Friday.
To be sure, the popularity of wireless stems partly from the fact that the business has already grown so rapidly. The cellular industry that made Mr. McCaw so rich went from almost nothing in 1980 to a $20 billion business last year. And in the last few years, refinements in digital technology have also made wireless transmission suitable for a broader range of services, including computer-precise television transmissions and high-speed data transfer.
But the current craze also reflects a more sober business reality: Even after the telecommunications market is fully deregulated, the high cost of stringing wires or laying cables, and the expected resistance of the local cable and phone-wire monopolies to interlopers, will make it tough for long-distance carriers, local telephone companies, or cable operators to break into each other's traditional land-line markets.
"It is very hard to develop a wired strategy," said William T. Esrey, chairman and chief executive of the Sprint Corporation. "You can pursue a wireless strategy far more easily."
Consider Sprint's strategy for breaking into the $90 billion local phone market. As part of its original cable alliance, Sprint's partners were supposed to upgrade their coaxial cable television networks to begin carrying telephone traffic. Earlier this month, however, the partners dropped the wired component of the deal, in part because they feared that the schedule for renovating their networks -- 10 million homes by the end of 1996 -- was overly ambitious.
Some analysts said the decision stemmed from a more basic fear -- that the cable industry might never be able to compete economically for local phone customers. Already, cable companies have locked horns with regional Bell companies in negotiations over issues like how much they should pay for handing off calls to the Bell network.
"I think there could still be a tremendous revenue stream from telephony," said Brian L. Roberts, the president of Comcast. "But until all these issues shake out, it's prudent to keep your options open."
Just as the cable industry has qualms about taking on the Bell companies, the Baby Bells have lagged behind in their efforts to go after the cable industry. Several of the Bells announced plans a few years ago to upgrade their copper-wire networks to carry video services. But while Bell Atlantic is still rolling out a small video service over phone lines in Dover Township, N.J., most of the other efforts have quietly disappeared.
And though both AT&T and MCI have tried to get a direct link to households by broaching deals with cable operators like Tele-Communications or Time Warner, neither has succeeded.
By plunging into the satellite broadcasting business, however, AT&T and MCI will eventually be able to beam 150 channels of programming directly from satellites to pizza-pan-sized dishes on rooftops. So far, direct-broadcast services have only two million subscribers in this country. But with the muscle of AT&T and MCI, some analysts estimated that the industry would have 10 million customers by 2000.
If anything, the local telephone business is even harder to penetrate than cable. The Baby Bells own the wires that snake into most American households. And would-be rivals like long-distance carriers face an unappetizing choice. They can either negotiate to lease capacity on the local network, try to duplicate the network or find ways to bypass it.
"If you want to duplicate that kind of a network, you've got to dig up streets or put up ugly telephone poles," said Lee Cox, the president of Air Touch Cellular, the wireless company that was spun off from Pacific Telesis, a regional Bell company. "We're shooting an arrow straight at the target, and there are no front lawns or streets in the way."
So far cellular has been too expensive to become a viable competitor to local phone service. But personal communications services may have a better shot.
P.C.S. networks, using digital radio transmissions for voice and data communications via small hand-held devices, can serve many more customers simultaneously than current cellular networks. That fact, and the cut-throat competition as several wireless companies compete in many of the larger metropolitan markets, should result in prices much lower than cellular companies have typically offered.
In the first P.C.S. auction, AT&T, like Sprint, was a heavy bidder for licenses, spending $1.6 billion for a potential market of 107 million people. Add that to AT&T's cellular franchises through its 1994 acquisition of McCaw Cellular, and the company has considerable ammunition in its battle to bypass the Bells.
For their part, the Bells are also seizing on wireless as a weapon to compete for customers outside their regions. Air Touch Communications is part of a four-company alliance -- including Bell Atlantic, Nynex, and U S West -- that paid $1.1 billion for P.C.S. licenses.
And some Baby Bells are using wireless as a stalking horse for their foray into long-distance. SBC Communications, formerly Southwestern Bell, recently filed for permission to offer long-distance service in 16 states, including New York. SBC has chosen states where it already owns cellular franchises operating under the Cellular One name -- a brand that SBC plans to use for marketing long-distance services.
Still, not every telephone executive thinks the future is wireless. Richard C. Notebaert, the chief executive of Ameritech, has largely eschewed the costly wireless investments of his Bell brethren. Mr. Notebaert said he was spending the bulk of Ameritech's capital resources -- $2 billion a year -- to upgrade the company's existing wired network with fiber optics for data services, and in some cases to build coaxial cable television systems alongside the phone networks.
"You won't know for five years whether P.C.S. was a good investment or a bad investment," Mr. Notebaert said.
Given that the telephone industry is spending $30 billion on P.C.S. and other forms of wireless communications, the next five years promise to be nerve-racking ones indeed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCOM (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; WIRE AND CABLE LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (93%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); WIRELESS REGULATION (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); ACCOUNTING (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (58%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



663 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE PRIMARY SPRINT;
COMING PRIMARIES ARE UP FOR GRABS AFTER MIXED VOTE

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Feb. 25

 BODY:
As the Republican Presidential race enters its most consequential and chaotic phase, the combination of an unexpectedly competitive field and the most accelerated schedule of contests ever in American politics has thrown the competition in several pivotal states into a virtual free-for-all.
For months, Senator Bob Dole had been widely viewed as the candidate to beat in upcoming races, including the primary in Arizona on Tuesday, followed by states including South Carolina, Georgia, Colorado and Massachusetts. But the clouded verdict after the first four primaries and caucuses has upended the calculations of Mr. Dole and his rivals, leaving no clear front-runner in those states. 
 That is why the rapid-fire schedule of contests that are lined up like a string of firecrackers -- 15 states will select delegates to the Republican National Convention in the next nine days -- is crucial.
The focus is no longer on set-piece battles like Iowa and New Hampshire but on campaigns that are often taking place simultaneously. Because so many states sought more influence by moving up their primaries this year, 34 contests will be held by the end of March.
"It's going to be like guerrilla warfare, where people are picking and choosing targets," said William B. Lacy, Mr. Dole's deputy chairman.
Every candidate needs a first-place finish -- and soon -- before the competition moves in less than two weeks to delegate-rich states like New York, Florida and Texas, and then to the industrial Midwest.
Mr. Dole, hobbled by his narrow victory in the Iowa caucuses and his loss to Patrick J. Buchanan in the New Hampshire primary, is banking on his financial and organizational edge to recharge his candidacy -- and silence Republicans who think he is too weak to win the nomination.
Still basking in his upset victories in the New Hampshire primary and the Louisiana caucuses, Mr. Buchanan hopes put down efforts by leading Republicans who think he is out of step with the party, and to prove that his campaign is more than a fleeting sensation.
Even after his victory in the Delaware primary on Saturday -- in which most of his rivals did not campaign -- Steve Forbes hopes to prove that his candidacy can regain the steam it had before his fourth-place showings in Iowa and New Hampshire. And Lamar Alexander, who has presented himself a mainstream Republican alternative to Mr. Dole, wants to demonstrate that he can win a contest outright.
While polls and interviews with local Republican strategists suggest that Mr. Buchanan, the former commentator and columnist, is coming on strong in the next series of contests, it is perilous to assess the fortunes of these candidates.
The outcomes may depend less on conventional measures like money and organization and more on ever-shifting dynamics, like who did how well in the preceding state. There are other complications as well, from the differing rules in states over how convention delegates are selected to whether there are larger turnouts, as happened in New Hampshire.
"It's so confusing all of a sudden, like a three-dimensional Rubik's cube, and no one's got it figured out," said Benjamin L. Ginsberg, a former general counsel of the Republican National Committee. "We all used to filter our prognostications through the experience of what's gone on in the past. There really are different dynamics this time."
The race here on Tuesday is the biggest prize so far, with 39 delegates at stake. It is generally viewed as a two-way competition between Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Dole.
Mr. Forbes, the wealthy publisher, is still a factor since he has pumped about $2 millions from his personal fortune into television commercials in this state and, before his losses in Iowa and New Hampshire, was even with or leading Mr. Dole in the polls here. And Mr. Alexander is also making an effort in Arizona, and has a new commercial attacking Mr. Dole.
Other contests on Tuesday are in North Dakota and South Dakota, where Mr. Dole is widely favored.
The upcoming primary that is shaping up as most crucial, and the most fluid, is in South Carolina on Saturday Mr. Dole has been endorsed by the party hierarchy, and has set out to prove that the elected officials can pull him through even though such support did him little good in New Hampshire.
Mr. Buchanan is counting on vigorous backing from religious conservatives and for his outspoken championing of economic nationalism. But even with the shuttered textile mills in South Carolina, many workers there are prospering by working for foreign companies. And Mr. Alexander, a former Governor of Tennessee, wants to make the case that he is the most formidable candidate in his native South.
Yet the race in South Carolina could be decided as much by turnout. If it is low, Mr. Buchanan would likely benefit the most because his troops are the most motivated to go the polls.
Perhaps indulging in hyperbole, Henry McMaster, Republican state chairman in South Carolina, had a point in saying: "The momentum generated in our first-in-the-South primary will be the decisive factor for the rest of the South. When our results are tabulated, the field will narrow considerably and, although some battles will remain, we will likely know who the ultimate victor and the next President will be."
Whatever the outcome, many strategists agree that before the costly contests in Florida and Texas on March 12, Mr. Dole or Mr. Alexander will emerge at the prime candidate to take on Mr. Buchanan.
"There is no possible way that both of them will have advertising budgets for Texas and Florida -- it's inconceivable," said Charles Black, who was chief adviser to Senator Phil Gramm of Texas before he withdrew. "You're not going to have both of them equally on the radar screen. It just won't happen."
Here is what the major candidates are likely to face in trying to survive the crush of upcoming contests and capturing the 996 out of 1,990 delegates needed for the nomination:
 
Dole
As important as it is for Mr. Dole to start winning states, he should be just as concerned that Mr. Alexander not win any either. He needs to quickly establish a face-off between himself and Mr. Buchanan, and can do that most successfully by squeezing Mr. Alexander out of the race, and to a lesser extent Mr. Forbes and Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, who are also eating into his support.
Mr. Dole's campaign hopes that the accelerated succession of races will give his competitors little chance to raise money and match his state organizations.
 
Buchanan
With his low-budget organization, Mr. Buchanan can stay in as long as he wants. He is best off if several of his competitors stay in the field, dividing the anti-Buchanan vote. That would give him an opening to continue his hot streak.
Mr. Buchanan said he was making a special effort in Arizona, a "winner take all" state where the victor captures all the delegates, not divided proportionally as in many other states. But given the controversy surrounding his views, Mr. Buchanan's support is not as potentially broad as that of other candidates, so he is less likely than his rivals to win an overwhelming number of votes in any state.
 
Alexander
He is counting on Mr. Dole to perform so poorly that the party will rally around his candidacy as an alternative to stop Mr. Buchanan. But before that can happen, Mr. Alexander needs to prove he can break from the pack and win somewhere in his own right; he is the only one of the four leading contenders who has not won a state, and has not even come in second.
His less hard-edged message may be most popular in the New England states that vote on March 5, but he would be in a far better position if he can score a victory before then. But even if he wins somewhere soon, the truncated calendar gives Mr. Alexander little time to capitalize on the victories to raise money and organize ground workers in states.
"The compressed primary schedule is like the good news and the bad news," said Colleen A. Pero, the director of ballot and delegate programs for Mr. Alexander. "You get your momentum but everything has to be put in place so quickly. It could be construed as more difficult."
There are other possible outcomes, like the prospect that Mr. Dole will flounder, and Mr. Forbes will win here, thus re-establishing himself as a Washington outsider who is best position to capture the nomination. Or that Mr. Lugar will win big in New England and ride a late-surge to victory, with his opponents splitting up the vote.
Another possible result is that every victory by a candidate in one state will be canceled out by another candidate's win somewhere else, and no candidate will amass enough delegates to avoid a brokered convention in San Diego in August.
"The scenario that's emerging is the one that says, gee, maybe we'll be deadlocked in San Diego," said Mr. Ginsberg, the former Republican Committee official.
"That's the one that captures the imagination. Deep in our heart of hearts, all of us would love to live through a brokered convention."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: G.O.P. March Primary Schedule" shows dates and total delegates at stake in upcoming primaries. (Sources: State Republican Party officials, The Republican National Committee and The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; COLORADO; MASSACHUSETTS; GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PRIMARIES; FORECASTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



664 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON CONSIDERS PUNISHING CUBANS FOR PLANE ATTACK

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
The United States called an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council today as President Clinton weighed retaliating against Cuba for downing two civilian aircraft carrying anti-Castro Cuban-Americans.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said two Cuban MIG fighter jets failed to warn off the American pilots before blowing two Cessna aircraft out of the sky with missiles on Saturday. He said such a failure violated international law and "the norms of civilized behavior." 
 But United States intelligence officials said that at least one of the American aircraft -- the lead plane, which returned safely to Florida -- and perhaps all three had violated Cuban airspace. They also said the air traffic control tower in Havana had warned the pilots that they were in danger.
At a 90-minute meeting tonight, the United States asked the Security Council to condemn and investigate the downing, and the Council is to consider the request on Monday.
Beyond the United Nations, Mr. Clinton was also trying to decide if and how the United States would react on its own. With a tight United States economic embargo of Cuba already in place, Mr. Clinton has few ways to singlehandedly make life much harder for Cuba and its leader, Fidel Castro.
Mr. Clinton is trying nonetheless to fashion a political and diplomatic response that will satisfy Cuban-Americans opposed to Mr. Castro, the only Communist leader in the Western Hemisphere, without unduly punishing Cubans on the island who are seeking political changes.
The most powerful anti-Castro activist in Florida, Jorge Mas Canosa, said the deaths of four Americans offered Mr. Clinton "a golden opportunity" to win votes among Cuban-American conservatives by imposing the harshest possible sanctions, including severing all American diplomatic, economic and political ties to Cuba.
He said the President should halt telephone service, ban charter flights, stop wire transfers of millions of dollars from Cuban-Americans sending money to relatives, close the United States interests section in Havana and withdraw all American diplomats from the island.
But imposing those sanctions would be "shooting ourselves in the foot," said Wayne Smith, who was the chief United States diplomat in Cuba as head of the interests section in Havana from 1979 to 1982.
"That would be absolutely absurd," Mr. Smith said. "The Administration has been talking about the need to expand contacts, reach out to the Cuban people, let light into the island. Closing our interests section, cutting off communication -- that goes against what we want to do, and what all the dissidents that I know on the island and all the religious leaders want to do."
Mr. Smith said the American sanctions against Cuba were already so severe that there was little left to do except go to the United Nations.
The attack on Saturday came after months of a dangerous cat-and-mouse game played between the Cuban Air Force and the anti-Castro group, Brothers to the Rescue, made up largely of Cuban exiles. The group, based in Miami, had flown over Cuba at least twice before. Last month it dropped thousands of leaflets on Havana, urging Cubans to "Fight for your rights" and proclaiming "Your problem is mine."
Each time, the Cuban Government protested the action as a violation of international and American law. It put Washington on notice that it would take "all necessary measures" to halt the planes, including shooting them down.
Eugene Carroll, a retired admiral with the Center for Defense Information, a Washington-based group that advocates dialogue between the United States and Cuba, said a veiled warning was issued at a meeting he had this month with Gen. Ulisses Rosales del Toro, chief of staff of the Cuban military, and other Cuban officials.
"They said, 'What would happen if we shot down one of these planes?' " Mr. Carroll recalled. " 'We can, you know.' " He relayed the information to United States intelligence officials last week, on his return from Cuba.
On Saturday, three planes from the anti-Castro group left an airfield in Opa-Locka, Fla., shortly before 2 P.M. The group's founder, Jose Basulto, was flying the lead plane.
The pilots' stated mission was to look for Cuban refugees floating toward the United States. The flight plan they filed with the F.A.A. called for a five-hour trip to the edge of the 24th parallel, a line on the map north of the 12-mile perimeter of Cuba's legal airspace. F.A.A. officials said the flight plan was transmitted electronically to the air tower in Havana.
Under international law, territorial airspace and waters end 12 miles from land. But nations can declare "air defense identification zones" and warn aircraft of danger beyond them. Cuba has legally declared the 24th parallel, which ranges from 40 to 60 miles from its jagged northern coast, as an air defense zone.
At 2:57 P.M., according to a chronology prepared by United States intelligence officials, one of the planes contacted Havana's civilian air traffic controllers. The pilot said the planes would be headed south of the 24th parallel, in violation of their flight plan.
The Cuban controller warned the planes of the danger of crossing that line. The pilots said they were well aware of the risks, but were flying south over the line anyway, the intelligence officials said.
At 3:01 P.M., the planes crossed the 24th parallel. Eight minutes later, two Cuban fighter jets, a MIG-23 and a MIG-29, took off in pursuit. By 3:22 P.M., Mr. Basulto's plane was about 3.5 miles deep into Cuba's 12-mile limit, the officials said.
At 3:24 P.M., the MIG-29 pilot locked his radar on the second plane in the group and requested and received permission from his military commanders to shoot it down.
Eyewitnesses on a cruise ship below the confrontation said the Cessna suddenly exploded. United States officials said the plane was downed about 5.75 miles north of Cuba's 12-mile limit; Cuban officials said the shooting down took place over Cuba's territorial waters.
At 3:31 P.M., the MIG-29 pilot requested and received permission to destroy the third Cessna, and did. Again, United States officials said it went down in international waters; the Cubans disagree. Mr. Basulto, meanwhile, was returning to Florida.
At a news conference today at the airport in Opa-Locka, a Miami suburb, Mr. Basulto said the Cuban Government had "used their Air Force as hit men" and that "there is no excuse whatsoever to attack light planes that are unarmed."
Mr. Basulto said his position at the time of the attack was 23 degrees, 25 minutes north, which would have placed him outside the 12-mile limit. He played a flight tape recording that he said proved it. "We were in international waters," he said. "So were they. This happened with the full knowledge and planning of the Castro Government."
At a White House news conference today, Mr. Christopher said permission to shoot down the Cessnas was granted at the highest military levels in Cuba.
Mr. Christopher and other United States officials, who would not allow their names to be used, said that the MIG-29 pilot made no effort to contact the pilots, to wiggle its wings in warning or to escort them from the area before firing. This failure, they said, violated international law.
No law permits a military plane to shoot down an unarmed civilian aircraft, the officials said. The United States acknowledged as much last week by agreeing to pay tens of millions of dollars in damages to the families of 248 Iranians killed when a United States warship, fearing attack, shot down an Iran Air airliner in July 1988.
In a statement issued in Havana today, the Cuban Foreign Ministry said the "pirate planes" were shot down in retaliation for "irresponsible and criminal attacks."
It said the planes were between five and eight miles off Baracoa, a western suburb of Havana. It also said the pilots had ignored a direct warning from the air traffic control tower in Havana.
On this last point, United States officials agreed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two members of the anti-Castro group Brothers to the Rescue, Oswaldo Pla, left, and Jorge Lares, middle, wept yesterday with Mr. Lares's wife, Jackie, in the group's hanger at the Opa Locka, Fla., airport. Four members of the group were killed when Cuban fighters shot down two planes on Saturday. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times) (pg. A7)
 
Map of Cuba highlighting the 24th parallel: Cuba declared an air defense zone extending to the 24th parallel. (pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CUBAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); CATS (74%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); WIRE TRANSFERS (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



665 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Better Tools Needed on China

 BODY:
China's brazen export to Pakistan of magnets used in nuclear bomb production is creating more problems for the Clinton Administration than it has for Beijing. That is because Washington now finds itself with no credible way to respond that does not also inflict serious harm on United States business interests.
The best answer for now is to give priority to nuclear security and impose the penalties specified by law. But the Administration must also work to avoid similar dilemmas in the future by equipping itself with sharper policy tools. One obvious approach is to persuade America's allies (and business competitors) to join in coordinated economic penalties against reckless nuclear suppliers. 
 The magnets sale violates the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, signed by Beijing. Under United States law, this violation automatically triggers a cutoff of taxpayer-backed loan guarantees for many of the biggest American business deals with China. The Administration can protect American business interests by waiving the penalties, but only at the cost of severely undermining its efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons.
The Administration, pressured by Congress to signal disapproval to China and pressured by business to avoid sanctions, is preparing to split the difference. It intends to impose, and then immediately waive, the statutory punishment and then apply less drastic economic penalties. Such a compromise would confirm Beijing's impression that Washington will never carry out its threats of damaging economic sanctions for fear of hurting American business. If that impression is correct, the United States urgently needs to find other policy levers that it is actually prepared to use.
Chinese challenges over nuclear technology and missile sales, copyright piracy and Taiwan cannot be ignored just because Washington has no available responses that do not also impose costs on Americans. Until less problematic forms of retaliation are developed, the United States must be prepared in cases as serious as this one to invoke the economic sanctions that are now on the books.
But the Administration is not wrong in thinking that penalties that affect only American business deals, leaving European and Japanese companies free to pick up the contracts United States companies might lose, are neither the smartest nor the most effective way to punish Beijing.
It would be far more effective if all major trading powers applied concerted economic penalties, from the withdrawal of government subsidies to tightened restrictions on high-technology imports. Some American allies might be reluctant to go along with a coordinated approach. But they can be reminded that any reduction in America's ability to influence Beijing on security issues damages them, too.
America has tried to discourage dangerous Chinese behavior in recent years by rationing high-level official visits and imposing limited economic sanctions. These measures have had little apparent effect. Futile as these calibrated policies sometimes seem, they are clearly preferable to flaunting the Seventh Fleet or making implicit military threats.
To restore its credibility, Washington must now try stronger forms of nonmilitary pressure. That means signing up American allies to apply coordinated penalties when international treaties are seriously breached. But until that can be achieved, Washington must be prepared to apply the full rigor of American law in cases like the magnets sale to Pakistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); COPYRIGHT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



666 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: How Other Cities Succeed: Five Ideas to Revitalize New York's Region: Greenbelt;
Necklace of Space Rings Golden Gate

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 24

 BODY:
New York has assimilated millions of people and dozens of dizzyingly diverse cultures from around the world over the years, but it has never made much effort to borrow or imitate how other places solve their problems. The experience of the city and the surrounding region was always considered singular -- the problems were bigger, the political dynamic was different. Or perhaps the region was just too proud. New York was No. 1, and who could have anything to teach it?
The Regional Plan Association, an organization based in Manhattan that issued a 25-year agenda this month for the 31-county three-state region, has violated that taboo. The group studied metropolitan areas all over the world searching for urban ingenuity and found inspiration in a greenbelt around San Francisco, a broad-based travel card in London, a regional government in Portland, Ore., business district development in Tokyo and work force training in Pittsburgh. The final report from the planning group, after five years of research, identified these lessons as important ones for this region. 
 In the late 1960's, a developer planned a new city in a bucolic valley in the Marin headlands just across the Golden Gate Bridge from here. But outraged citizens helped kill the planned high-rise dwellings and the land was incorporated into the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, part of an enormous greenbelt that circles the urban San Francisco Bay region.
This nine-county area sprawls over 4.5 million acres, 3.7 million of which are open space. About 570,000 acres, mostly agricultural land, is at risk for development over the next 30 years, but 900,000 acres are considered untouchable open space.
"It's one of the most amazing features anywhere -- it's extremely unusual," said Jim Sayer, executive director of the Greenbelt Alliance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to land conservation.
This greenbelt is a mix of public and private land running from Point Reyes in the north to near San Jose in the south and sweeping around to the east side of the bay. The vital ingredients have been an active citizenry, ambitious long-term planning and money spent to buy important tracts.
One of the most scenic pieces is the Presidio, the huge and hilly former Army base at a corner of San Francisco that is now run by the National Park Service.
Mr. Sayer said that the best guarantee of open space is local public opinion. In Marin County years ago, voters ousted a county board that had agreed to open up a vast coastal tract to builders.
"The critical concept is that Marin established boundaries," Mr. Sayer said. "They said we're going to draw a firm line and they sent a clear signal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; LONDON (ENG); PORTLAND (ORE); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); TOKYO (JAPAN); PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; TRANSIT SYSTEMS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (88%); TRENDS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LABOR FORCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARMED FORCES (50%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; POLLACK, ANDREW JIM SAYER (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



667 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The New Socialism

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A specter is haunting free enter prisethe specter of the New Socialism.
The old Socialism failed. The Marxist notion that state ownership could triumph over capitalism led to the disintegration of the Soviet Union. In its other form -- the democratic welfare state -- the old Socialism is being abandoned. 
 Privatization is in; from Sweden and Britain to Israel and throughout Asia, tight state control of business is unraveling. In the U.S., even the majority of Democrats read the public mood against tax-and-spend and turned away from the stultifying excesses of income redistribution. For more than a decade, the pendulum has been swinging toward free enterprise and its handmaiden, free trade.
What were the world's leftists to do? How to reassert central control in the face of public revulsion of corrupt or intrusive state bureaucracy?
After years of thrashing about, they have come up with an answer: the New Socialism.
Unable to command the economy directly, leftists propose to coerce corporations to act as government's surrogates. Under the banner of "social responsibility," the idea is to place the costs of education, health care, training, day care and environmental purity -- costs that voters are unwilling to assume -- on companies that now measure success in terms of profits and dividends.
This goes beyond "industrial policy," that liberal scheme to let Washington decide which industries to subsidize and which to let fail. That cherry-picking didn't fly.
Enter the New Socialist Person. He or she is called the "stakeholder." Remember that word; it has replaced "proletariat" in the lexicon of the left.
The leader of Britain's resurgent Labor Party, Tony Blair, advocates a "stakeholder society." The leader of House Democrats, Richard Gephardt, told the annual gathering of A.F.L.-C.I.O. executives in Bal Harbour, Fla., "We've got to encourage, cajole and persuade our corporations . . . to recognize the role of their stakeholders as well as their shareholders."
At Bal Harbour, Clinton Labor Secretary Robert Reich went further, urging that Washington reward companies who practice "good corporate citizenship" and punish, by taxation or regulation, those driven only to make profits (by delivering quality products at a low price).
Who are the stakeholders? Workers, often seeking protection from competition; middle managers, even the unnecessary; the local community, including extreme environmentalists. In the New Socialism, share-owners come last -- including all those investing through pension funds and mutual funds -- despite the fact that these investors provide the capital to support profitable business and generate jobs.
The fifth stakeholder, usually unmentioned in the New Socialism's attack on "corporate greed" and demonization of the downsizers, is the consumer. His stake is his cost of living, which would shoot up if Reich punishments and Buchanan tariffs were slapped on the goods the middle-class family buys at Wal-Mart or Sears. The protected worker is also the cheated consumer.
Capitalism's defenders know that only stupidly shortsighted executives overlook the need for a loyal, motivated work force; we also know that good community relations help attract the best managers and innovators to a company. And easing the shock of necessary belt-tightening on workers who are not producing is "good P.R.," which makes business sense -- provided it does not squander assets on ego-satisfying do-gooding or becoming the new delivery system for politicians' largesse.
What are the primary "social" responsibilities of a corporation? To serve its owners by returning a profit and its community by paying taxes; to earn the allegiance of customers by delivering value, and to provide a secure future for employees who help it succeed in the marketplace. A new responsibility is to resist the wave of resentment stirred by politicians whose geese cannot lay those golden eggs.
The old business-bashing populism of Buchanan and some unions has linked up with the new business-using socialism of Clinton's advisers. If this pernicious bedfellowship is not rejected now, at a time of low unemployment, who will stand up for competition, productivity and free trade when the recession bites?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (76%); COST OF LIVING (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM TONY BLAIR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



668 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
Fierce Winds Cause Deaths
Fierce winds that whipped to more than 60 miles an hour caused at least three deaths in the metropolitan region and contributed to the collapse of at least two buildings in Brooklyn. In Midwood, Brooklyn, a sharp gust ripped a tree from its roots and sent it flying across the street, where it crushed a 40-year-old construction worker, the police said. In Farmington, Conn., a man and his 6-year-old son were killed when the wind splintered a pine tree and sent it crashing onto their car, critically injuring the boy's mother, brother and sister. The man, Anthony Bouckums, 44, and his son, Christopher, were killed instantly when the tree crushed the car, the police said. [Page B1.] 
 Focusing a Light on Abuse
The abusive death of 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo focused attention on the city's faltering child welfare agency. And now the murder of Galina Komar, who was beaten, stalked and ultimately murdered two weeks ago by a convicted felon, has opened a window on a system that treats black eyes -- especially black eyes of domestic violence victims -- as if they were stubbed toes. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]
Parents Fight Hospital on Baby
In a dispute that legal and medical experts say is both highly unusual and indicative of gray areas in New York State law, administrators at a Queens hospital have said they will go to court for permission to remove a 5-month-old girl from a ventilator against her parents' wishes. [B3.]
Bitter Feuds Split Local G.O.P.
A longstanding rivalry for the leadership of the Republican Party in Queens has produced a series of showdowns in court, more than a few shattered alliances and a large dose of bitterness. As the party has made political inroads around the city in the last several years, the promise of power may have spurred the internecine warfare. The Queens Republicans are not alone. In Brooklyn, Republicans are devoting far more energy to fighting each other than to opposing Democrats. [B3.]
In Giving, Better Late . . .
Countless well-meaning people have a tendency to procrastinate. In the last several weeks, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has heard from several of them. Their letters suggest that many people have already decided to give to the fund, but that it may take weeks, months or even years to turn that thought into action. [B2.]
Looking for a Broadway Home
The rapid rise of the rock musical "Rent" Off Broadway is the story of the New York theater season, a surprise triumph in an industry short on sensations and starved for a fresh, home-grown musical hit. "Rent" seems to have rekindled faith in the American musical when many in the theater, particularly younger people, believed it had reached an artistic dead end. Broadway's two biggest landlords, the Shuberts and Nederlanders, are vying to win the musical. The Arts. [C9.]
 
 REGION
Americans Die in Israel Blasts
Two Americans were among the 25 people killed in Israel when militant Muslim suicide bombers detonated pipe bombs in Jerusalem and Ashkelon. The bombs also wounded 77 people, some critically. [A1.]
The Americans killed in the blasts were identified as a man from West Hartford, Conn., and a woman from Teaneck, N.J. [A6.]
Towns Compete for New Jails
Governor Pataki's proposal to build three new maximum-security prisons somewhere in the state at a cost of $476 million has spurred an all-out contest among many communities, with elected officials, business leaders and residents lining up to urge the Pataki administration to bestow the coveted prize on their hometown. In economically depressed towns of rural New York, a new prison is as welcome as a new factory, department store or office building. But critics say many Republican legislators support the plan because they want to pump jobs into their districts. [B1.]
Illness Surfaces in New Jersey
A rare paralytic neurological disorder -- Guillain-Barre syndrome -- has since December popped up suddenly and inexplicably in the suburbs of western Bergen County. State and local health officials stressed that the general population in the county is not in any danger, noting that Guillain-Barre syndrome is neither infectious nor contagious. In the Bergen County cluster, six patients suffered respiratory illnesses, but health officials have so far been unable to identify any specific infection common to them and have found no shared medical or environmental circumstances. [B1.]
Ideas to Revitalize New York
The Regional Plan Association, an organization based in Manhattan that issued a 25-year agenda this month for the 31-county three-state region, has studied metropolitan areas all over the world searching for urban ingenuity. The group found inspiration in a greenbelt around San Francisco, a broad-based travel card in London, a regional government in Portland, Ore., business district development in Tokyo and work force training in Pittsburgh. [B4.]


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONTUSIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); WEATHER (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); PARENTING (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); STALKING (73%); FELONIES (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); THEATER (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%); POP & ROCK (60%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (53%); CHILD WELFARE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



669 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Give Them the Maximum;
Small Towns Clamor for the Boon a Big Prison Could Bring

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: JOHNSTOWN, N.Y.

 BODY:
Richard Smullen, Supervisor of this upstate mill town, got all worked up the other day when he heard that the state might build a maximum-security prison here to house murderers, rapists and the like.
But his was not the predictable not-in-my-backyard battle cry. Far from it. 
 "We've been trying to get a prison built here for years," Mr. Smullen explained. "It would bring a lot of jobs, and that would be pretty nice for the town."
Residents of New York City and its suburbs would shudder at the thought of having a prison built in their neighborhoods. But that feeling is not shared in many of the economically depressed towns of rural New York, where a new prison is as welcome as a new factory, department store or office building.
Not surprising, then, people in communities like Johnstown all but rejoiced when Gov. George E. Pataki recently proposed building three maximum-security prisons somewhere in the state at a cost of $476 million.
The announcement spurred an all-out contest among many communities, with elected officials, business leaders and residents lining up to urge the state to bestow the coveted prize on their hometown.
In Altamont, a small town in the Adirondacks, officials have 100 acres of land set aside to entice the state into building there and have asked their state senator to lobby the Pataki administration.
In Friendship, a town in southwestern New York about 25 miles from the Pennsylvania border, officials have been sending letters to legislators, correction officials and the Governor to request a prison.
And in Romulus, a community 60 miles west of Rochester, the Town Board scheduled a referendum to show state officials the support they would have if they chose to build there. The Town Supervisor, Raymond Zajack, said he plans to have his state senator deliver the ballot results to the Governor.
"There's much more competition today for a prison than there was a few years ago because of the economy," said Dean D. Lefebvre, Supervisor of Altamont. "But we've been after a prison a lot longer than anyone else and have the best site."
Of course, all this could be wishful thinking. At a time of tight budgets, it is by no means clear that the Legislature is even prepared to adopt Mr. Pataki's prison building plan.
The prison proposal is one of the few areas of increased spending in the Governor's proposed budget and is part of his broader plan to stiffen sentences for both adult and juvenile offenders. The new prisons each would have 1,500 beds and employ at least 500 people.
But critics question the need for any prison expansion, arguing that many Republican legislators support the plan not only because they want to get more criminals off the street but because they want to pump jobs into their districts.
Assemblyman Daniel L. Feldman, Democrat of Brooklyn and chairman of the Assembly Corrections Committee, said that a study he conducted showed that 85 percent of the state's prison population is housed in rural Republican districts.
"It's not only lock them up," he said, "it's lock them up in my district."
Mr. Feldman and others also contend that Mr. Pataki has misplaced his priorities by suggesting more spending on prisons while proposing cutting social programs that could help keep people out of jail in the first place.
But those complaints are not likely to elicit hand-wringing in places like Johnstown, a town of about 33,000 that is one of the Republican communities considered a good candidate for a new prison.
"People have been very anxious to get a facility there," said Senator Hugh T. Farley, a Republican who is trying to deliver a prison to his Johnstown constituents. "They're very anxious for the jobs."
The prison advocacy movement in Johnstown began taking root around 1990, when state officials were looking to construct a medium-security prison.
Back then, community leaders built enormous support for the idea by holding hearings, producing a radio documentary and distributing fliers that, among other things, assured residents that relatives of inmates would not move into town and then apply for welfare.
But the town did not get the prison after all, dashing the hopes of residents in an area that continues to have one of the highest unemployment rates in the state and that has seen some of its leather mills and tanneries close.
"We really worked hard for that," lamented Russell V. Pollard, a member of the Fulton County Board of Supervisors who organized the campaign to have the medium-security prison built there.
This time around, though, Johnstown is hoping things will be different.
Peter H. Lewis, owner of the Rainbow Restaurant on Main Street, sat at the bar the other night imagining all the new customers a prison would bring him, as if the deal were done.
"It'll be great," he said. "Best thing in the world."
But suddenly it dawned on him just how much competition Johnstown was up against.
"We really have to sell this community hard," Mr. Lewis said. "This is a great place for the prison workers to live. It's a good rural community that's very centrally located. And we have bus service, too."
A few blocks away, at a convenience store, Bill Zajicek paused from his work behind the counter and weighed the advantages and disadvantages of allowing a prison to be built in town.
"No question about it, it'll bring a lot of undesirables," he said, fretting about the prospect of relatives coming to visit inmates.
On the other hand, he reasoned, the prison employees would be wonderful neighbors to have.
"They're solid taxpayers," he said. "They will buy homes and shop at our stores. They're the kind of people we need around here. So it's probably worth putting up with the undesirables."
Of course, there are opponents. Recently, the County Board of Supervisors voted to inform the state that they were not interested in a maximum-security prison; some members figured it was too large.
But Anthony C. Buanno, the chairman of the board, dismissed the vote as a hasty act of people who really did not understand what was at stake.
"I don't think the supervisors had enough information to make an intelligent decision," he said.
So he is toying with the idea of taking his colleagues on a field trip to a town that already has a prison. "That way they can see what a prison is like with their own eyes," he said.
But he has yet to decide on a town. "We're still working that out," Mr. Buanno said. "Maybe we'll go to -- what's that place called again? -- Greenhaven. I think they'll learn a lot from that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A good place for a maximum-security prison? Russell V. Pollard, above, on the Fulton County Board of Supervisors, hopes this plot outside Johnstown is selected. (pg. B1); In downtown Johnstown, shop owners said they would welcome the economic boost a prison would bring. (David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Map of New York highlighting Johnstown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (69%); 

CITY: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (69%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; FINANCES PRISONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); REFERENDUMS (63%); JUVENILE CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (70%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



670 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Cozumel Journal;
Where Cruise Liners Intrude, Nafta Tests Waters

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: SAN MIGUEL DE COZUMEL, Mexico, Feb. 21

 BODY:
The reef is named Paradise, and it is an underwater heaven to a host of colorful sea creatures and the scuba divers who love to see them up close.
The coral outcropping, washed by a languid current in azure waters, is one of the most popular diving sites near the island of Cozumel, which lies off the Yucatan Peninsula. 
 Now Paradise Reef is testing the power of the North American Free Trade Agreement to promote environmental conservation. With the blessing of the Mexican Government, a private Mexican resort developer is sinking thousands of tons of concrete into the white sands and translucent waters near the reef to build an 1,800-foot pier for luxury cruise liners.
The move has met with fierce opposition from divers and others who say the project is "paving Paradise to put up a parking lot for cruise ships," in the words of Bob Sterner, a scuba diver from Hoboken, N.J., who edits a diving magazine called Immersed.
In January, Cozumel ecologists and divers filed a formal complaint with the environmental watchdog commission set up under the 1994 trade agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, charging that the pier and the enormous ships it will receive imperil the reef's survival. The complaint accuses Mexico of sidestepping its own laws requiring extensive environmental impact studies.
On Feb. 12, the Nafta Commission for Environmental Cooperation agreed to take up the Cozumel project, the first time since the agency was created that it has decided to investigate a case and issue a judgment.
The commission was set up during the Nafta negotiations to allay the fears of conservationists that freer economic relations with Mexico, with its comparatively lax environmental laws, would lower ecological standards throughout the continent. But the commission cannot impose sanctions; the most it can do is to chastise a country its deems is tolerating egregious environmental abuses.
By taking on the pier case, the commission is wading into conflicting interests as tangled as the mangroves that line Cozumel's shores. For the pier has opened a rift among the people of Cozumel over what they want their island to be: a retreat for low-budget, reef-loving divers or a port of call for high-paying cruise ship passengers.
Cozumel is a basically lazy-living island that has received a jolt of development from the overflow of its mega-resort neighbor, Cancun, 40 miles to the north on the mainland. For decades Cozumel's vibrant reefs have been magnets for divers. Then, 25 years ago, the Mexican Government built a dock for cruise ships on the island's west coast, unleashing an inundation of day-tripping tourists -- some 1.6 million a year, local officials say -- and a chaotic hotel-building boom.
In the mid-1980's, Mexico's Transportation Ministry decided, without consulting island residents, that it was time for a second cruise pier.
Although there are miles of beach without reefs north of the existing cruise ship dock, ministry officials decreed that the new dock should go about a quarter-mile south -- 400 yards from the head of Paradise Reef.
The ministry bid out the job, which went to a private Mexican company, Consorcio H, whose ambitious $230 million plan included not only the pier but a shopping mall, two hotels and a golf course as well.
Opposition on Cozumel, which has more than 70 shops for divers, came swiftly, in the form of petitions, demonstrations, state and federal lawsuits, and protests from international diving organizations and environmental groups.
"From the beginning we always said we are not against the pier or the investment," said Dora Uribe, a Cozumel lawyer who heads the anti-dock forces. "We are just against the pier where they are putting it."
In a March 1995 referendum, 60 percent of the island's voters called for the dock to be built elsewhere.
Jose Manuel (Pico) Castello, a Cozumel dive master, explained: "Over time the constant backwash from those big ships is going to raise sand that is going to choke the reef. Besides, you can't put those boats and our divers in the same place together. It's too dangerous."
But federal environment authorities disagreed. In 1990, Consorcio H presented its own environmental impact study showing that only about 3 percent of the reef would be damaged. The National Ecological Institute accepted the study's conclusions and gave the go-ahead, but tacked on 84 clauses to control the damage.
The complaint recently filed with the Nafta commission charges that the company impact study accepted by the Government was inadequate.
Consorcio H, anxious to complete work and begin recouping its investment -- so far, at $37 million -- dutifully complied with the Government conditions. In his Mexico City headquarters, the company's president, Joaquin Haces Calvo, displayed the six-inch-thick volume of documents he has filed with different bureaucracies.
"Instead of building a dock I should be writing an encyclopedia about what it's like to invest in Mexico," Mr. Haces said. "Very, very difficult."
Mr. Haces said environmental measures alone had cost the company $2 million so far. He hired 11 biologist-divers who transplanted 23,000 corals, sponges and other organisms from where the dock is going to an area beginning 100 meters south. Eight months later, 96 percent of the resettled coral is still alive, the company biologists say, which apparently would make it the first successful coral transplant on record.
Mexico has until March 8 to present its views to the Nafta commission. Because the commission does not have the authority to levy penalties, it is unlikely to stop the completion of the pier, which is already one-third built. But it can organize a team of experts from its three member countries to issue what could be the first disinterested, scientific opinion regarding the reef and its future.
Mexico's environmental authorities stand by their original approval and contend that they complied with the law.
"As far as we are concerned that case is closed," said Gabriel Quadri de la Torre, director of the National Ecology Institute.
Yet even the biologists who work for Consorcio H have expressed concern about the health of Paradise Reef after years of exposure to the sandy wake of the huge cruise ships. They are calling for new regulations requiring that tugboats be used to ease the ships up to the docks.
Meanwhile, the protests continue. Last Tuesday, members of the international environmental group Greenpeace swarmed over the pier and chained themselves to the top of a giant crane, halting work for the day. Consorcio H's director in Cozumel, Javier Herndez, greeted them with a big green sign saying "Welcome Greenpeace!" and gamely invited them into his offices for a debate.
"Why are you making us ground zero?" Mr. Herndez asked. "Frankly, it would have been a lot easier for us if the Government had just said 'no' at the start."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Environmentalists and scuba divers fear that the construction of a new pier to accommodate luxury cruise ships at Cozumel Island will seriously damage Paradise Reef, which teems with underwater life. (Stephen Frink/Waterhouse Stock)
 
Map of Cozumel, Mexico highlighting Paradise Reef. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSORCIO H (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN COMMISSION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL COOPERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN COMMISSION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL COOPERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUCATAN PENINSULA (MEX); MEXICO; COZUMEL (MEX); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; DIVERS AND DIVING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SCUBA DIVING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); WATER SPORTS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESORTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



671 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In Their Own Words

 BODY:

LAMAR ALEXANDER
Speaking at a news conference yesterday in Phoenix:
" Buchananism is wrong for our party and wrong for our country. It is not a part of Arizona's future. As I think about Buchananism, I think of this: I think of anger, I think of protests, I think of one-liners. I think of sound bites. I think it belongs on 'Crossfire.' But if Buchananism belongs on Crossfire, it doesn't belong in the White House. And Pat Buchanan as the President of the United States is not a serious idea. I think what we would need instead is Presidential leadership of the Republican revolution. And let me give you just one contrast that has to do with Phoenix and Arizona. This is an export hot spot. This is an economy with fast-growing jobs. If we put Buchananism in the White House, what we would have is that half the people in the fastest growing companies in Phoenix would lose their jobs. "
 
PATRICK J. BUCHANAN
Speaking at the Cross Roads of the West Gun Show in Phoenix:
" This is an innate right of every human being, and every man who heads a family -- he's got a right to protect his family. He's got a right to own and keep and bear arms in that protection. And these aren't for shooting ducks! I grew up in Washington, D.C., when it was a very peaceful, wonderful town, before the invasion came. Before all those liberals came in and occupied it. And, you know, it was a peaceful town. And now the liberals there, they've got the meanest, toughest gun control laws in the country in Washington, D.C., but we've got about the most violent city in America. You go up to New Hampshire, they don't have those gun control laws, and they don't have those criminal problems either. "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FIREARMS (87%); GUN CONTROL (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (53%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; ALEXANDER, LAMAR LAMAR ALEXANDER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



672 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: In Immigration Bill Debate, Divisions and Odd Alliances

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Congress will begin final debate this week on the most restrictive immigration laws in 30 years and the first cuts in the number of foreigners entering the country legally since the 1920's.
As lawmakers return from a three-week recess, Republican leaders are counting on passage of a major immigration bill to enhance their thin legislative record this term. But the bills in the House and Senate face resistance from an unlikely alliance of high-technology companies, grass-roots immigrant groups, civil-liberties organizations and conservative research groups. 
 There are Republicans and Democrats on both sides of the issue, but Republicans are most deeply divided. Both parties support tightening the country's borders against the estimated 300,000 foreigners who enter the United States illegally or overstay their visas each year. But many Republicans also want to cut levels of legal immigration, now about 775,000 people a year, by 30 percent or more.
"The current legal immigration system is indefensible," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is the chief sponsor of the House bill. "We just can't admit everybody who wants to come."
However, free-market-oriented Republicans like Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader; former Education Secretary William J. Bennett, and former Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp support high levels of legal immigration as a wellspring of economic growth and innovation.
"Immigration today simply is not in the crisis stage that critics portray it to be," Mr. Armey has written to constituents who ask his views on immigration. "Most immigrants today are not sponges off the system; they are hard-working, and they carry with them that work ethic that made America great."
The demographics of immigration raise the political stakes dramatically in a Presidential election year. More than 70 percent of the nation's legal and illegal immigrants live in six large, voter-rich states -- California, Texas, Florida, New York, New Jersey and Illinois -- where many officials are worried that immigrants unduly burden local services.
In California, for example, immigrants make up 21 percent of all households but receive 40 percent of public assistance like Medicaid, food stamps and housing subsidies, said George J. Borjas, a professor of public policy at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.
But some Republican strategists fear the immigration bills could backfire by angering vast numbers of potential voters who are sponsoring nearly two million family members now on waiting lists in visa categories that would be eliminated.
Morever, many high-technology companies that need more skilled workers than the United States produces, including Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Texas Instruments, have expressed anger that the Senate bill would hinder their ability to hire skilled foreign workers.
"As a political issue, this could blow up in the Republicans' face," said Stephen Moore, a former aide to Mr. Armey who is director of fiscal policy at the Cato Institute, a conservative research organization that opposes restrictions on legal immigration.
The three leading candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination have given only very general positions on the politically charged issue. Patrick J. Buchanan favors a five-year moratorium on most legal immigration. Senator Bob Dole supports modest cuts in the number of foreigners entering the country legally. Lamar Alexander endorses current legal immigration levels but would create a new branch of the military to patrol the border.
The Clinton Administration has taken several high-profile steps in recent months to fight illegal immigration and to open jobs for American citizens: using the military and local law-enforcement agencies to bolster the Border Patrol and barring Federal contracts to companies that illegally hire undocumented workers.
But the White House is not reminding people of Mr. Clinton's endorsement last year of a Federal advisory panel's recommendations to cut legal immigration by one-third. That position puts Mr. Clinton at odds with many of his usual supporters, like Hispanic, Jewish and Asian-American groups.
The immigration debate in Congress heats up again this Thursday when the Senate Judiciary Committee considers its version of the bill. The House is scheduled to vote on a similar bill the week of March 18.
The political drama is set against the nation's largest influx of immigrants since the turn of the century. Nearly 10 million immigrants have taken up residence in the United States legally in the last 10 years, including three million illegal aliens who were given amnesty under the 1986 Immigration and Reform and Control Act.
But economic recession and a public perception that the United States has lost control of its borders have powered popular movements to clamp down on illegal immigration and, increasingly, on which family members may be brought into the country legally by citizens or permanent residents.
"Is it in the national interest to bring in people through chain migration with no skills, who do not learn English, who join their extended family but don't join our society?" asked Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the chief sponsor of the Senate bill.
Fueling much of this debate are two questions: Do immigrants displace Americans in the job market, and do immigrants receive more in public assistance than American citizens?
Both sides have marshaled statistics to support their positions. The information regarding jobs is incomplete. Some studies suggest that while immigrants may not take away jobs (in fact, in many cases they create new ones), they reduce the prospects for lower-skilled workers in weak local economies.
The welfare question is just as muddied. Each side uses definitions of public assistance and census information that supports its point.
The Urban Institute, a research organization, says that 95 percent of immigrants do not receive welfare.
But Professor Borjas of Harvard says that 21 percent of immigrant households receive some type of public assistance, compared with 14 percent of native households.
As lawmakers debate these arguments, the first challenge to the House and Senate bills is expected this week. Some lawmakers hope to separate the two issues of legal and illegal immigration; the bills now combine them.
"The current approach would dramatically hurt the American economy and cost us jobs," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who opposes restrictions on legal immigration and who is heading the effort to split the Senate bill into two parts.
Mr. Smith has fended off similar challenges in the House by accommodating concerns of business groups. Mr. Simpson suggested that he, too, was open to compromise.
"We're not out to stop Bill Gates from getting the best guy in Germany to do some kind of X chip," said Mr. Simpson, referring to Microsoft's chairman. "I'll take care of the business community."
High-technology companies are also upset at provisions in the Senate bill that would cut the number of visas issued to foreigners sponsored by businesses to 90,000 a year from 140,000, and would require companies to pay at least $10,000 for each new foreign hire.
"It strikes me as very odd that this bill is coming out of a Republican Congress," said Ira Rubinstein, a senior lawyer for Microsoft.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Simpson may have more trouble promoting a national verification system to check visa status. Critics including the National Rifle Association and the American Civil Liberties Union fear such a system would lead to a national identification card.
But the most emotional issue centers on efforts to cut family-sponsored immigration. The House and Senate bills would eliminate visa categories for brothers and sisters of citizens, and for adult children of citizens and permanent residents. Those visas would go to clear up a 1.1 million-member backlog of spouses and minor children of permanent residents.
This tradeoff between "extended" and "nuclear" family members has angered many citizens sponsoring their relatives.
Dr. Janaki Manian, a 51-year-old psychiatrist in Detroit, emigrated from India and in 1984 became a naturalized citizen. Two years later she sponsored a visa request for her older brother, Chandra Vasudevan, a tax-auditing expert who is waiting to emigrate from India. The proposed bills would eliminate Mr. Vasudevan's chances to immigrate.
"It's really disappointing they want to wipe it out completely," Dr. Manian said. "Having gone through all this paperwork and phone calls, I think it's fair to let people in who applied 10 or 15 years ago." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (50%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); FAMILY (70%); MEDICAID (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: LAMAR SMITH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



673 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Family Planning Cuts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
When I walk the streets of San Salvador and Guatemala in the early morning hours, I must step around the old cardboard boxes containing dead newborn babies, left there for the police to dispose of them. 
 Your Feb. 16 report on the cutback in funds for family planning and abortion guidance overseas horrified me. These countries have a high birthrate, a large part of the population is under the age of 15, and unemployment is astromically high. Wouldn't it be effective and humane to encourage family planning in these countries?
 
MARTINA H. LANGLEY
Yountville, Calif., Feb. 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (87%); ABORTION (87%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (87%); FAMILY PLANNING (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LANGLEY, MARTINA H

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



674 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: How Other Cities Succeed: Five Ideas to Revitalize New York's Region: Work Force;
Better Training In Pittsburgh

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Feb. 25

 BODY:
New York has assimilated millions of people and dozens of dizzyingly diverse cultures from around the world over the years, but it has never made much effort to borrow or imitate how other places solve their problems. The experience of the city and the surrounding region was always considered singular -- the problems were bigger, the political dynamic was different. Or perhaps the region was just too proud. New York was No. 1, and who could have anything to teach it?
The Regional Plan Association, an organization based in Manhattan that issued a 25-year agenda this month for the 31-county three-state region, has violated that taboo. The group studied metropolitan areas all over the world searching for urban ingenuity and found inspiration in a greenbelt around San Francisco, a broad-based travel card in London, a regional government in Portland, Ore., business district development in Tokyo and work force training in Pittsburgh. The final report from the planning group, after five years of research, identified these lessons as important ones for this region. 
 During the recessionary 1980's, available jobs shifted from steel mills to a combination of high-technology, biomedical and service industry jobs. Demand for workers emphasized high skills. The Allegheny Conference, a board made up of many of the region's top business executives and elected leaders, was concerned that schools were producing a surplus of graduates with minimal skills and set a goal of a better trained work force.
Using a $10 million grant from a Baltimore foundation, the Pittsburgh Public Schools started the New Futures Program to improve overall school performance. Now it includes an assortment of "school to job site" programs aimed at improving student job skills. It is also trying to coordinate job-training efforts in a county with 130 separate municipalities and 43 separate school districts.
There have been successes and failures. Working through a combination of Federal and foundation money, a program has been formed that certifies high-school students in 24 basic skills required by regional employers. It is a sort of buyer's warranty for businesses that they will not have to train new employees in skills they should have picked up in the schools.
Other efforts have met with less success and point to the problems of getting the many municipalities that constitute Allegheny County to pool their resources.
The programs face another problem as well. Money is running out. On June 30, the Anne E. Casey Foundation, the educational foundation based in Baltimore that started the project with its initial grant to the city's public schools, will cease its aid. Edgar Holtz, a director of the Allegheny Policy Council for Youth and Work Force Development, which is coordinating the programs, predicted that the council would be able to attract some financing from Pittsburgh-area foundations, but probably not enough to prevent cutbacks in programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (88%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



675 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: How Other Cities Succeed: Five Ideas to Revitalize New York's Region: Business Districts;
Suburban Tokyo Focuses Inward

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK
TOKYO, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
New York has assimilated millions of people and dozens of dizzyingly diverse cultures from around the world over the years, but it has never made much effort to borrow or imitate how other places solve their problems. The experience of the city and the surrounding region was always considered singular -- the problems were bigger, the political dynamic was different. Or perhaps the region was just too proud. New York was No. 1, and who could have anything to teach it?
The Regional Plan Association, an organization based in Manhattan that issued a 25-year agenda this month for the 31-county three-state region, has violated that taboo. The group studied metropolitan areas all over the world searching for urban ingenuity and found inspiration in a greenbelt around San Francisco, a broad-based travel card in London, a regional government in Portland, Ore., business district development in Tokyo and work force training in Pittsburgh. The final report from the planning group, after five years of research, identified these lessons as important ones for this region. 
 The Regional Plan Association calls for the restoration of central cities in the New York area as a way to slow suburban and rural sprawl. In Tokyo, planners say their transportation system helps them push new development in high-density centers.
In the Tokyo metropolitan region, home to more than 30 million people, commuting is mainly by trains and development is often clustered near railroad stations, explained Hidehiko Tanimura, a professor of urban planning at the University of Tsukuba. Highways are in a star pattern, all heading toward Tokyo.
In the New York area, by contrast, some railroad stations, as in Princeton, are surrounded by parking lots, not buildings, and highways in outlying areas are better developed. Therefore, Professor Tanimura said, "It's inevitable to have development far away from the center."
Tokyo does have its own version of urban sprawl. Partly because of a fear of earthquakes, there are relatively few high-rise buildings, even downtown, with a result that the region spreads over a wide area. Many people endure commuting up to two hours each way on trains that are so overcrowded that commuters have to be pushed into the cars by conductors.
There have been some attempts to create urban cores outside of central Tokyo. In the 1980's, the national Government created Tsukuba, a research and science city about 45 miles from Tokyo.
The latest and most audacious proposal is to move the capital out of Tokyo. While removing Government offices from the city center would help relieve overcrowding, the driving force behind this proposal is not so much urban planning as the desire to decentralize power by separating Japan's political capital from its business capital. Right now, Tokyo is so important that one fourth of Japan's population lives in the Tokyo metropolitan area.
Building a new capital would also provide a lot of jobs and help stimulate Japan's weak economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW YORK (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%); 

PERSON: HIDEHIKO TANIMURA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



676 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: How Other Cities Succeed: Five Ideas to Revitalize New York's Region: Transportation;
A Pass for Riders All Over London

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 25

 BODY:
New York has assimilated millions of people and dozens of dizzyingly diverse cultures from around the world over the years, but it has never made much effort to borrow or imitate how other places solve their problems. The experience of the city and the surrounding region was always considered singular -- the problems were bigger, the political dynamic was different. Or perhaps the region was just too proud. New York was No. 1, and who could have anything to teach it?
The Regional Plan Association, an organization based in Manhattan that issued a 25-year agenda this month for the 31-county three-state region, has violated that taboo. The group studied metropolitan areas all over the world searching for urban ingenuity and found inspiration in a greenbelt around San Francisco, a broad-based travel card in London, a regional government in Portland, Ore., business district development in Tokyo and work force training in Pittsburgh. The final report from the planning group, after five years of research, identified these lessons as important ones for this region. 
 Londoners have been worrying for a decade that the privatization of their public transportation systems might lead to the same sort of Balkanization that has snarled the New York region's roads, rails and runways for years. "I'm afraid we may be mess-ifying things here," said Caralampo Focas, head of research and consultancy at the London Research Centre.
Nonetheless, many aspects of the transportation network that whizzes Londoners about town and ferries travelers from Heathrow Airport into the city, the world's largest crossroad for international travel, would make the native New Yorker gasp.
Most noticeable, of course, is the scrubbed and polished environment in which most of this city's commuting takes place. Even though trash baskets have been removed from most subway stations because they are ideal places to hide bombs, one never steps in old gum or slips on a cast-aside newspaper. "If you provide high-quality, clean transport with strong security, it creates a comfortable atmosphere that makes it not so much a place where you'll take out your frustration over being unemployed," Mr. Focas said.
But London's transportation system is also unified by the "travel card," a single pass that gives the bearer access to the bus, the subway and the commuter rail lines. Travel cards can be bought for weekly, monthly or annual travel around the city, and they make passage between different systems seamless.
Also, public transportation is less expensive here than in the New York area, according to another study by Mr. Focas. Of 14 major metropolitan areas around the globe, the cost of an average week's commuter travel is highest in New York.
But while a diehard New Yorker would find the London transit system a model of efficiency, Londoners are paying the price for their own government's neglect of the system. A subway overhaul this year is causing station closings and other disruptions, while repairs to an overpass on one of the major routes to Heathrow threaten to tie up traffic for almost a decade.
"We're a sort of halfway house model, perhaps, for New York," Mr. Focas said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996



677 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Texas Balancing Act Is Succeeding

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
AS Southern California's experiment in balancing development with wildlife preservation approaches a critical juncture, another ambitious program may have turned the corner to success -- contrary to some recent expectations.
Seven years in the making, the Balcones Canyonlands Conservation Plan is an effort to carve out an assembly of nature preserves consisting of 70,000 to 75,000 acres just west of here, on the eastern edge of the Texas Hill Country -- a vast, picturesque landscape of juniper-clad hills and deep, wooded canyons whose biological health remains relatively good.
"It's hard to believe 650,000 people live out here," Jim Fries, the director of the Nature Conservancy's regional conservation program, said recently as he stood atop a cliff not far outside Austin and gazed across a seemingly trackless wilderness. But development is encroaching rapidly. The Balcones conservation plan was designed as part of a broader long-term strategy to reconcile economic growth with nature's requirements throughout the 19,000-square-mile Hill Country ecosystem. 
 The ecosystem is home to a handful of endangered species, chiefly the golden-cheeked warbler, and developers cannot destroy the species' habitat without a special Federal permit. In 1988, fearing chaos if each developer had to negotiate separately, Austin-area authorities invited the Nature Conservancy to help devise a countywide plan balancing building and biology. The Endangered Species Act allows such regional arrangements.
Thirty thousand of the acres to be preserved, situated where development pressure is greatest, are being assembled by the governments of Austin and Travis County and Nature Conservancy. The Federal Government is to acquire the remaining land, which lies just beyond the frontier of spreading development.
Some of the local share is land bought and donated to the preserve by developers, who are then guaranteed uncontested developments elsewhere. Some 11,000 acres have been bought by the City of Austin using the proceeds of a bond issue passed in 1992. Several thousand more acres have been assembled by the Nature Conservancy. In all, 21,000 of the 30,000 acres to be protected by local officials have already been acquired.
When a Travis County bond issue that would have completed the package failed in 1993, some observers gave the project up for dead. Among them were Charles C. Mann and Mark L. Plummer, the authors of "Noah's Choice," an influential 1995 book about the Endangered Species Act. But alternative financing mechanisms are now in place to permit acquisition of the last 9,000 acres.
That will enable the overall plan to take effect once the United States Fish and Wildlife Service approves it, which will probably be soon. "We are ready to sign off on it shortly," said John Duffy, an Interior Department official. "It's a great plan."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE NATURE CONSERVANCY (83%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE NATURE CONSERVANCY (83%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ANIMALS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LAND USE POLICIES; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BONDS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (69%); BOND ISSUES (66%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



678 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Push by I.M.F. Won't Serve Russia Well

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Here we go again as the International Monetary Fund pulls financial reins to put Russia on the path of privatization and trade liberalization to retard the growing support for the Communists that might block Russia's move toward a capitalist economy (front page, Feb. 23). 
 It is indeed shocking that the International Monetary Fund continues to push its analysis that countries adopting free-market policies are on the path toward economic recovery when there is enough proof against it.
Countries set on the path of trade liberalization have been confronted by increased unemployment and poverty, environmental degradation, drastic cutbacks in welfare programs and widening gaps between rich and poor.
Economic restructuring has led to destabilization of human resources and productive assets.
President Boris N. Yeltsin's hopes of using the first installment of $4 billion on increased social spending will not be fulfilled under this model.
The International Monetary Fund wants Russia to increase government revenues to pay for social programs. The agency's adjustment programs are based on a model that does not recognize the importance of investing in people and does not support development based on the ethical principles of justice and environmental principles of sustainability.
 
ANURADHA MITTAL
Policy Director, Institute
for Food and Development Policy
Oakland, Calif., Feb. 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ETHICS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); 

PERSON: MITTAL, ANURADHA

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



679 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Who Says Republicans Are Free Traders?

BYLINE: By Alfred E. Eckes; Alfred E. Eckes, professor of history at Ohio University, is a former chairman of the United States International Trade Commission.

DATELINE: ATHENS, Ohio

 BODY:
In the New Hampshire primary, Patrick Buchanan pressed the hot button that energized many 19th-century Presidential campaigns. Blasting one-sided trade deals that he says cost American workers jobs, he reinvigorated the economic nationalist tradition in the Republican Party.
Many Republicans think Mr. Buchanan's views are un-Republican. Since World War II, the party establishment has embraced free trade and economic internationalism as a grand panacea for global problems. However, from a historical perspective, Mr. Buchanan best exemplifies traditional Republican thinking on trade issues. 
 From Abraham Lincoln in 1860 to Alf Landon in 1936, every Republican Presidential candidate ran on a platform endorsing high protective tariffs -- averaging more than 40 percent ad valorem on dutiable goods.
A century ago, American politicians considered free trade an epithet and protectionism an accolade. Most Republican candidates proudly embraced economic nationalism and dismissed Democratic opponents as "English free-traders." Republicans thought free-traders led inexorably to low wages and economic ruin. Protectionism was associated with prosperity and independence.
Preaching class harmony, 19th-century Republican economic nationalists justified the protective tariff as essential for protecting domestic workers from imports made by cheap European labor. They considered the tariff a fee on foreign manufacturers for participating in the American market. The tariff, they said, did not raise consumer prices; it promoted vigorous domestic competition.
Lincoln, the first Republican President, advocated a moderate tariff. He adhered to the view that the "abandonment of the protective policy . . . must result in the increase of . . . idleness; and so in proportion must produce want and ruin among our people."
President William McKinley, who as a Congressman sponsored the McKinley Tariff, enjoyed castigating Democratic free-traders. In one famous speech, he warned in Buchanan-like language: "Free trade will bring widespread discontent. It will revolutionize values. It will take away more than one half of the earning capacity of brain and brawn."
Theodore Roosevelt expressed similar sympathies. In 1895, he wrote a friend: "Thank God I am not a free-trader. In this country, pernicious indulgence in the doctrine of free trade seems inevitably to produce fatty degeneration of the moral fibre."
From 1860 to 1932 the high-tariff card worked well for Republican candidates. Their position appealed to business, agriculture and working people. Republicans won 14 of 18 Presidential elections. Democrats, portrayed as dupes of English free-trade theorists, achieved few victories until the 1912 struggle between Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft divided the Republican Party and helped elect Woodrow Wilson, who then reduced the tariffs on dutiable goods from an average of 41 percent to 27 percent.
But the resulting concern about cheap imports, as well as opposition to the League of Nations, gave Republicans a rallying cry. The 1920 Republican convention and its candidate, Warren G. Harding, reaffirmed the party's commitment to the protective tariff.
His victory led to the passage of the 1922 Fordney-McCumber Act, which raised tariff rates on dutiable goods without depressing the quantity of imports or disrupting world trade. Indeed, new scholarly research demonstrates that higher protective rates of the Smooth-Hawley Tariff of 1930 had little impact on American trade and did not provoke widespread retaliation.
Republicans were solid protectionists until after World War II. Then, President Dwight Eisenhower, concerned about helping our Allies and former adversaries recover from the war, continued the Democrats' tariff-cutting program. He prevailed against many Congressional Republicans who remained true to the high- tariff principles of Lincoln, McKinley and Calvin Coolidge.
Interestingly, one of the last articulate Republican trade nationalists was Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut, President George Bush's father. The elder Bush said in 1966: "I never was a free-trader. I never felt that we could . . . do away with all protective devices, because we would have been flooded with imports which would have hurt our economy."
Do elements of traditional economic nationalism offer a road map for the 21st century? The record appears to show that it has served the Republican Party and the country well. In the generation after 1870, America protected its market and experienced economic growth more than double that of free-trade England. Exports soared and paradoxically consumer prices fell.
On trade, Mr. Buchanan's view are consistent with those of a long line of Republican leaders. He deserves credit for reopening this debate and for challenging conventional economic nostrums.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; ECKES, ALFRED E ALFRED MOSSMAN 'ALF' LANDON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



680 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Falling Stocks and Bonds Help To Keep Dollar From Rallying

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar was little changed yesterday in quiet trading, weighed down by declines in the stock and bond markets.
The declines raised fears that foreign investors would sell American assets and convert the dollar proceeds into other currencies. 
 "With U.S. financial markets down, it's difficult for the dollar to sustain any kind of rally," said Dan Ascani, an editor and publisher with Global Market Strategists Inc., an advisory firm in Gainesville, Ga. "Traders pretty much went home without committing themselves."
The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 65.39 points yesterday, to 5,565.10. Treasury prices also fell, driving the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, to 6.45 percent from 6.4 percent.
The dollar was also hurt by continued speculation about a possible rise in Japanese interest rates. Currency traders say that recent remarks by Japanese financial officials have suggested that such an increase is in the offing. Higher rates would bolster the yen.
In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar fell to 104.25 yen, from 104.77 on Friday. The dollar was trading at 1.4494 marks, up from 1.4470.
Japanese investors were assumed to be among the sellers yesterday, analysts said, because Japanese exporters typically move funds home toward the end of their fiscal year on March 31. The dollar had been rallying against the yen through late January but has fallen in recent sessions.
But the dollar was supported against the yen by concerns of further intervention by the Bank of Japan to support the dollar. Traders estimate that the central bank spent as much as $10 billion last week to weaken the yen and bolster the dollar.
In other currency trading, the dollar and other currencies rose against the British pound as traders squared positions ahead of an important vote last night for the ruling Conservative Government. The vote, which the Conservatives won by a single ballot, was on a report into the British Government's role in the sales of military equipment to Iraq. The Government's majority was pared to two seats late last week.
In New York, the British pound was quoted at $1.5397, down from $1.5410 on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (70%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (70%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CURRENCIES (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



681 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk; Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: New Era of Robust Elderly Belies Fears of Scientists

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
They called it the failure of success. As medical scientists got better and better at treating people with fatal diseases -- but not curing them -- the nation would be burdened with an accumulation of elderly people who were living longer and longer but were crippled with pain and riddled with disabilities.
It was a notion that called into question what medicine had wrought. But, to nearly everyone's surprise, the predicted pandemic of pain and disability has not materialized. Instead, new information, some not yet published, on studies involving people at all socioeconomic levels show that not only are Americans living longer, but they are developing less chronic disease and disability. And the reasons may have as much to do with changing social circumstances, including events that occur in the first few decades of life, as they have to do with medical advances in treating diseases. 
 The National Long Term Care Surveys, a Federal study that regularly surveys close to 20,000 people aged 65 and older, finds that every year there is a smaller and smaller percentage of old people who are unable to take care of themselves, unable to comb their hair or feed themselves or take a walk.
The surveys use the Medicare population, which includes about 99 percent of all Americans, regardless of their income levels, who are 65 and older. Data from 1994 have just been compiled and analyses have not yet been published, but continue to support the picture of the healthier old.
Although the annual declines in disability rates are only about 1 percent to 2 percent a year, they have continued unabated since 1982, when the survey began, until 1994, the most recent survey. At the same time, the percentage of old people with chronic diseases, like high blood pressure, arthritis and emphysema, has steadily declined.
For example, the number of people over 65 with high blood pressure fell to 39.5 percent in 1989 from 46 percent in 1982. In that period, the number with arthritis dropped to 63.1 percent from 71.1 percent, and the number with emphysema fell to 6.4 percent from 8.9 percent.
The implications are profound, said Dr. Richard Suzman, who directs demography research at the National Institute on Aging.
"This plays to the general question of what's going to happen as the older population, and especially the oldest old, mushrooms in size over the next 50 years," Dr. Suzman said.
It could mean that the growing elderly population may not be quite the economic drain that it was projected to be. The longer people live, Dr. Suzman said, the longer they will need programs like Medicare. But the new findings indicate that Medicare costs might be much less than expected in the coming years, even with the increased life spans of Americans.
For example, Dr. Kenneth Manton, a demographer at Duke University who analyzed the National Long Term Care Surveys, calculates that declining disability rates from 1982 until 1995 have saved Medicare $200 billion. He explained that if the disability rates of 1982 had held steady into 1995, there would have been nearly 300,000 more disabled people aged 65 to 74 in the population last year than 13 years ago. Instead, there were nearly 121,000 fewer disabled people in 1995 than in 1982 in this age group, resulting in the Medicare savings.
Although some demographers have been wary of the new evidence that disease and disability rates are declining, many now say they believe the decline is real. "The evidence is limited but different people have shown with different sources of data the same thing," said Dr. Douglas Wolf, a demographer at Syracuse University. "The preponderance of evidence seems to show that this is true."
There is little doubt that the elderly population is exploding, in large part because death rates from many chronic diseases are plummeting. The annual mortality rate for Americans of all ages from strokes dropped 65.2 percent (79.7 deaths per 100,000 to 27.0 deaths per 100,000) from 1960 to 1990 and the death rate from heart disease dropped 46.9 percent (286.2 per 100,000 to 152.0 per 100,000) in that period, Dr. Manton said.
But the true picture of the steady improvement in these old people's lives comes from studies that ask about how well they go about their daily activities. The best national data, Dr. Wolf and others said, are from the National Long Term Care Surveys. The surveys follow people enrolled in the Medicare program, asking where they live, what their diseases are and whether they are able to care for themselves.
The surveys, Dr. Manton said, are "the closest thing we have to a national population registry."
The picture of a robust elderly population that emerges from these surveys is confirmed by a different kind of study, one that looks at the ability to work. Dr. Eileen Crimmins of the University of Southern California has been analyzing data from a representative sample of about 12,000 Americans aged 50 to 69 for the last 11 years. The people in the study are asked whether their physical or mental health affects their ability to work.
Over the course of the study, Dr. Crimmins and her colleagues found that fewer and fewer people said their ability to work was impaired. For example, in 1982 about 27 percent of men aged 67 to 69 said they were unable to work. But in 1992, just 20 percent of men in that age group could not work. "We regard the ability to work as an indicator of disability," Dr. Crimmins said.
The study was sponsored by the Social Security Administration.
Dr. Crimmins said the declines in reported disability that she observed applied equally to blacks and whites and to the rich and poor.
All these findings lead demographers and researchers on aging to ask why it is that older Americans are less frail and feeble than ever before.
One answer seems to be that people either are not developing the diseases that cripple and disable or are getting them at older ages, Dr. Manton said.
In his survey, he asked about 16 diseases, including diabetes, heart disease, cancer, chronic lung diseases and arthritis. The number of diseases afflicting people over 65 declined by more than 11 percent over the last decade, Dr. Manton said. The largest declines were in the number of people with arthritis or joint problems, high blood pressure and heart disease.
Of course, saying people are healthier because they have fewer diseases begs the question. Why do old people have fewer diseases today than in previous years?
One possibility, Dr. Suzman and others said, is that the changes are an effect of education. In study after study, educational level is associated with better health.
However, higher levels of education are also associated with greater wealth, and it has not been demonstrated that education itself produces beneficial effects.
"Education is one of the most powerful and mysterious variables," Dr. Suzman said. It is associated with health "throughout life and late in life." And there has been a dramatic increase in the education levels of the elderly.
Dr. Samuel Preston, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, calculated that in 1980 more than 60 percent of Americans from 85 to 89 had fewer than eight years of schooling. But by the year 2015, that figure will have dropped to 10 percent to 15 percent.
"We are at the cusp of a rapid increase in the educational status of the oldest old," Dr. Manton said. And, he said, people who are better educated tend to be more likely to change their diets to improve their health, to be nonsmokers and to seek out treatments, like hip and knee replacements, that can prevent disability, Dr. Manton said.
Another possible explanation for the improved health of the elderly, researchers said, is that old people are reaping the benefits of improvements in public health that occurred when they were young. This might mean that people today would enter old age without the subtle lifelong burdens that afflicted earlier generations who were more likely to have had marginal nutrition, poor water quality and poor hygiene.
Then, Dr. Suzman said, there is the contribution of medical advances, like hip replacements, lens replacements for people with cataracts, angioplasty for heart disease, drugs to slow the bone loss of osteoporosis. These could delay or prevent the terrible burdens of chronic diseases that afflicted previous generations.
For now, researchers say they are uncertain which factors are most important in changing the picture of old age in America. But they are convinced that the picture has indeed changed.
"I think that what we define as being elderly has sort of moved up, age-wise," Dr. Manton said. Not too long ago, it might have been expected for a 60-year-old to be frail, to seem elderly. But no more, he added.
 
Still Keeping in Touch at 85
"I feel like I'm about 30 or 40 -- until I look in a mirror," said Virginia McCalmont, 85. "So I try not to look in the mirror." She lives with her cat, Misty, in Clarksville, Md., in a rural area, driving wherever she wants to go.
She goes through three books a week. Books, she said, "keep me alive." But she has no interest in exercise. "I'm lazy," she said.
A widow, she stays in close touch with her three children and takes care of her house, where she has lived for 40 years. Her one regret? "I just wish I was young enough to understand computers," she said. But she added: "I have no need for them. There is no need to burden my mind."
 
Living Well With Disabilities
Frances Brooks, 81, and James Brooks, 87, of Great Falls, Va., live on a 50-acre farm with 20 horses near Washington. "It's a great life," Mrs. Brooks said. She said she and her husband "both have our disabilities, but we live with them."
Surgery for three skin tumors on one leg did not keep her from the things she loves: entertaining, swimming, going to exercise classes, playing with grandchildren like Jeremy Brooks and ballroom dancing.
"Yesterday, we were dancing for three hours," Mr. Brooks said. Until two years ago, he did nearly all the farm work himself. He recently gave up riding, saying he was "getting to the point where I don't want to fall." He added, "as they say, you're no rider if you ain't been tossed."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Living Longer and Better" shows growth in number of those aged 65 and above, from 1982 to 1995 and change in the elderly disabled population in the U.S. from 1982 to 1995. (Source: Dr. Kenneth G. Manton, Duke University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LONG TERM CARE SERVICES CORP (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (56%); LONG TERM CARE PHYSICIANS CORP (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LONGEVITY; RESEARCH DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ARTHRITIS (89%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); HYPERTENSION (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA KENNETH MANTON (58%); RICHARD SUZMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



682 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
1996's gold-price rise sets bulls, bears and bankers to predicting.

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis 

 BODY:
THIS year's mini-gold rush has opened a split of Klondike proportions between the precious metal's bulls and bears.
To the bulls, it suggests that the market is finally awakening to a fundamental imbalance between rising world demand and falling production that points to a further sustained rise in price. And that belief was supported by a sharp rally in gold that took it from $388.10 at the end of last year to $417.70 on the Commodity Exchange in New York earlier this month, its highest price in more than five years. 
 But the bears worry that one way or another the vast hoard of gold that central banks sit on -- about 35,000 tons, or roughly one-third of all that mankind has ever found -- is going to spoil the party, particularly as these supplies pass into the hands of a new generation of central bankers, trained in portfolio management and less sensitive to gold's mystique. And they may be feeling better now, as the price of gold slipped below $400 in New York on Friday and closed yesterday just above that, at $400.60 an ounce.
"This is temporary," said Bette Raptopoulos, a gold analyst at Prudential Securities. "We could still see gold reach $450 to $460 this year."
"Its just a blip," added Sam E. K. Jonah, chief executive of Ashanti Goldfields Company Ltd., the world's seventh-largest producer, based in Accra, Ghana, which this month listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The fundamentals are good," Mr. Jonah said. "There is tremendous demand potential in Asia linked to the new middle class."
"Gold is more likely to end the year at $365," countered Andy Smith, precious-metals analyst for the Union Bank of Switzerland, who said that declining mine output would have the market impact of "a small cream bun on the Empire State Building."
Explanations abound why gold finally smashed its $400-an-ounce ceiling of recent years after shrugging off the Persian Gulf war, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Mexican peso crash.
Technically, the scene for a rally was set late last year, when South Africa moved to sell about 300 tons, which it had not yet mined, for future delivery so as to lock in the then-current price.
The South African forward sales coincided with a shortage of lendable gold to cover the sale, which helped push the current price of gold higher and caused a spike in the cost of leasing the gold to cover a forward sale.
Then, late in January, the Barrick Gold Corporation of Toronto announced that it was cutting its forward gold-selling by one-third in a move that some analysts expect other miners to follow. "We've become inactive as a forward seller, too," Mr. Jonah of Ashanti Goldfields said, "because we don't want to take the steam out of the rally."
Any suggestion that miners will stop selling gold they have not yet dug lifts market prices. And as prices rise, miners have even less incentive to sell forward because they might get more for their gold by waiting.
Many other factors contributed to the price rise. Although inflation is low, the weakened state of the German, French and Japanese economies suggests to some that a renewal of inflation rather than austerity lies ahead. "If Europe gives up on its single currency, there will be more inflation," said Ian McDonald of Credit Suisse.
In the meantime, generally high stock prices and relatively low bond yields encourage investors to look at other markets, and the continuing budget standoff between the White House and Congress unnerves many.
"If U.S. leaders cannot come to any kind of agreement over something as important as the budget deficit, confidence is bound to take a knock," said Rhona O'Connell, gold analyst with T. Hoare & Company of London, who expects gold to trade between $385 and $440 this year.
Then there is the underlying gap between production and demand. Mine output has been falling since 1993, reaching 2,268 tons last year, according to Gold Fields Mineral Services, a London analyst, with 590 more tons entering the market as scrap. But demand from the jewelry and electronics industries, as well as that for coins and ingots, is rising, reaching 3,550 tons last year, or more than 700 tons above supply.
Central banks have been filling this gap and holding the price steady by both selling gold directly and leasing bullion to cover forward mine sales.
What will determine the future price of gold, analysts agree, is how much metal the central banks will make available to the market and whether mining companies continue to sell unmined gold for future delivery. The imbalance between mine and scrap supply, and the demand, should have forced the price up over the last two years. But it held remarkably steady because of the central bankers' involvement.
Some major central banks, including the United States Federal Reserve and the banks of France, Switzerland, Germany and Japan, have already made clear that they will neither sell nor lease their gold.
But in a 1993 study of the gold-leasing market, Ian Cox, a British expert, reckoned that 45 to 50 central banks were lending some of their gold, seeing this as a profitable way to earn a return on what would otherwise be a sterile asset.
Certainly, all the signs are that central banks are now managing their gold reserves more actively. The cost of leasing has slipped back from November's high. And since 1983, gold held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for foreign central banks has fallen sharply -- to 6,360 tons from 10,619, probably in part because of transfers to London, where most leasing takes place.
Those who doubt that gold will go much higher believe that central banks are likely to become even more active in the gold market and that this will encourage a return to forward selling by mining companies. "Barrick was temporary," Mr Cox said. "Hedging growth will continue."
"A new generation of central bankers is coming along who will be net sellers of gold," predicted Mr. Smith of the Union Bank of Switzerland, adding: "They understand modern portfolio-management theory. They know they are overweight in gold. That is the threat to the price." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AU (NYSE) (91%); AGG (ASX) (91%); AGD (LSE) (91%); ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%); UBSN (SWX) (64%); UBS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: GHANA (86%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); ASIA (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: ACCRA, GHANA (50%); 

COMPANY: ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LTD (91%); BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%); UBS AG (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA (86%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); ASIA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ACCRA, GHANA (50%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRICE INCREASES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); GOLD MINING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MINING OUTPUT (62%); DESERT STORM (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



683 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Lists Doubts On Plan to Move Workers

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 26

 BODY:
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall charged today that Gov. George E. Pataki had exaggerated the benefits of his plan to move nearly 5,000 state-financed jobs out of the Democratic strongholds of New York City and Albany, signaling that he was leaning against approving it.
Mr. McCall, a Democrat who by law must sign off on the deal if it is to be approved, said he was highly skeptical of Mr. Pataki's contention that it would save the state money. The plan would shift the workers to vacant buildings owned by I.B.M. in two upstate towns that are in Republican areas. 
 After months of holding back criticism, the Comptroller suggested that Mr. Pataki, a Republican, was using the jobs as fodder for the party's patronage machine, saying that the administration was pitting regions of the state against one another.
"The perception that this is a political issue of helping one community economically at the expense of another has really been very harmful for the state," Mr. McCall said in an interview.
Mr. McCall's assertions brought a quick rebuke from Pataki administration officials. They accused him of meddling in the affairs of the executive branch to boost his standing among Democrats and lay the groundwork for an expected run for Governor in 1998.
First proposed early last year and explained as an effort to consolidate the state's data-processing facilities, the job-transfer plan has turned into one of the administration's most contentious initiatives. Cities and towns that will lose jobs have reacted angrily, while those that will gain have applauded the Governor.
Seeking to mend relations with Mr. Pataki, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has declined to attack the Governor over the part of the plan that would move up to 500 state jobs from the city to I.B.M. buildings in Glendale, which is in Broome County near Binghamton. The other I.B.M. site the state wants to use is in Kingston, in Ulster County.
The Pataki administration estimates that the plan -- which would move about 1,200 state workers and about 3,650 private workers who are on contract to the state -- would save $52 million a year.
Mr. Giuliani has said that he agrees with Mr. Pataki that the proposal will help the state. The Mayor's office declined to comment on Mr. McCall's comments today.
Mr. McCall, who is from Manhattan, said he doubted many of the figures that the Governor had used to justify the deal.
"I don't believe that their numbers add up," Mr. McCall said. "We do not think that they have made the case."
He said he would send a letter to the administration later this week outlining his concerns and, if they were not met, would reject the deal. He noted that, "These are pretty difficult things to overcome."
Mr. McCall focused in particular on the administration's estimate of $52 million in savings, questioning why that number has not changed over the last year even as the plan has been revamped.
And he pointed out that the administration had never conducted a full-scale study to examine the advantage of the moves. Only recently, he said, did it put out a contract for an outside consultant to give advice on the plan.
Originally, Mr. Pataki wanted to move only government jobs to the two sites. But after opposition from unions and State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader, whose district includes many state workers in Albany, he shifted gears in September and decided to move 3,650 private jobs from Albany as well as a small number of state workers.
The private jobs are from the Fleet Financial Group, which is under contract to process state tax forms.
Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, said the administration had developed the plan carefully and was confident that it would be successful.
"The previous administration believed in doing nothing but studies," Ms. Mucha said. "We have seen enough studies to know that this is the right course. It will save the taxpayers money, and it will increase efficiency in government."
But Mr. McCall also said he believed the Legislature might have to approve the deal because the state would be paying about $13 million to $14 million annually for lease payments, maintenance and other costs for the eight I.B.M. buildings, which have about 1.4 million square feet of space.
If the Legislature did have to vote on the plan, it would probably die because of opposition from the Democrats who control the Assembly.
Pataki administration officials have argued strenuously that the Legislature has no role in the deal, saying that the Office of General Services, which oversees state buildings, often enters into such agreements without legislative approval.
Peter W. Delaney, the Commissioner of General Services, said the state was clearly getting a bargain. He said it would be paying less than $10 a square foot and under the deal would gain ownership of the buildings after 25 years.
"If I.B.M. had built these buildings in Syracuse, we would be in Syracuse, if they had built them in Albany, we would have been in Albany," he said. "That is where they are. It is top of the line technological space that we can get for one-tenth of what it would cost to build today. And it doesn't exist anywhere in Albany." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; ALBANY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CITIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (62%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



684 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Some Hedge Funds Are Hurt By a Rise in Interest Rates

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Several big hedge funds, which invest billions of dollars for the wealthy, have lost money in recent days as long-term interest rates have risen unexpectedly. As a result, some of these swashbuckling investment firms have given up the sizable profits they made in January, and in some cases have even registered losses, traders and analysts said.
In general, hedge fund managers seem to be sticking to their positions, expecting the earlier market trends to reassert themselves. Still, the setbacks for many big funds have contributed to the tone of uncertainty and volatility in the markets. 
 Yesterday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.45 percent, from 6.40 percent on Friday. As recently as Jan. 19, the yield was below 6 percent. And stocks continued in the erratic pattern that brought declines in the Dow Jones industrial average early last week before a rebound to record levels on Thursday and Friday. Yesterday, the Dow fell 65.39 points.
The net asset value of the Quantum Fund N.V., the oldest and largest fund managed by the investor George Soros, was down 2 percent yesterday from the beginning of the year. Before falling, the fund had climbed 5.5 percent in the first few weeks of the year from its value of $5.3 billion on Jan. 1, a spokesman for Soros Fund Management said. The Quota Fund, another hedge fund managed by Mr. Soros, with assets of $1.3 billion and a more aggressive investment approach, is down 8.6 percent from the beginning of the year.
"We did have a lot of volatility recently," said Michael J. Foley, the director for client services at Strome Susskind, a hedge fund based in Santa Monica, Calif., that manages about $500 million. He attributed some of the volatility to the strong showing of Patrick J. Buchanan in the campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination, and to the weakness of Mr. Buchanan's rivals.
Mr. Foley declined to quantify his fund's recent performance, citing regulations that he said prevented American hedge funds from releasing such data. The Soros funds are based in the Netherlands Antilles.
Hedge funds are so named because they invest in options and futures, which are ways to place bets or offset risk in the financial markets. The hedge funds are closely watched by other investors because of their enviable track record: Mr. Soros, for example, made more than $1 billion in 1992 from speculating that the British pound would decline and from related investment strategies.
So-called macro hedge funds, which often place big bets on the direction of currencies and interest rates, generally performed well last year and in January. The value of Mr. Soros's Quantum Fund, for instance, rose 39 percent last year, while the Quota Fund increased by a startling 160 percent. The Strome Susskind fund is said to have had average annual returns of as much as 35 percent in recent years.
"January was very strong over all for the large macro hedge funds, but February is more difficult because we have seen trend reversals in bonds and in the dollar," said Antoine Bernheim, the publisher of Hedge Fund News, an industry publication. Such reversals "are often difficult for traders," he added, "but it's early in the year and so far we have not seen either great damage or great gains."
Sol Waksman, president of Barclay Trading Group Ltd., said, "In the last few days it has been difficult for anybody trading interest rates on a leveraged basis to make money." Barclay is a consulting firm in Fairfield, Iowa, that specializes in hedge funds and managed futures.
"Everyone anticipated continued lowering of interest rates, then Greenspan came out and said the economy is stronger than people thought it was," Mr. Waksman said, referring to the testimony of Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, before Congress last week. "Everyone was lined up on the other side of the fence, and they were scrambled."
Another prominent hedge fund manager said, "The combination of a big move in long-term rates, which upset the optimism in the fixed-income market, the fact the bond market had already peaked when the budget talks fell apart and Clinton's speech bashing the Fed unnerved the markets."
Some big hedge fund managers seemed particularly chastened by the sudden change in the markets because it provided a warning to them of how hedging against rapid shifts had become more difficult.
One manager said this was particularly apparent in the futures contract based on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. As stock prices have risen, the value of the lots in which this contract is sold has risen as well, leading to a decrease in the liquidity, he said. This, he added, raised the possibility that hedge funds would not be able to balance their positions properly when they needed to. "It would be like finding the fire door locked," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (52%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (52%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING HEDGE FUNDS (96%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); FUTURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); BRITISH POUND (60%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER GEORGE SOROS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



685 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Ending Lively Era, A Dean Is Leaving St. John the Divine;
The Innovator's Work Is Done, Even if the Cathedral Is Not

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
If anything, the Very Rev. James Parks Morton is a showman. He once exhibited a sculpture of a female Jesus, complete with bare breasts, as a statement against sexism. A Hudson River blue crab lives in a murky tank in a side chapel as a statement on the environment.
The Cathedral of St. John the Divine is also home to a peacock, a tightrope walker in residence and a daily procession of homeless souls. 
 As Dean, or administrative head, of the world's largest Gothic cathedral and the nation's largest church, Father Morton has fashioned something of a new-age emporium. At the same time he has created a 20th-century version of a medieval cathedral: a bustling, intellectually provocative town common. Indeed, over the last 25 years, the cathedral under his direction has become one of the city's most significant gathering places, a prominent advocate for the poor and a political and religious forum for everyone from Jesse Jackson to the Dalai Lama.
Now 66, Dean Morton plans to announce his resignation today, effective Jan. 1, 1997. His new job, which he declines to discuss, will be head of a new organization, the Interfaith Center of New York. A search committee has begun hunting for a successor, one Dean Morton hopes has a sense of humor.
"The worst thing in the world is pompous clergy," he deadpanned.
"In terms of really new things," he added, explaining his decision, "I've moved in the directions I really wanted to move in. I could be here for another 10 years and we could be making a little more of a dent, but, I mean, the thing has started."
The rumpled cleric's once sandy hair has turned gray over the quarter century, but he has achieved much of what he had hoped to. St. John the Divine, which sits by Columbia University in Morningside Heights, started a program to reclaim abandoned housing and rebuild it through owners' sweat, creating more than 20,000 apartments. It feeds the hungry, trains the homeless for life in real homes, and each week intervenes in some 150 personal and spiritual crises.
And like the medieval cathedrals built large enough to fit the entire town, where commerce and conferences took place, St. John the Divine has become a major stage for collective dramas, a place for the nation's biggest city to examine and heal its soul. It was here that Big Bird eulogized Jim Henson and that Mayor David N. Dinkins convened the city to pray for an end to racial tensions in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. After the Persian Gulf War, Generals Colin L. Powell and H. Norman Schwarzkopf were welcomed at the cathedral as well as protesters screaming, "Murder in the cathedral!"
"This is the cathedral of our common humanity," Mr. Dinkins said.
Dean Morton takes pride in the broad function of the cathedral and points to its traditional religious practices, including at least two communion services a day, in answer to criticism over the years by some restive Episcopalians that their best-known church is more associated with spectacle than Christian spirituality.
The seat of the Bishop of New York, St. John the Divine operates as the pre-eminent Episcopal church in the diocese, but under its own governance and with money it raises itself. Cathedrals are intended as houses of worship as well as great meeting places, and St. John the Divine has built up an intimate congregation of 1,000. While Dean Morton oversees a staff of more than 150 priests and administrators, he also acts as something of a parish priest.
Dean Morton began his clerical work as a priest in Jersey City and then headed the church's national effort to minister to the poor. The Right Rev. Paul Moore Jr. worked with him in the Jersey City slums and in establishing the Urban Training Center in Chicago to train clergy of all denominations in ministering to he urban poor. In 1972, Father Moore was installed as Episcopal Bishop of New York. Saying he viewed the cathedral as "a screaming anachronism," he named his protege, Father Morton, to turn it around.
Dean Morton, born in Houston, spent his boyhood in a succession of universities where his father, an Episcopalian, taught theater arts. He arrived at Harvard as an atheist intent on becoming an architect in the socialist tradition of Gropius. Then he heard Father Moore speak about the French priests who cast aside their collars and worked anonymously in factories. He sought spiritual answers in sources as diverse as Jewish Hasidism and Russian Orthodoxy. He marched beside The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and, in Chicago in the 1960's, taught the Rev. Jesse Jackson ways to combine the gospel with social action.
Part of his spiritual transformation came while watching the moon landing on television. He saw the earth, just one fragile living planet hanging in space, from the moon and thereafter he moved environmentalism to the heart of his theology.
"They call me the green dean," he said proudly, mentioning the blue crab living in a cathedral tank, a few steps from an AIDS memorial. As part of his global role in environmental matters, he has linked up scientists like Carl Sagan with religious leaders. He frequently invites scientists, even if professed atheists, to deliver sermons at the cathedral.
"This planet is God's creation and God's just a word," Dean Morton said. "I'm not talking about believing in God."
A lover of great buildings, Dean Morton says that the vast cathedral, which is the world's longest at 601 feet, has given him a sense of proportion.
"Humility is kind of an asinine word in a way, but a cathedral does make one humble in a sense," he said. "It's terribly important to realize you can't complete it."
Ambitions for the cathedral have always been audacious. As construction began in 1892, the idea was to combine three prestigious institutions founded by Episcopalians -- Columbia University, St. Luke's Hospital and the cathedral -- in what church leaders thought would become the center of the city. The motive, Dean Morton jokes, was to create "WASP Central" as well as to compete with the cathedrals of great European cities.
But then began the endless construction and money problems that long ago gave the cathedral the nickname St. John the Unfinished. Horace Donegan, Bishop from 1950 to 1972, declared that the cathedral "will not be built until the stresses of our city be ceased." Backed by conservative trustees, including the president of Columbia University, Grayson Kirk, who was fighting his own battles with rebellious students up the street, the bishop's pronouncement became gospel.
"The cathedral became a symbol of the brokenness of our city," Dean Morton said.
In 1982, after a hiatus of more than 40 years, the building resumed, with Dean Morton enlisting unemployed neighborhood youths as stone-cutting apprentices to be taught by European masters. The tightrope walker Philippe Petit, an artist in residence whose informal office is an aerie overlooking the nave 60 feet below, crossed Amsterdam Avenue on a high wire to set the first stone in four decades. (Late-night cathedral guards say he sometimes climbs the shadowy upper walls, like a giant spider.)
But for nearly two years now, the building effort has been stalled because of a dispute with a contractor and perpetual money problems.
"This is the way cathedrals are," Dean Morton said. "They start, stop, start, stop."
To many, the Dean's biggest accomplishments have been on a smaller, human scale.
Betsy Blachly Chapin, a member of a group based in the cathedral's crypt that plays medieval music, speaks of Dean Morton's making time to personally baptize her son on a day the Dean was busy entertaining the Archbishop of Canterbury, counseling her after her divorce and requiring her and her current husband to meet with him three times for more than an hour each before he married them.
She recalls both her and her fiance's squirming when Dean Morton declared, "Now, birds, I've got to tell the bishop why each of you got divorced."
Dean Morton himself has been married 42 years. He and his wife, Pamela Taylor, whose father, Francis Henry Taylor, was director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, have four grown daughters. The couple will find themselves house-hunting for the first time in 25 years when they leave the deanery, a house with no fewer than seven maid's rooms.
By August the search committee is to present its selection for dean to Bishop Richard F. Grein of New York, and the cathedral's trustees to make the final choice. But already, there is a sense of loss among the faithful.
Lore Schiroka, a congregant, remembers suggesting more than a decade ago that she help children fold thousands of origami cranes, the Japanese symbol for peace, to decorate a huge Christmas tree. "Let the cranes fly!" Dean Morton responded.
Mrs. Schiroka does not know what will happen to the Peace Tree. "I'll be doing it one more time this year," she said, "for the Dean."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Very Rev. James Parks Morton, Dean of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, is to announce his resignation today. In 25 years, he has made the church a 20th-century version of a medieval cathedral -- a bustling, intellectually provocative town common. He stood outside the deanery, his home on the cathedral grounds, last week. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CATHEDRAL OF ST JOHN THE DIVINE (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATHEDRAL OF ST JOHN THE DIVINE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RELIGION (91%); MAYORS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); DESERT STORM (60%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; MORTON, JAMES PARKS (VERY REV) JESSE JACKSON (58%); DALAI LAMA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



686 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
America's Big Idea Museum

BYLINE: By KARL E. MEYER 

 BODY:
It is assuredly not what he wanted, but whatever Steve Forbes's fate in the campaign, he can now claim the rare distinction of adding a new exhibit to the American Museum of Big Ideas. His flat tax joins a procession of cure-everything formulas that, in their season, became the talk of the country and, in some cases, led to changes. This was partly because each plainly touched a tender nerve.
Such was the case, for example, with Henry George's Single Tax in the 1880's, and with the Free Silver crusade in 1896. It was also true of the now-forgotten Townsend Plan in the 1930's. 
 Interestingly, all these Big Ideas originated in the Great West, and were propelled eastward by fluently spoken and printed words. Born poor in Philadelphia, Henry George migrated in the 1850's to San Francisco, where he became a successful and mostly self-taught journalist. Resembling an Old Testament prophet and endowed with mesmerizing eloquence, George was moved by the poverty that mocked California's gold-rush glitter during the great crash of 1877.
It came to him, as in a revelation, that all social ills were rooted in the iniquitous unearned appreciation of land values. He proposed enacting a single tax on those profits in his impassioned book "Progress and Poverty," offering these claims for his idea:
"What I propose, therefore, is the simple yet sovereign remedy, which will raise wages, increase the earnings of capital, extirpate pauperism, abolish poverty, give remunerative employment to whoever wishes it, afford free scope to human powers, lessen crime, elevate morals, and taste, and intelligence, purify government and carry civilization to yet nobler height."
His book, with its electrifying message, became a worldwide best seller. Now famous and having moved to New York, George in 1886 ran for mayor as a trade-union candidate, and did unexpectedly well. His influential preaching helped prepare the ground for a new Big Idea in the next decade: the belief that devaluing gold by upgrading far more abundant silver would confer almost as many benefits as the Single Tax.
A Chicago journalist, William Hope Harvey, gave wings to this message in a book entitled "Coin's Financial School" (1893), which sold a sensational 400,000 copies within a year. Its inflationary thesis, which originated in the Western silver-producing states, provoked a furious outcry from those who soon were dubbed "gold bugs," and his Big Idea was taken up by Nebraska's William Jennings Bryan, "the Boy Orator of the Platte."
As the Democratic Presidential nominee in 1896, Bryan uttered perhaps the most famous sentence in an acceptance speech: "You shall not press down on the brow of labor this crown of thorns; you shall not crucify mankind on a cross of gold." Bryan lost, badly, but his essential point was scarcely nonsensical. Rising gold prices cruelly penalized debtors, an unfairness that was ameliorated by the discovery of gold in South Africa.
Similarly, Henry George's message was not so outlandish. Narrowing grievous inequalities between the poor and rich is a justifiable consideration in tax legislation. When the Supreme Court ruled in 1895 that the income tax was unconstitutional, a populist outcry galvanized support for an amendment to the contrary that was ratified in 1913.
The same afterlife helped redeem a seemingly outlandish idea hatched in 1933 by Dr. Francis Everett Townsend, a physician in Long Beach, Calif. Dr. Townsend was 66 when he wrote a letter to the local newspaper arguing that everyone over 60 should get Federal pensions of $150 or more "on condition they spend the money as they get it." A clever friend of Dr. Townsend's, a realtor, instantly saw the promotional allure of the plan, whose ante was hiked to $200, to be paid by a national sales tax. Soon Townsendites bloomed into a hymn-singing movement with chapters everywhere -- its message smudged, however, by its founder's ties with demagogic allies like Huey Long.
Even so, the Townsend Plan drew national attention to the plight of penniless oldsters. As Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. notes, Dr. Townsend had "shouted until the whole country heard," and his movement speeded passage of the Social Security Act. By the same token, in seizing on a flat-tax proposal put forward by California economists and embraced by a handful of other politicians, Steve Forbes builds on an old tradition. A simpler tax return may yet be his memorial. KARL E. MEYER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FLAT TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); WRITERS (88%); JOURNALISM (88%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); MAYORS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE; MEYER, KARL E HENRY GEORGE (86%); FRANCIS EVERETT TOWNSEND (75%); WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN (64%); STEVE FORBES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



687 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-15
 
U.S. ACTION ON CUBA
President Clinton responded to Cuba's downing of two small American planes by suspending charter air travel and saying he would support legislation to tighten sanctions against Cuba. A1
 
CUBA BLAMES THE U.S.
Cuba said it was justified in downing two private American planes in order to protect its sovereignty and blamed the United States for fomenting the episode. A14
 
ISRAEL VOWS WAR ON MILITANTS
Israel said that peace efforts would not end but that it would wage war on Hamas militants for the weekend bombings, and there was public outcry for pressure on the Palestinian self-rule Government. A1
 
ARAB MILITANT BLAMES ISRAEL
A leader of an Arab militant group contended that the bombings were in response to Israeli assassinations, and people on the streets of Gaza blamed an attack on a Palestinian militant. A12
 
TRADE IN COUNTERFEIT U.S. BILLS
Officials have turned up evidence of a huge trade in the Middle East involving millions of dollars in high-quality counterfeit $100 bills, including hints of sponsorship by foreign governments. A10
 
AS SERBS FLEE, MUSLIMS RETURN
In a suburb of the Bosnian capital where Serbs who feared control by Government police have been fleeing, Muslims who once lived there and were forced to leave during the war are returning. A2
 
MAJOR WINS BRITISH VOTE
The Government of Prime Minister John Major held on by one vote in a debate over an investigation into the Government's role in sales of military equipment to Iraq. A3
 
Warsaw Journal: Defending a free press, with teeth gritted. A4
 
National A16-20
 
SOURCE OF BUCHANAN'S PULL
Patrick Buchanan's views on social issues like abortion and immigration are attracting voters to his campaign more than his economic populism, a new poll showed. A1
 
DOLE RESHUFFLES
Bob Dole said he has dismissed his campaign pollster and demoted his deputy chairman as the campaign heads into a crucial period. A1
 
BUCHANAN'S JOURNEY
Mr. Buchanan has progressed from a long-shot candidate to the champion of a critical new political movement. A18
 
APPEALING TO NORTH DAKOTA
North Dakota would seem to be Pat Buchanan country. But the candidate seems to have made few inroads in the farm state. A18
 
FORBES'S NEW MESSAGE
Steve Forbes has been telling crowds that his message is far more important than the fate of the messenger. A19
 
Fox television will give air time to the candidates this fall. A19
 
Lamar Alexander focused his campaigning on the South. A19
 
MILITARY GAY POLICY UNCHANGED
Two years after the Clinton Administration enacted a policy of "don't ask, don't tell," service members say the military is still asking some troops about their sexual orientation. A1
 
CAMBODIAN ACTOR SLAIN
Dr. Haing S. Ngor, the Cambodian physician who won an Academy Award for his performance in "The Killing Fields," was killed outside his home in Los Angeles. A16
 
ARGUING OVER DRUG SENTENCING
There was little agreement in the Supreme Court over what to do about the disparity between prosecution rates of blacks and whites for crimes involving crack. A17
 
Metro Report B1-6
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
 East Village pirate radio. C11
 
"The John Larroquette Show" lightens up. C16
 
Theater: "Sleep Deprivation Chamber." C11
 
Television: "Frontline: Breast Implants on Trial." C16
 
Abducted by aliens. C16
 
Fashion A21
 
Science C1-10
 
LIVING BETTER LONGER
 
Contrary to some scientists' fears, many of the growing number of old people are not becoming a medical burden but are instead enjoying a vigorous old age. Page A1
 
A chance for a big-league landscape rescue in California. C1
 
The cradle of galaxies glimpsed in distant images. C1
 
Sports B8-14
 
High school star ponders future B9
 
Baseball: Mets work on gloves B12
 
Obituaries B7
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
The Cuban shootdown.
 
Using greenery to breed bucks.
 
Karl E. Meyer: Big ideas.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Shall we wait and see?
 
Alfred E. Eckes: Who says Republicans are free-traders?
 
Karen Armstrong: The Episcopal Inquisition.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle B4
 
Chess C10
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%); HAMAS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); HAMAS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); RELIGION (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); CELEBRITIES (63%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



688 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: The Surplus That Wouldn't Die;
Matsushita Tries and Fails to Balance Its Trade Books

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan

 BODY:
Shoppers flock to the four L.L. Bean stores in Japan for the latest in rugged American fashions. And with each sale of a parka or pair of boots, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company chalks up another import.
Japan's L.L. Bean shops were opened by Matsushita, the giant maker of Panasonic electronics products, as part of its five-year program, begun in 1988, to voluntarily reduce its contribution to the country's huge trade surplus. Besides Bean gear, Matsushita also imports Famous Grouse Scotch, Schweppes beverage concentrate and other products completely unrelated to the electronics business to pad its imports. 
 But the five-year program was largely a bust. Matsushita's trade surplus -- its exports from Japan minus its imports -- dropped only 4 percent, to 1.11 trillion yen, or about $11 billion, in 1993.
The company's trade surplus with North America, however, declined steadily over the period, falling by more than one-third, to $2.9 billion in 1993. That is because, with the rise of the Japanese yen, many of the products Matsushita once sent to the United States from Japan are now being replaced by products made in Matsushita factories in Southeast Asia or made in America. That trend continued in the past two years, after the five-year plan ended, further reducing the company's trade deficit with the United States. Meanwhile, Matsushita sends components from Japan to those factories, keeping its total exports high.
A close look at Matsushita's import and export patterns, made possible by the company's willingness to release figures from its five-year plan, shows how resilient Japanese companies are as manufacturers and exporters.
"The U.S. deficit with Japan is declining," said Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, a group that argues for a tougher United States trade policy. "The U.S. deficit with Japanese companies is remaining much the same."
Even most of Matsushita's imports, which have risen sharply in recent years, come either from the company's own factories outside Japan or from the overseas factories of Japanese parts suppliers.
Matsushita's experience also offers some lessons for United States trade policy at a time when protectionism has become an issue in the Presidential campaign.
One lesson is that simply imposing a 10 percent tariff on imports from Japan, as proposed by the Republican Presidential candidate Patrick J. Buchanan, would have little effect on shutting off the flow of Japanese goods.
"Companies like Matsushita that have operations all over the world have effectively hedged against gunboat diplomacy such as Buchanan is advocating," said Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management and former Under Secretary of Commerce. (Mr. Buchanan, however, has also called for tariffs against developing nations as well.)
Another lesson is that the rise of the yen has been more effective than trade pressures in reducing Matsushita's trade surplus. The high yen made it a matter of profits, rather than politics, for Matsushita to increase imports and reduce exports.
"We used to need a corporate cheerleader," to increase imports, said Yoichi Miyata, an official in Matsushita's corporate planning office. "But now we don't need that anymore."
Indeed, Matsushita's global trade surplus, which barely budged during the five-year plan has dropped 20 percent, to a projected 890 billion yen, or $8.9 billion, in the two years since the end of the plan -- a period in which the yen soared.
The same is true for Japan as a whole, with its trade surplus with the world and with the United States dropping in 1995 for the first time in five years.
C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a nonpartisan economics research group in Washington, said Matsushita's response to the strong yen argued against the need for the strong tactics proposed by Mr. Buchanan. "I think this adds to the case that he is nutty," Mr. Bergsten said. "This shows that the adjustment is happening without any of that."
At the same time, a tightly focused trade pressure to increase American sales in Japan can make a difference. Matsushita executives said in interviews that the 1986 semiconductor trade agreement between the United States and Japan was instrumental in prompting the company to consider American chips. The agreement set as a goal that 20 percent of Japan's semiconductor market would be held by foreign chips by mid-1991.
Many of Japan's largest companies, prompted by Japan's Government, announced voluntary plans in the late 1980's to help reduce trade tensions. Matsushita's release of its trade figures provides a window on the effectiveness of such plans.
Looking at one company's trade patterns can be instructive because a big portion of international trade consists of movements of goods between two parts of the same multinational company. Matsushita officials think their company has the fourth-largest corporate trade surplus in Japan, behind Toyota, Nissan and Honda.
Matsushita is a sprawling enterprise with revenues of 6.9 trillion yen, or about $69 billion, in its last fiscal year, equal to the sales of the General Electric Company. It makes everything from washing machines to robots and has about 120 factories overseas, including 19 in the United States.
About 50 percent of the Osaka-based company's production is made in Japan and sold here. Another 30 percent is made in Japan and exported. The remaining 20 percent is made overseas and sold overseas. A fourth category, products made overseas and sold in Japan, has until now been negligible.
When Matsushita announced its five-year plan in 1988 it imported only 5.7 percent of the parts used in its Japanese factories.
"In 1988 we imported virtually nothing except some semiconductors," said Toshihiko Murota, managing director of Matsushita Communication Industrial Company, a subsidiary that makes telephones and car audio equipment. "We didn't have consciousness of the need to import."
Even the semiconductors, he conceded, were imported only because of the 1986 semiconductor trade agreement.
Purchasing managers were comfortable buying from Japanese companies. So Matsushita went over their heads, requiring its division chiefs to come up with annual import targets.
Slowly imports began climbing. By the end of the five-year plan, Matsushita as a whole had doubled its imports to 440 billion yen, or about $4.4 billion.
The problem was that exports had started out so much larger than imports that even a doubling of imports could not dent Matsushita's trade surplus. Exports rose only 12 percent over the five years, but in monetary terms, that increase was almost the same as the rise in imports.
Mr. Bergsten, the Washington economist, said the same initial lopsidedness was the reason the United States trade deficit with Japan had not been declining much, even though Japan's imports from the United States had been growing faster than Japan's exports to the United States.
But it is in the last two years that Matsushita's imports have accelerated because of the rising yen. This year about 20 percent of the parts used by Matsushita Communication in Japan will be imported, with the number rising to 30 percent next year, Mr. Murota said. By contrast, the subsidiary imported only 9.7 percent in 1993, the last year of the five-year plan, and 4.7 percent in 1988.
Mr. Murota said that most of his company's imports were from Japanese parts manufacturers operating abroad, which are trusted, high-quality suppliers.
But while imports of parts have been increasing, importing finished products has been somewhat of a taboo. "It's very difficult to accept seeing finished products coming into Japan when we see more unemployment in the domestic industry," said Mr. Miyata of the corporate planning office.
When the company began its five-year plan, only 2.3 percent of what it produced overseas was sold in Japan. The company set a goal of 10 percent but achieved only 7.8 percent.
But now, the pressure of the strong yen has changed that. To remain competitive against cheaper imports in its home market, Matsushita started importing television sets, air-conditioners and audio products from Malaysia and some other nations.
Still, less than 3 percent of the finished products Matsushita sold in Japan last year were imported. For televisions, the percentage was 20 to 30 percent of units, but much less than that in terms of value.
As for exports, Matsushita's total has been generally declining since 1991, in part because of the shift to offshore manufacturing. But the decline in exports has not been sharp.
While Matsushita is exporting fewer finished products like VCR's, it is exporting more components, both to its new overseas factories and to other companies. In the 1994 fiscal year, when the yen's sharp rise was felt, Matsushita's exports of finished products from Japan plunged by about $2 billion, but exports of parts rose by the same amount.
Matsushita Communication's Yokohama factory now mainly makes internal mechanisms for videocassette players, compact disk players and radios, many of which are exported to the United States. The Yokohama production lines are highly automated, allowing manufacturing to stay in Japan, Mr. Murota said.
This shift, from exporting consumer goods to exporting parts and factory machinery, has been taking place in Japanese industry as a whole. But its effect on sustaining Japan's exports might be only short-lived.
One reason is that offshore factories are under pressure to shift to local sourcing. When Matsushita analyzed its overseas subsidiaries it found that "the companies that are profitable have high ratios of local procurement," said Ryoji Mita, who supervised the five-year plan. "The companies dependent on parts from Japan have no profits," because those parts are expensive.
With the yen having weakened in recent weeks to about 105 to the dollar, the trade patterns could reverse. Kyushu Matsushita, a subsidiary, is bringing back to Japan the manufacturing of some facsimile machines that had been shifted to Malaysia.
But Matsushita officials suggested such cases would be rare. "We already have many factories overseas," Mr. Miyata said. "So we cannot bring the factories back to Japan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At an L.L. Bean store display in Tokyo, Matsushita sells American-made boots in an attempt to cut its trade surplus. (Denis Budd Gray)
 
Graphs: "Matsushita's Mixed Message"
 
A Trade Surplus Drops . . .
 Since 1988, Matsushita has cut its trade surplus between Japan and North America by more than half. Graph tracks Matsushita's trade surplus with North America from 1988 through an estimated 1995.
 
. . . For a Few Reasons
 1. Fewer Direct Exports.
 The strength of the yen relative to the dollar has made Japanese products too expensive for U.S. markets.
 2. More Mandated Imports.
 The 1986 Semiconductor Trade Agreement set goals for the purchase of foreign chips by Japanese manufacturers.
 3. More Indirect Sales.
 Matsushita has shifted its factories offshore so that the U.S.-Japan trade figures does not capture goods it makes in countries other than Japan. Graphs show breakdowns of dollar value related to products sold in the U.S. from a third country, from Japan, and from production in the U.S. during fiscal years 1993 and 1995. (Source: Matsushita Electric Industrial) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (96%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO PANASONIC CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTION ISSUES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); ELECTRONICS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); TRENDS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW PATRICK J BUCHANAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



689 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Thomson to Buy Legal Publisher In a $3.43 Billion Cash Accord

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

 BODY:
The Thomson Corporation continued its strategic move into electronic publishing and on-line information services yesterday with the announcement that it would buy West Publishing Company, a leading provider of legal research materials, for $3.43 billion in cash, most of it borrowed.
The acquisition would double Thomson's stake in the lucrative on-line legal and regulatory information research market, adding West Publishing's $825 million in annual sales from its Westlaw and other lawyers' services to the revenue from Thomson's own legal publishing division, which came to $800 million last year. 
 But the all-cash deal would produce an operating loss loss of $30 million for Thomson's new West Publishing activities for the last nine months of this year, a drop that would be reflected, however slightly, in the company's overall net income, according to Thomson officials. The acquisition would break even by the end of next year with a cash flow of better than $300 million to the parent, the officials said, though the full purchase price will not be repaid for another 9 or 10 years.
Thomson said it expected the deal, which is subject to United States antitrust clearance and other regulatory approvals, to be completed by the first part of April.
While the legal address of Thomson is Toronto, its headquarters and most of its North American staff are in Stamford, Conn., where company officials, in a telephone conference call with analysts, said that the fit between the parent and its proposed new acquisition went beyond the similarity in the two companies' on-line services.
The strengths of West Publishing are in its primary law data files, the officials said, while Thomson Legal's depth is in secondary legal references and background documents. Lawyers often need both levels of research in preparing court documents.
W. Michael Brown, the president of Thomson, said the company's biggest acquisition ever was also its most logical. Over the last decade, Mr. Brown said yesterday, Thomson has gradually divested itself of numerous small newspapers and other publishing interests that were heavily dependent on the vagaries of advertising revenues, to concentrate on specialty publishing, including on-line serv vertising revenues, to concentrate on specialty publishing, including on-line services, that generate income through subscription and on-line charges.
"We didn't want to build up a grab-bag in this area," Mr. Brown said. "We wanted products that were of high utility to the user, that had long life and for which, ideally, the customer paid the bill, that were not overly dependent on the state of the economy and not overly dependent on advertising. Those were our benchmarks."
Douglas E. Kirk, a financial analyst in Toronto with Nesbitt Burns, said yesterday that the purchase made sense.
"I think it's a very good fit with some of the businesses they have now," he said. "It's one of those things -- a slight reduction in earnings up front, but the potential for a very significant return in the longer run."
Thomson operates mainly in Britain, Canada and the United States with more than 48,000 employees and earnings of $6.3 billion last year. West Publishing, a closely held company with just 200 shareholders, employs 7,000.
Mr. Brown and other Thomson officials were at pains to justify the high purchase price -- the most Thomson has paid in a string of recent acquisitions -- for a company that deals in a product whose raw material -- millions of words from court decisions, regulatory decisions and state and Federal statute books -- are all in the public domain.
They said it was West Publishing's business of analyzing, annotating and cross-referencing this flood of information that added value to the company's product. Indeed, the company earned $206 million in operating profits on sales of $827 million, for a profit margin approaching 25 percent, for the 1995 fiscal year. Westlaw dominates the on-line legal research industry in the United States, with clients in virtually all of the nation's largest law firms.
Nevertheless, the high cost of the debt that Thomson will incur to make the planned purchase will strain the company's debt structure and will, the company expects, lead to a decline in its bond ratings in the short term.
Thomson's stock on the Toronto Exchange closed at $19.375 (Canadian), or $14.14 (United States), yesterday, down 75 cents (Canadian), or 55 cents (United States).
A year ago, Thomson announced that its newspaper division, Thomson Newspapers, would shed 25 United States dailies as part of its strategy to concentrate on its marketing and electronic information systems. The company also sold more than a dozen small Canadian papers under the same strategy.
"A decade ago, in the early 1980's, we had a mixed quantity of interest that were generally unrelated to our core interests," Mr. Brown said. "Over the decade we have divested ourselves, on a timely basis and for good prices, of most of these, and at the same time we have invested very heavily to capture our core market interests."
It is a policy, Mr. Brown said, that Thomson had followed "with utterly boring consistency ever since."
When Mr. Brown joined Thomson 28 years ago, more than 90 percent of the company's revenues were from advertising, a notoriously cyclical source of income. Today, Mr. Brown said, advertising revenue accounts for about 15 percent of revenue, most of it from newspapers in America and Canada.
Fully 40 percent of West Publishing sales come from subscriptions, said Nigel Harrison, chief financial officer of Thomson. "We like cash that comes in first, before the product goes out the door," Mr. Harrison said. It was by design that the company's income profile had made such change, Mr. Brown added.


GRAPHIC: Raising its profile as a publisher of legal information, the Thompson Corporation yesterday announced that is would acquire West Publihing for $3.4 billion in cash. Graph show breakdown of Thompson's main business line sales, for the nine months ended Sept. 30. (Source: Company reports) 
Graph: "A Legal Victory"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (93%); TRI (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: WEST PUBLISHING CO; THOMSON CORP WEST PUBLISHING CO (94%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEST PUBLISHING CO; THOMSON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; LEGAL PROFESSION PUBLISHING (96%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (90%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER W MICHAEL BROWN (65%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



690 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: NORTH DAKOTA;
In Farm State, Buchanan Finds No Help in History

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: BISMARCK, N.D. Feb. 24

 BODY:
Landlocked in the nation's prairie heartland, North Dakota would seem to be Pat Buchanan country.
Politics here carries the stamp of an earlier version of "Buchananism" -- a powerful populist movement that liked to envision Eastern banks, railroads and grain companies prostrate before the North Dakota farmer. 
 Using a cantankerous billygoat as its symbol, North Dakota's Non-Partisan League opposed "gang politics" in Washington and protested the American entry into World War I. To break the economic grip of big Eastern corporations, the league built a state-run development bank and a state-run wheat mill. In 1936, a North Dakota Congressman ran for President under the banner of a party organized by Father Charles Coughlin, the populist radio priest.
Sixty years later, the league still lives, but the modern standard-bearer of populism seems to have made few inroads in this farm state, long considered Senator Bob Dole's territory. One of the nation's largest wheat and barley producers, North Dakota depends heavily on exporting its grain and fears Mr. Buchanan's protectionism.
On Wednesday, Mr. Buchanan canceled his only planned visit to North Dakota and instead gave a few radio interviews over the weekend. A poll released on Thursday showed Senator Dole with 37 percent support, Steve Forbes with 16 percent and Mr. Buchanan with 11 percent.
If Mr. Buchanan does poorly here and in South Dakota on Tuesday, it will indicate that the farm belt may be one hole in a populist quilt that he is trying to stitch across the land.
Despite a flurry of Buchanan signs at Republican meetings around the state in the days before the primary, no last-minute shifts were expected, partly because of the unique characteristics of Tuesday's vote. The primary inaugurates mail-in voting here, and state officials started mailing out ballots in mid-January.
[As of Monday, about one-third of the 200,000 people expected to vote had mailed in their ballots.]
North Dakota moved up its Presidential primary this year in a bid to win more attention for the state, which ranks 47th in population. There is evidence the move was successful -- North Dakota attracted visits this time from Mr. Dole, the Kansas Senator; his wife, Elizabeth Dole; Alan Keyes and, before he dropped out of the race, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. In 1992, when the primary was in June, neither Bill Clinton nor George Bush campaigned here.
The support for Mr. Dole here is grounded in farm-belt loyalty; he is often called "Dakota's third senator." One of North Dakota's bona fide senators, Kent Conrad, a Democrat, actually boasted in his 1994 re-election campaign that he had voted with Senator Dole more than half the time.
Farm politics are crucial in a state where a main attraction of the annual state fair is a grain combine demolition derby.
"I know where Dole stands on issues that concern me, and farm issues are big for me," said Steve Perkins, who raises wheat, barley and cattle on a farm in Menoken, 25 miles east of this state capital.
That sentiment is echoed by the state's Republican establishment, which is solidly in the Dole camp. On Wednesday, when the Senator made a campaign stop in Fargo, he was warmly welcomed by the Governor, the leaders of both houses of the State Legislature and a glowing editorial in The Forum of Fargo, the state's largest newspaper.
"His farm state roots in Kansas and his demonstrated understanding of agriculture give him an edge in North Dakota," The Forum said of Mr. Dole, who since January has campaigned in the state's four largest cities, Fargo, Bismarck, Grand Forks and Minot.
"Buchanan is a city kid," the editorial continued. "If he knows the difference between production agriculture and 'Green Acres,' he's yet to articulate it.
"Buchanan's protectionist trade ideas would cripple North Dakota's export-dependent farm economy," the newspaper concluded. "North Dakota is not Buchanan country."
With half of North Dakota's grain production going overseas, largely to Asian markets, state farmers are skittish that Mr. Buchanan might provoke reprisals from the state's trading partners.
"Someone who wants to shut down trade -- that's pretty scary for us in North Dakota," Edward T. Schafer, the Governor, said in an interview.
In a far cry from its early isolationist days, North Dakota boasts the nation's only international golf course -- it straddles the border with Saskatchewan. North Dakota license plates advertise the state's International Peace Garden, a floral park straddling the border with Manitoba.
Canada is North Dakota's largest trading partner. Last year, sales to Mexico roughly doubled.
"There's one candidate in this race who wants to build a wall around America; he doesn't think we need to sell anything overseas," Mr. Dole said at the campaign rally in Fargo, attended by about 1,000 people. "Well, if you raise three bushels of wheat, two better go overseas or somebody's going to be broke."
Nevertheless, there is an anti-Nafta undercurrent here that Mr. Buchanan may tap on Tuesday.
"Nafta has done absolutely nothing for us -- zilch," said one Buchanan supporter, a 49-year-old employee of an oil drilling company who was shopping at a mall here.
On the sixth floor of the white limestone State Capitol building, that refrain was picked up by Sarah Vogel, the state Agriculture Commissioner and a Democrat.
"It's virtually impossible to get American wheat into Canada; you can't get a quart of American milk into Canada," said the Commissioner, who fills an elected post. "North Dakota is the nation's number one grower of edible beans -- and they cut back our bean quota to Mexico."
But Ms. Vogel, a board member of the Non-Partisan League, argued that Nafta should be renegotiated, not abolished.
"If you quizzed Pat Buchanan on why North Dakotans oppose Nafta, he wouldn't have a clue," she said. "I don't think that Pat Buchanan has an agriculture policy."
In 1958, Non-Partisan League members abandoned a 40-year alliance with North Dakota's Republicans and joined with the Democrats. Although there has been speculation that members of the alliance, formally called the Democratic-NPL, would vote for Mr. Buchanan to sabotage Mr. Dole' candidacy, its leaders say they have not asked their followers to do that.
Mr. Buchanan's attacks on immigrants also have had little resonance among the prairie populists of North Dakota, a state that has slightly fewer inhabitants today than in 1920. The league movement drew heavily on farmers of Scandinavian and Russian-German origin.
"In North Dakota, the populist tradition was a helping hand," Ms. Vogel, the daughter of an N.P.L. founder, said. "They were immigrants themselves, and they thought that North Dakota was a land of opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Photo: North Dakota, which depends on grain exports, is leery of Patrick J. Buchanan's trade stand, said Gov. Edward T. Schafer, a Republican. (Jeffrey G. Olson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BISMARCK, ND, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GRAIN; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTION ISSUES PROTECTIONISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WHEAT FARMING (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); WORLD WAR I (56%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J ELIZABETH DOLE (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ED SCHAFER (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); PHIL GRAMM (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



691 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: STEVE FORBES;
The Flat-Tax Candidate Subordinates Himself to His Economic Message

BYLINE: By ERNEST TOLLERSON 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Feb. 26

 BODY:
At the end of his standard flat-tax stump speech to an attentive crowd of elderly residents here today, Steve Forbes touched lightly on what is becoming a common refrain: that his optimistic, Reaganesque message is far more important than the electoral fate of the messenger.
"I believe these issues and principles are bigger than any candidate, and that's why I'm in the race," the magazine publishing heir told the residents of the Forum Pueblo Norte Retirement Community here this afternoon. "I'm in the race for the duration." 
 Sometimes in passing and sometimes at great length, Mr. Forbes has been underscoring this rallying cry in a variety of venues lately as he tries to rejuvenate his Presidential candidacy. Buoyed by his victory in Saturday's door-prize primary in Delaware, where he and Alan Keyes were the only Republican Presidential candidates to court voters in person, Mr. Forbes is hoping to do well in Tuesday's Arizona primary. A strong showing in Arizona, he believes, would help reposition him as a credible challenger to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas; Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, and former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
His primacy-of-message theme popped up parenthetically in his remarks after he attended services on Sunday at All Saints Episcopal Church in Phoenix. On Saturday morning in Washington, he offered a friendly and enthusiastic crowd at a convention of the Conservative Political Action Committee an unabridged version of it.
Regardless of how he makes this point, Mr. Forbes is trumpeting a theme that has all the advantages of a reversible coat: it is suitable for fair political weather or foul. And with his back-to-back fourth-place finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire, Mr. Forbes has been enduring a lot of foul weather.
Mr. Forbes's emphasis on the importance of the flat tax and other ideas he champions has now eclipsed his 4-3-2-1 rallying cry on the stump in Iowa and New Hampshire: fourth in Iowa, third in New Hampshire, second in Delaware and first in Arizona. He has abandoned predicting exactly where he will finish in favor of a much more modest sound bite -- "a very strong showing."
Mr. Forbes, who so far has underwritten his candidacy with about $25 million of his own money, including several million dollars spent in Arizona, today reiterated his intention to go the distance and compete for delegates all the way to San Diego. He said he looked forward to competing in delegate-rich California in late March and New Jersey in June.
In Washington on Saturday morning, Mr. Forbes offered the conservative group's convention the unabridged version of primacy-of-ideas theme. "The experts said that a neophyte needed the kind of experience of the traditional kind, the long resume of political appointments and elected office in Washington," he said there. "They said that I remained an asterisk in this race, that the message couldn't get through the clutter. Well, the message is more powerful than the messenger. The message is more powerful than any candidate or campaign. The message is why I'm running today and why I have no intention of quitting this race."
Even some voters who are sympathetic to Mr. Forbes's candidacy see him more as a standard-bearer for pro-growth, limited-government ideas than as a viable Presidential candidate in 1996. Ben Seaborne, 76, a retired architect, fits neatly into that category. After listening to Mr. Forbes's speech today, he spoke up during the question-and-answer with Mr. Forbes. "Whether you win or not," Mr. Seaborne said, "this will be a great benefit for the country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (95%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); AGING (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (68%); WEATHER (63%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (56%); 

PERSON: TOLLERSON, ERNEST; FORBES, STEVE; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (79%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



692 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE POLL;
SOCIAL ISSUES GIVE BUCHANAN BOOST, A NEW POLL FINDS

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
Patrick J. Buchanan's views on social issues like abortion and immigration are attracting voters to his campaign more than his economic populism, a new New York Times/CBS News poll shows.
The poll, which was taken last Thursday through Saturday, showed that Mr. Buchanan had established himself nationally -- and not just in the early primary and caucus states where the candidates have spent most of their time -- as the main rival to Senator Bob Dole for the Republican Presidential nomination. But some issues that Mr. Buchanan has emphasized threaten to split the Republican coalition. 
 So far, many Republican primary voters are dissatisfied with what they have seen. Asked whether they were satisfied with the active candidates or would like someone else to enter the race, 50 percent said they would welcome a wider choice of candidates.
Although Mr. Buchanan, a conservative commentator and former White House speechwriter, has often been dismissed as a mere protest candidate, the poll indicates otherwise. Most of his backers appear to think they are voting for a potential winner, not just sending a message. More than two-thirds of the Republicans who support him, or 69 percent, think he could beat President Clinton in November, while only 35 percent of those backing Mr. Dole think Mr. Buchanan could beat Mr. Clinton.
In another demonstration of Mr. Buchanan's increasing credibility, 51 percent of Republican voters said that regardless of their own voting intentions, they thought he had the ability to be an effective President, compared with 78 percent who thought that Mr. Dole had that capacity and only 37 percent who thought that a third major contender, former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, had it.
Mr. Dole is still liked by Republican voters, despite his lackluster victory in Iowa and his loss in New Hampshire, with 41 percent saying their view of him was favorable, while only 20 percent said they viewed him unfavorably. But the Kansan is clearly having trouble connecting with the electorate. Only 30 percent of Republicans said he cared the most about the needs of ordinary voters, an astonishingly low number for a politician so long in the limelight.
Among all voters -- Republicans, Democrats and independents -- who took part in the poll, Mr. Dole has a much lower standing, with his favorable rating at only 23 percent. He loses a trial heat to Mr. Clinton, who is now widely considered the favorite for November, 54 percent to 36 percent.
Mr. Dole is preferred by 39 percent of Republican primary voters nationwide, compared with 25 percent for Mr. Buchanan and 12 percent for Mr. Alexander. Steve Forbes, the millionaire publisher, stood at 5 percent, but the poll was completed before his surprise victory in Delaware on Saturday.
Those standings represent a considerable change since last month, before the voting began. Since January, Mr. Dole has slipped from 43 percent as his rivals have become better known, Mr. Buchanan has more than tripled his support, Mr. Alexander has also gained and Mr. Forbes, who stood at 12 percent then, has fallen back as he stumbled to two fourth-place finishes.
Despite months of campaigning, Mr. Alexander remains relatively little known, with almost 70 percent of Republicans still unsure about him.
Mr. Forbes's problem jumps from the pages of the polling data. His heavy advertising and the media coverage that followed have made him much better known in just a few months, but three times as many Republicans (39 percent) view him unfavorably as have a favorable impression (11 percent).
The telephone poll of 1,223 adults nationwide, which has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, suggested that there were sharp limits to Mr. Buchanan's potential.
Republican voters are split in their appraisal of the pugnacious candidate, with 29 percent taking a favorable view, but 35 percent express an unfavorable view. Nearly half describe him as an extremist, and 48 percent say that he cannot win the general election.
Abortion is one of the issues, the poll shows, that most thoroughly disrupts the Republican coalition, with 24 percent favoring abortion on demand, 23 percent favoring outright abolition and 51 percent favoring availability with stricter limitations.
Among Buchanan supporters, 57 percent favor a Republican platform advocating abolition, but among Dole supporters, only 27 percent take that position, though Mr. Dole is also an abortion opponent, if not as outspoken as Mr. Buchanan.
No such sharp cleavage is apparent on economic issues, despite Mr. Buchanan's relentless hammering of international trade agreements and of big corporations as enemies of the American working man and woman. Republicans were asked, for example, whether they feared that an adult in their family would be out of work in the next year -- an index of economic anxiety.
Surprisingly, perhaps, in view of Mr. Buchanan's aggressiveness and Mr. Dole's defensiveness on such questions, 31 percent of all Republican voters said they thought there was a good chance they would be in that predicament, 30 percent of Buchanan backers said so, and 33 percent of Dole backers said so.
Economic anxiety there certainly is. Contrary to the historic pattern in this generally optimistic country, almost as many people (43 percent) said that the standard of living would fall in the next decade as said it would increase (44 percent). But the pessimists were not significantly more likely to be backers of Mr. Buchanan.
Mr. Buchanan has clearly hit a nerve with Republican voters when he argues that free trade costs American jobs, with 57 percent saying restrictions are needed to protect domestic industries.
After a campaign in which few candidates have said anything good about the government, an amazing number of people retain faith in its potential. No fewer than 87 percent said they thought that government can have a positive impact in people's lives.
The Republican "revolution" of 1994, meant to reform government, receives decidedly mixed reviews. Among those interviewed, 32 percent said they thought the changes that the Republicans in Congress were trying to make would be good for most people if they went through, 36 percent said they thought they would be bad and 22 percent said they thought they would have little or no effect.
By 49 percent to 31 percent, voters put the greatest share of blame on the Republicans in Congress, rather than President Clinton, for the budget standoff and the partial shutdowns of the Government that ensued.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 22 to 24 with 1,223 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of active residential exchanges in the country. The list of more than 36,000 residential exchanges is maintained by Marketing Systems Group of Philadelphia.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age, and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus five percentage points for those who say they are likely to vote in a Republican primary or caucus this year.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in question wording or the order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "How Republicans View Their Four Leading Candidates" shows results of a New York Times/CBS News poll regarding the 1996 Republican presidential candidates. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; APPLE, R W JR; DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



693 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON SEEKING WIDER SANCTIONS AGAINST CUBANS

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
Denouncing the downing of two private American planes by Cuba as "a flagrant violation of international law," President Clinton today suspended all air charter travel between the United States and the island and pledged to reach agreement with Congress on a pending bill to tighten economic sanctions.
Mr. Clinton also asked Congress to approve legislation to use several million dollars of the $100 million in frozen Cuban assets in this country to compensate the families of the four anti-Castro Cuban-Americans presumed killed when their Cessnas were wiped out of the sky by missiles on Saturday. 
 "Saturday's attack was an appalling reminder of the nature of the Cuban regime -- repressive, violent, scornful of international law," the President said in an afternoon appearance in the White House briefing room after a 75-minute meeting with his national security advisers.
But despite his sharp words, Mr. Clinton's response was measured, reflecting the limited options at his disposal and what senior Administration officials described as his belief that the best way to foster democratic reform in Cuba was to maintain the cultural, journalistic and humanitarian ties that the Administration sought to promote when it eased travel restrictions last October.
At the same time, Administration officials acknowledged that Cuba had been greatly exercised in recent weeks about flights by the anti-Castro group and that such flights had continued despite American warnings against them.
Last fall, the Administration moved to let more scholars and artists and family members wishing to visit sick relatives in Cuba do so. Under the new rules they still can, but only through third countries, officials said. As a result, the officials added, the number of travelers from the United States is expected to decline substantially, causing a significant short-term economic blow to Cuba.
But with the Florida presidential primary just two weeks away -- and with the vote-rich state looming as a crucial battleground in the general election -- Mr. Clinton's Republican political opponents promptly denounced the President's proposals as inadequate.
"It's a shame that President Clinton's weak actions today did not match his tough rhetoric," Senator Bob Dole of Kansas said in a statement. "I support these measures as steps in the right direction. But after months of moving the wrong way -- toward coddling Castro -- President Clinton has yet to understand that the only way to deal with Castro's tyranny is with real firmness and pressure."
Cuban-American exile groups had mixed reactions. Some, like Jorge Mas Canosa, the conservative head of the Cuban American National Foundation, called the incident "a turning point in U.S.-Cuba relations," and praised Mr. Clinton's willingness to work with Congress on tighter sanctions. But others said the Administration had allowed provocative flights by the exile group, Brothers to the Rescue, to continue despite repeated warnings from the Cuban Government.
A coalition of groups opposed to the existing embargo, headed by the Antonio Maceo Brigade and the Alliance of Workers of the Cuban Community, said in a statement, "We urge President Clinton not to approve inhumane measures which ultimately will only harm the welfare of the Cuban community in the United States and the Cuban people in the island and further erode constitutional rights such as the right to travel and free association."
For his part, Mr. Clinton vowed to "move promptly to reach agreement with the Congress" on pending legislation, sponsored by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative Dan Burton of Indiana, to tighten the American economic embargo against Cuba by requiring the United States to oppose Cuban membership in international financial institutions and further restrict sugar imports, among other things.
But moments later, top Administration officials said the White House remained firmly opposed to an element of the House-approved version of the bill that would allow American courts to hear lawsuits brought by Cuban refugees against foreign companies and individuals "trafficking" in property seized in Cuba when Mr. Castro took power 36 years ago.
The officials said that measure would create tension with European allies, would be hard to defend under international law and would impede efforts to settle existing financial claims. The provision was dropped from the Senate version of the bill, and House and Senate negotiators are now trying to reconcile the two versions.
Mr. Clinton had threatened to veto the House bill, but officials said he now hoped to foster a compromise.
The Administration is also seeking condemnation of the attack by the United Nations and is likely to seek international support for restrictions on Cuban civil aviation worldwide, officials said.
Officials said that 120,000 to 140,000 people travel from the United States to Cuba each year and that if travelers decided to forgo the added burden of traveling through a third country, it should reduce revenues to the Cuban Government significantly.
Senior Administration officials acknowledged that fliers from the anti-Castro group, Brothers to the Rescue, had apparently violated Cuban airspace in the past and that a third plane did so on Saturday before returning safely to Florida at the time the other two were downed. But they said the planes obviously had no hostile intent and were clearly unarmed.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, one official said that American intelligence reports showed that the Cuban military in recent weeks had practiced intercepting planes, and may have scrambled planes on Saturday in anticipation of some provocative flight by Brothers to the Rescue on that day, the 101st anniversary of the start of Cuba's war of independence against Spain.
"It's likely that we picked up some notion that there would be flights on that day," the official said.
In Miami, Jose Basulto, the founder of Brothers to the Rescue and the pilot of the plane that made it back safely on Saturday, said he thought a member of the group who disappeared last week, and has turned up in Havana, was a Cuban spy. Cuban officials refused to identify the pilot, but exile groups in Miami said he was Juan Pablo Roque, a former major in the Cuban Air Force who swam to the American naval base in Guantanamo and arrived in Miami two years ago. He appeared on Cuban television tonight and charged that the two main leaders of Brothers to the Rescue were longtime C.I.A. agents.
Cuba had warned the United States that it might shoot down the pilots if they entered Cuban territory. As recently as Jan. 15, Cuba said it would take "all necessary measures" to halt the flights.
Wayne Smith, who ran the United States interests section in Havana from 1979 to 1982, said in an interview that the United States was well aware that the group was intent on continuing its flights but did little to stop it.
"It seems that the U.S. Government had really taken very little in the way of appropriate action to prevent them from repeating this kind of thing," Mr. Smith said. "I'm sure the Brothers tried to provoke some kind of incident to impede any further improvement in U.S.-Cuban relations."
But Federal Aviation Administration officials said they had met with members of the group on several occasions in the last two years, told them to honor Cuba's sovereignty and urged them to be careful. The F.A.A. has moved to suspend Mr. Basulto's license and has a pending action against a second member of the group, officials said.
The downing of the two planes and today's response escalated tensions that had risen last week. On Thursday, Cuba accused the United States of organizing and financing a coalition of 131 dissident groups on the island. The State Department labeled the allegation "preposterous." Days earlier, the Administration condemned a wave of arrests of coalition leaders that Cuba had begun at mid-month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton denounced Cuba yesterday at White House. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Cuba showing area of its 12-mile territorial limit. (pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

ORGANIZATION: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES ; CUBAN-AMERICANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); AIRLINES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); REFUGEES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); BILL FOSTER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



694 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL;
Little Joy for Mahoney As St. John's Is Defeated

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY 

 BODY:
It wasn't much of a game, but then St. John's wasn't much of a team. In its 92-79 loss to Syracuse last night in Madison Square Garden, the Red Storm took poor care of the basketball, allowed the Orangemen too many transition baskets (one came on a four-on-none breakaway) and emerged with a final score much more respectable than its performance.
For Brian Mahoney, St. John's beleaguered coach, this may have been another step toward the unemployment line. His school has a glorious history of winning basketball, but this team is not contributing to it. 
 St. John's trailed by 20 points at the half, a season high, and by 26 early in the second half.
The statistics for its heralded sophomores were good -- 16 points and 16 rebounds for Felipe Lopez, who never left the game, and 26 points and 10 rebounds for Zendon Hamilton.
But Lopez often played playground basketball, forcing his shots, and his teammates seldom looked for him. And once, when his wild pass to Hamilton went out of bounds, Hamilton stared and stared at him.
Meanwhile, Syracuse was sharp in the first half and good enough in the second. John Wallace scored 30 points and Lazarus Sims, the 6-foot-4-inch point guard, had 17 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, the fifth triple-double in Big East history.
With that, Syracuse raised its record to 21-7 over all, 11-6 in the Big East. St. John's fell to 10-15, and its Big East record of 4-13 is the worst in the conference. Syracuse, ranked 14th and 15th in the nation in the two major weekly polls, was a 5 1/2-point favorite.
The crowd, announced at 14,121, was unhappy with St. John's performance. One group of spectators held up placards spelling, "Mahoney Must Go!" At halftime, when cheerleaders tossed tubes containing St. John's T-shirts into the stands, many were thrown back.
"The signs are not right," said Maurice Brown, St. John's 5-9 point guard. "But throwing the shirts back, that's comedy. I don't blame them. You don't want to wear something from a losing team."
This is Mahoney's fourth season as the St. John's coach. After a 19-10 debut, his next two teams finished 12-17 and 14-14. Even if his teams win, he cannot win comparisons with such St. John's predecessors as Joe Lapchick (334-130) and Lou Carnesecca (526-200). In 20 years, Lapchick had one losing season. In 24 years, Carnesecca, whom Mahoney replaced, had none.
Mahoney's players know he is on the hot seat. "We still got to play the game," Lopez said. "If we stop playing, it might be worse."
Mahoney was asked how he felt about his job security.
"I don't have the answer for that," he said. "It's not in my hands. To tell you the truth, it's not easy. We're trying to find a way through it and work with these kids. We're doing the best we can."
The names mentioned as a possible successor include Tom Penders of Texas, who once coached at Fordham, Fran Fraschilla of Manhattan and P. J. Carlesimo of the Portland Trail Blazers, who previously coached at Seton Hall.
But Penders is said to have alienated St. John's officials in the past and Fraschilla is said to be hoping for a more lucrative coaching job. And while Carlesimo has been having disciplinary trouble with some of his pro players, a former college coaching associate says Carlesimo likes the freedom of a pro job. As this coach, who spoke not for attribution, said:
"P. J. told me, 'We practice, not too hard, and then they go home. And that's it. No recruiting. No baby-sitting. It beats college.' "
 
REBOUNDS
St. John's, which has had so many setbacks this season, had two more. A magnetic resonance imaging test yesterday showed that ROWAN BARRETT, who hurt his left foot 11 days before in a game against Rutgers, has a stress fracture. DEREK BROWN, who replaced him as the starting off guard, broke his right foot Saturday against West Virginia. Their replacement against Syracuse was TARIK TURNER, who survived the night.
The Syracuse-St. John's game was the second game of a doubleheader. In the opener, Hofstra (9-17 over all, 5-13 North Atlantic Conference) beat Hartford (5-21, 5-13) by 83-77.
ANTHONY DAVIS, Hofstra's freshman guard, scored 27 points, had 3 assists and made 3 steals.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Wallace, left, who scored 30 points for Syracuse, teaming with Otis Hill in an attempt to stop St. John's Zendon Hamilton. (pg. B9); Coach Brian Mahoney during St. John's loss to Syracuse last night. The Red Storm fell to 4-13 in the Big East. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) (pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (NYC) MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (96%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (96%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (95%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (NYC) ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (96%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (96%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (95%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (77%); 

PERSON: LITSKY, FRANK JOHN WALLACE (96%); SYRACUSE-ST JOHN (90%); BRIAN MAHONEY (90%); FELIPE LOPEZ (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



695 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Where the Loss of Jobs Means Growing Anger

SERIES: An American Place: Downsizing at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: NORTH CANTON, Ohio, Feb. 26

 BODY:
In August 1994, Lucy Smith, a secretary for Citizens Savings Bank, a very profitable locally owned bank, attended a company meeting to learn what would happen to her job now that Citizens was being sold to a larger national bank.
"The speakers were very upbeat," Mrs. Smith said. The headlines the next day in the local papers reflected that. "Takeover Not Expected To Be Traumatic for Citizens Savings," one read. 
 But it has been traumatic for the 54-year-old Mrs. Smith, who has been out of work eight months and now says: "We may have to sell our home. We're just trying to hold on to what we have."
Mrs. Smith and her husband, Jerry, both longtime Republicans, live in the pleasant middle-to-upper-middle-class suburb of North Canton. The downsizing has been the most humiliating experience of Mrs. Smith's life, she said, and she surely will take it into consideration when she votes.
Here in Stark County, in northeastern Ohio, where politics and the economy mirror national trends, the unemployment rate is several points lower than in 1992, the last Presidential election year. Several employers are posting record profits. Still, most major companies in the region have undergone some downsizing since the early 1990's, including The Timken Company, Republic Engineered Steels and The Hoover Company.
It makes for an uneasiness, an anger, that might not show up in statistics.
Mrs. Smith has always taken great pride in her secretarial skills, having graduated as the top secretarial student in the class of 1959 at Timken High School and then going straight to the secretarial pool at Hoover.
She types 70 words per minute ("80 on a computer, but everybody's faster on a computer"), takes shorthand and knows several computer programs including WordPerfect 5.1 ("that's capital W, capital P, no space") and DisplayWrite 4 ("capital D, capital W, no space").
She volunteers as secretary for the vestry at her church, St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal. After the last meeting, the priest said it was not necessary to take so many notes, but Mrs. Smith explained that she liked to get everything, then whittle it.
Mrs. Smith's last job before going to work for the bank was at Dyer Technology in Hudson, N. H., where she made $8.50 an hour. Her supervisor there, Linda Shattuck said: "Lucy kept us all organized. She was calm when the rest of us were in a dither."
In 1990, after having worked for several companies in the East, (Mr. Smith was in the Navy 20 years), the Smiths returned to Canton, and soon after Mrs. Smith took a job in the data-processing division of Citizens Savings, founded in Canton in 1899.
Mrs. Smith worked for five vice presidents in the division ("very nice people"). She admired the division president, Tom Tuersley. ("A very nice man. We'd call him Tom unless there was a visitor in the office, then it was Mr. Tuersley.")
In 1993 Citizens, which employed about 350 people, had its most profitable year ever.
The sale of Citizens to FirstMerit Corporation, a holding company with seven banks in Ohio and Florida and $5.7 billion in assets, was announced on Aug. 10, 1994. A local financial analyst explained the sale this way: Citizens' directors were aging and wanted to raise the price of the stock, which had not been widely traded, so they could take their profits.
Fifteen years ago, there were six locally owned banks in Canton; now there is one.
FirstMerit officials said it was hard to pinpoint how many from Citizens had lost jobs because there had been a corporationwide reorganization and many workers had been shifted around. Dixie Vinez, a FirstMerit spokeswoman, said the Citizens acquisition had led to a companywide drop in the number of workers, to 2,800 from 3,200.
The data-processing division was split off and offered for sale. In December 1994, the division president, Mr. Tuersley, called a staff meeting. "He told us they might not be able to find a buyer, and we better start looking for jobs," Mrs. Smith said. "I never had any doubt he regretted what was happening."
Three weeks later, Mr. Tuersley called another meeting to say there was a buyer that would take control in six months. It was a smaller company from Akron, and parties familiar with the sale said it could not afford to offer the benefits that Citizens had.
Over the next six months, a steady stream of employees quit. Two assistant vice presidents Mrs. Smith worked for, Tom Haswell and Bob Blackburn, left for Diebold. "Their offices just stayed empty," she said.
Mrs. Smith was asked to take on the receptionist's job in addition to her own. "It was hard to do your secretarial work properly and answering the phone all day," she said.
She was offered a job at the division's new home in Akron. "The benefits were not as good, plus I had to drive 28 extra miles each way to Akron," she said. "I'd be losing money all the way around."
In July 1995, when Mr. Tuersley and those remaining relocated to Akron, Mrs. Smith resigned. Though no one had been laid off, the data-processing division had shrunk to 40 workers from 70. The other day Mrs. Smith heard that Mr. Tuersley himself had recently left the new company. (Neither he nor a spokesman for the company, Casnet, would comment on his departure.)
She did not think that finding a job would be hard. There were lots of want ads for secretaries. "But when I checked," she said, "I found most were temporary agencies."
Victor Valli, a consultant for the local Job Training Partnership agency, said that with all the downsizing, there was a surplus of secretaries.
Mrs. Smith took a civil service test for a library worker position in the Canton schools, scored third out of 96 but got just one call and no job. She had an offer at a medical clinic at $5.25 an hour. "I turned it down," she said. "I didn't think I should take a step backward in salary. Maybe I was wrong."
Mrs. Smith said she believed that her age was against her, and she is angry. A column on the editorial page of the local paper, The Repository, caught her eye recently. "It was by a black gentleman," she said. "He was writing about corporate greed, about how all that counts now is profit, Wall Street, the shareholders. I thought, he's reading my mind. It's like I'm not a person. I'm a commodity, someone they can plug in to make some money."
Mrs. Smith added, "There wasn't anything wrong with Citizens, a strong, healthy, locally owned bank. It's hard to justify what they did."
Mrs. Smith is not political. "Mostly I just get the splash that hits me from the radio or the paper," she said. Still, she always votes, and has voted Republican for President for 20 years.
Going through downsizing changes you, she said. "Prior to this," she said, "I was adamant on the welfare issue. I would have sided with the freshman Republicans -- get them off the roles. But applying for unemployment was the most humiliating experience I ever had. Most people I met there are like me, not poor people in raggedy clothes."
She said that she would vote in the Republican primary but that she did not know for whom. Senator Bob Dole has not grabbed her, and she started to get interested in Steve Forbes just as the newspapers stopped writing about him. Until the New Hampshire primary, she thought that Patrick J. Buchanan's only issue was opposition to abortion. While she agreed with that, and in the last few days has heard that Mr. Buchanan has some of the same economic concerns she does, he seems harsh to her.
The latest statewide poll done by the University of Cincinnati in the days after the New Hampshire primary showed Mr. Dole ahead of Mr. Buchanan 42 percent to 19 percent.
Mrs. Smith said she did not trust President Clinton's character or his position on abortion but respected him more lately for taking a stand against Congress. She said she could vote for him, though she would rather not.
What Mrs. Smith spends most of her time thinking about these days is finding a decent job and rearing her 11-year-old daughter and 15-year-old son. And keeping her house. The Smiths paid $90,000 for the three-bedroom tri-level five years ago. From her kitchen, she can see the geese and ducks on Nimishillen Creek at the edge of her yard.
"I'm worried sick," she said. "I have so much I just want to keep."
As she sat in her dining room the other afternoon, Mr. Smith rushed in from his day job, driving a delivery truck for a restaurant supply company, and hurried upstairs to change.
He used to make $38,000 a year for an environmental cleanup firm but was laid off a little more than four years ago. He sent out 80 resumes and got nothing. "His age is against him," Mrs. Smith said.
Mr. Smith is 56. A human-resources counselor suggested that he dye his gray hair; he did, but then stopped because it embarrassed him. Four years ago, he found the delivery job through a neighbor, and he has worked his way up to $7.25 an hour.
A half-hour after rushing in, Mr. Smith had changed into a dress shirt and tie and rushed back out to his job, preparing tax forms at H&R Block. It pays $5.20 an hour. During tax season he can sometimes get 30 or 40 hours a week working nights and weekends.
That night, when Mrs. Smith went to bed at 11:15, Mr. Smith was still not home from H&R Block, and she fretted because she knew he had to be up at 4 A.M. for his delivery route.
 
About the Series
 
Throughout the Presidential election year, articles in this series will examine Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County, a political bellwether for decades.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In northeast Ohio, where most major companies have undergone cutbacks, Jerry and Lucy Smith ate dinner with their children, David and Heidi, at home in North Canton. Mrs. Smith worries about losing their house, and says that her employer's downsizing has been her most humiliating experience. (Scott Heckle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (83%); 0669 (HKSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (83%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3635 HOUSEHOLD VACUUM CLEANERS (67%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS SAVINGS BANK (93%); TIMKEN CO (83%); TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES CO LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STARK COUNTY (OHIO); NORTH CANTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES LAYOFFS (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL LUCY SMITH (96%); TOM TUERSLEY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



696 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: PATRICK J. BUCHANAN;
Big Tent Is Shrinking For Grand Old Populist

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TOMBSTONE, Ariz., Feb. 26

 BODY:
Patrick J. Buchanan has progressed in the last three weeks from a long-shot candidate for the Republican nomination to the instrument of a conservative cause, then to the champion of a new political movement named for himself.
Although Mr. Buchanan continues to reject the idea of running as an independent candidate for President if he fails to win the Republican nomination, he increasingly talks about the Republican Party as though he were not a member of it. 
 Asked in an interview on Friday night whether he might form a third party, Mr. Buchanan said, "The Republican Party is so bullheaded and hostile to those of us who to try to get close to the party -- if the party insults our people enough times, by insulting me, they're going to make it impossible to bring us home."
Going far beyond other self-styled Washington outsiders, like Ross Perot and Steve Forbes, Mr. Buchanan has sharpened his language and broadened his attacks to tap into public resentment not only of Congress, the White House and the Federal bureaucracy, but also of a number of large institutions like major corporations, unions and the political party he wants to represent.
"The Pat Buchanan movement," as the candidate began to refer to his campaign last week, is grounded in two themes: opposition to abortion and profound grievances against, or alienation from, established institutions and their leaders.
"Listen, we don't get the boys at Bal Harbour," Mr. Buchanan said in Tucson, Ariz., on Thursday, mocking John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., who had criticized him at the labor federation's annual policy-making convention in Bal Harbour, Fla. "We are getting the working men and women of America."
He added: "Senator Dole represents the board room, or the business round table. And some of these other fellows, like Mr. Clinton, they represent the hierarchy of big labor. We represent the working men and women."
With more voters disapproving of Mr. Buchanan nationally than approving of him, his opponents and other political analysts say they are convinced that he cannot win the Republican nomination.
His on-the-cheap campaign is still operating without a pollster, and Mr. Buchanan can seem oddly oblivious to the news coverage he is receiving. "That's outstanding," he declared, informed two days after the fact that The Wall Street Journal had published a front-page article last Thursday describing "Buchanomics." "I've got to get this stuff. This is scrapbook material."
Mr. Buchanan said he believed that since he won the Louisiana caucuses over Senator Phil Gramm of Texas nearly three weeks ago, his social and economic issues could carry him to victories in Arizona and South Carolina and ultimately to the nomination. "It has clearly settled in that we could win it," he said.
Mr. Buchanan now spends more time attacking big business than almost anything else, except perhaps his own party.
"You can't cut trade deals that sell out working people for the benefit of big corporations in New York that got no loyalty to America, no loyalty to you and me and no loyalty to any of us," Mr. Buchanan said at a forum for United We Stand America, the Ross Perot group, in Sun City, Ariz., on Sunday.
Mr. Buchanan's chief complaint against the Republican Party -- as against Washington in general -- is that it is beholden to large corporations. "They revel in these reputations as Chainsaw-this and Pitbull-that," Mr. Buchanan said, speaking of corporate executives, in the interview. "What are we doing praising these people and celebrating them?"
These days he is reveling in his own dark reputation. When he donned a black cowboy hat last week for a parade in Tucson, he was asked whether he would prefer a gray one. "No," Mr. Buchanan replied. "I'm the bad guy."
His frequent predictions that the party's establishment would unite against him, which seemed a bit presumptuous when he lagged far back in the polls, are coming true.
That is why, while they have publicly sounded hurt over attacks by party luminaries like Gen. Colin L. Powell and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, Mr. Buchanan and his aides are privately delighted. "Please, Newt, hit us," said Mr. Buchanan's communications secretary, Gregory R. Mueller, referring to Speaker Newt Gingrich.
Any such attack reinforces Mr. Buchanan's image as an obstreperous outsider, a man who "says what he means and means what he says," a slogan that is turning up on banners and hats at Buchanan rallies.
Today, Mr. Buchanan leaped at another opportunity to cast himself as an embattled maverick. He derided Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the general chairman of the Democratic Party, who on Sunday compared Buchanan supporters with skinheads.
"That is elitism of the worst kind to slander our people," Mr. Buchanan said. "They ought not to be slandered and called names simply because they believe that they ought to have a voice and a representative in Washington."
That posture of unbending principle has helped draw to Mr. Buchanan people who disagree with some of his major positions. Carol Deane, who recently heard Mr. Buchanan speak in Nashua, N.H., said that she used to think he was "some kind of wacko" and that she disagreed with his plan to outlaw abortion. But she added, "I like that he stands up for what he believes."
Mrs. Deane said that her husband was working two jobs and that she was working six days a week cleaning houses. "My parents were able to buy a brand-new house on my father's salary, and he worked at a job that didn't even require a high school degree," she said. "Something's gone wrong."
That is why, she said, she was supporting Mr. Buchanan. "I don't think the so-called elites, I don't think they understand what working people are going through," Mrs. Deane said. Asked who the elites were, she named "international businessmen, career politicians, bankers."
Mr. Buchanan, a Chardonnay sipper who seems more at home in dark business suits than in the windbreakers and bolo ties he has been experimenting with recently, might seem an unlikely populist. But he has always deeply admired politicians who he believed connected with working people. President Ronald Reagan, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin, Gen. Douglas MacArthur and Francisco Franco, the Spanish dictator, were among his father's heroes.
"So many working-class people loved Joe," Mr. Buchanan wrote in his memoir, "Right from the Beginning," referring to McCarthy, the flamboyant Republican Red-hunter whose name became synonymous with an era of suspicion and investigative excess in the early 1950's. "Tail Gunner Joe was a populist."
But there is a further wrinkle to Mr. Buchanan's anti-corporate stance. He connects his antagonism to big corporations to his fears that a "new world order" is undermining American independence.
"They have become their own global institutions," Mr. Buchanan said in the interview. "You hear these executives, they talk that way. They don't care about competitiveness. They speak in this global language as though they're above government, above nation."
As he taps into the grievances of people across the country, Mr. Buchanan appears to be working through some of his own grievances, against not only the people he calls "the party elders" but also against members of the press whom he considers liberal and even hostile.
As the returns came in from the New Hampshire primary last Tuesday, Mr. Buchanan was watching CBS News when Dan Rather, the network's anchor, declared him the winner. As Mr. Rather began describing him, Mr. Buchanan, evidently recalling past slights, shouted jubilantly at the screen, "And youthful admirer of Joseph McCarthy!" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEN (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



697 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Super-Counterfeit $100's Baffle U.S.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and STEPHEN ENGELBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26

 BODY:
During the last six years, counterfeiters in the Middle East have turned out millions of dollars in exceptionally high-quality $100 bills, defying intense American efforts to find and halt their operation, senior American officials say.
Aided by the Central Intelligence Agency, teams of Secret Service agents have crisscrossed the Middle East, recruiting informants and collecting samples of the fake currency, said to be the most realistic counterfeit ever made. 
 Several Administration officials said the inquiry had turned up hints of sponsorship by foreign governments, including suspicions that Iran might be printing the bills and Syria sanctioning their distribution. There also are signs that some of the bills have been used by people with ties to terrorist organizations, the officials said.
But senior officials acknowledged in interviews that it remained unclear precisely where the currency, known as the Superdollar or Supernote, was being produced, or by whom.
And though the Secret Service has confiscated up to $10 million of the fake notes, the officials said, the United States lacks enough evidence to make public accusations against any government or terrorist group.
Indeed, a new report by the General Accounting Office, to be released on Tuesday, says that the problems combating the Superdollar show how vulnerable the United States is to counterfeiting. Nearly two-thirds of the $380 billion in American currency circulates overseas, and substantial counterfeiting could undermine foreigners' confidence in the dollar as the world's safest investment haven.
The threat from the Superdollar has been an impetus to a sweeping redesign of American currency, starting with a $100 bill to be released next month that will incorporate several new anti-counterfeiting measures that could foil most criminals. But when the Government introduces new currency, it does not recall existing bills, and it could take several years for the older notes to disappear from the market.
Treasury officials say some of the fears about the Superdollar have been overblown, and they insist that the Superdollars are only a minuscule fraction of the $100 bills in circulation. They also said they had learned how to spot the slight flaws in several variations of the notes, making the officials more confident that they can keep the problem under control.
Some officials said the Secret Service had disputed a C.I.A. estimate that $1 billion of the notes had been printed. But the G.A.O contends that the Secret Service's methods for making its own projections are inadequte. Other estimates by law enforcement officials range from tens of millions to hundreds of millions of dollars worth of the fake notes.
Administration officials and members of Congress said their biggest concern was that Superdollars could be the handiwork of a hostile country trying to prop up its own economy or interfere with that of the United States.
The matter is considered so critical that when President Clinton met President Hafez al-Assad of Syria in Geneva in January 1994 he asked Mr. Assad for intelligence information that might unmask the counterfeiters. A senior American official said that Mr. Assad said he was "prepared to help."
Secretary of State Warren Christopher renewed the request last May, and American investigators have since traveled to Syria to investigate reports about proliferation of the currency in Lebanon, where the Syrians wield considerable influence. Little of value has emerged from those talks, officials said.
"We've had conversations with a lot of the countries in the region, including the Syrians," said one senior Administration official. "We've never accused them of this. Frankly, we don't know."
Representative James A. Leach, a Republican from Iowa who is chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Financial Services and has been briefed on the inquiry, said the Supernotes were "a very serious problem."
"These do not appear to be notes that emanate from traditional organized crime elements," Mr. Leach said. "My view is that is likely there is governmental involvement in these Supernotes, partly based on the fact that they're so good."
The difficulty in stemming the flow of Superdollars also illustrates the far-reaching changes that the rise of the global economy and the fall of Communism have brought to American law enforcement.
Counterfeiting was once primarily a domestic crime, perpetrated against Americans by Americans. Today, the pursuit of phony bills often touches on diplomacy, intelligence operations and elusive efforts to recruit informants from other countries.
The G.A.O. report, and interviews with Congressmen and Administration officials, also suggest that the slow progress in cracking in the case stems from the Treasury Department's failure to station enough Secret Service agents overseas and from tensions between the Secret Service and the C.I.A.
The G.A.O. says the Secret Service has about 2,000 agents in the United States. But until recently it had fewer than 20 permanent agents abroad, even though Congress had authorized $5 million in 1994 for it to expand its overseas presence.
The G.A.O. report said that sending extra agents overseas had been delayed by disagreement at the Treasury over how broad their responsibilities should be and problems at the State Department in finding room for them at some embassies. The Treasury said it had recently filled 12 of an additional 28 overseas positions.
Spencer T. Backus 3d, a Republican from Alabama and the chairman of a House Banking subcommittee that plans to release the G.A.O. report at a hearing on Tuesday, said the study showed that "we don't have the resources in the field to gauge the problem or stop it."
Investigators said they had come across their first Superdollar, which the Secret Service officially refers to as counterfeit series 14342, in 1990.
They said the fake notes had initially appeared in the Bekaa Valley of Lebanon when Muslim and Christian forces were fighting there in the early 1990's. But several new versions of the notes have appeared since, and they have spread as far as Hong Kong and Moscow.
One remarkable feature of the notes is they were printed on intaglio presses, which imprint bills from etched plants with substantial force.
Most counterfeits are printed on offset presses, which produce flat sheets. But the huge intaglio machines are used by the United States and other large governments, including Iran, that print their own currency, and smaller versions are commercially available.
Officials say the Superdollars are made with rag cotton paper, as is real United States currency. They also contain tiny red and blue fibers and an embedded plastic strip, an anti-counterfeiting feature that was added to real dollars in 1990.
The officials said the counterfeiters seemed to have been highly disciplined, appearing to have recognized that flooding the market with too many fake bills might be counterproductive and drive down their value.
Some of the bills have been used to buy legitimate goods, from fuel oil to machinery. One official speculated that if Iran is printing them, it might be doing so as "a nice way to supplement its budget." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: SECRET SERVICE (81%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA; IRAN; MIDDLE EAST; UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; COUNTERFEITING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DESIGN; TERRORISM COUNTERFEITING (94%); CURRENCIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); 

PERSON: DREW, CHRISTOPHER; ENGELBERG, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



698 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Teledyne Raises Bid for WHX and Hints at New Proxy Battle

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The WHX Corporation has increased its pressure for a merger with Teledyne Inc., raising its offer to $32 a share, or a total of $1.78 billion, from $30 a share, or $1.67 billion.
Officials of WHX also broadly hinted that they would wage another proxy fight for control of Teledyne at the annual meeting in April. Such an effort last year gained Ronald LaBow, chairman of WHX, a seat on Teledyne's board. 
 Teledyne, a producer of aviation electronics and specialty metals based in Los Angeles, responded to the improved offer by issuing a statement saying the board would "consider the new proposal." The company said it would send proxy material to shareholders shortly and "comment on all relevant issues in due course."
The price of Teledyne's shares increased 62.5 cents yesterday, to 27.875, after the new offer was announced. WHX shares rose 12.5 cents to close at $11.625.
In the new offer, the cash portion of the bid for Teledyne is sweetened by $2 a share, to $22, with the rest of the payment in WHX stock. WHX's principal asset is the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Company; its corporate headquarters, however, are in New York.
In a letter yesterday to William P. Rutledge, Teledyne's chairman, Mr. LaBow indicated that WHX had submitted a list of candidates for election to the Teledyne board.
He added, "Hopefully we can move forward promptly toward consummating this business so that another proxy contest can be avoided."
A spokesman for WHX said most of the candidates were current members of the WHX board.
Teledyne has not responded in detail to WHX's renewed merger effort, which began with the offer of $30 a share on Feb. 9, but clearly does not welcome it. Last week it hired Goldman, Sachs & Company to help evaluate the WHX bid and to assist it in a proxy fight, if one develops.
Also last week, the company sent a letter to shareholders contending that the WHX offer had spoiled a planned offering of $400 million in debt, because the action prompted rating agencies to put Teledyne's credit standing under review.
"Goldman, Sachs has advised the company that despite the generally favorable current interest-rate environment, it is not advisable to proceed with the debt offering in light of the uncertainty created by the WHX proposal," the letter said. "This delay may prove very costly to the company."
The electronics company also said that WHX had sold two million Teledyne shares in September, taking a profit of $14 million, while it "was ostensibly and publicly pursuing its goal of acquiring Teledyne."
Chuck Burgess, a spokesman for WHX, confirmed that the sales had occurred. He said the company's current stake in Teledyne was 175,000 shares, or about three-tenths of 1 percent of the total.
Teledyne also said WHX had not provided it with business plans and financial projections. The information is important, Teledyne said, because a major portion of the offer is in WHX stock.
Mr. Burgess replied, "We have provided everything they requested."
Analysts have said that WHX's main interest in Teledyne, whose financial performance has been weak recently, is its pension funds, which are overfinanced. If it gained control of Teledyne, it could use the funds to meet its own pension obligations and could sell all but the specialty-metals division to raise cash.
WHX has been trying to merge with Teledyne since late in 1994. After rebuffing WHX's early advances, Teledyne put itself up for sale last year, but later reversed course, saying that operating the company was the best way to increase its value. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A headline in Business Day yesterday about the WHX Corporation's takeover bid for Teledyne Inc. misstated the action taken on Monday. As the article noted, WHX raised its bid for Teledyne and hinted at a proxy fight for control of the company; Teledyne is not bidding for WHX.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNH (NASDAQ) (93%); ATI (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (93%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (91%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TELEDYNE INC; WHX CORP HANDY & HARMAN LTD (93%); ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SEVERSTAL WHEELING HOLDING CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEDYNE INC; WHX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); DEBT FINANCING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN WILLIAM P RUTLEDGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



699 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: BOB DOLE;
With Dole Campaign Off Track, He Puts 2 Advisers Off the Team

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: MACON, Ga., Feb. 26

 BODY:
In a stark acknowledgment that his campaign has gone awry and that he has offered an inconsistent message, Senator Bob Dole said today that he had dismissed his campaign pollster and demoted his deputy chairman, just as the campaign is heading into a make-or-break period.
Mr. Dole joked to reporters today that his message had changed so often, it could be considered the "flavor of the week." 
 The moves reflect the turmoil that has beset the Dole campaign since the onetime presumptive nominee eked out a razor-thin victory in Iowa. He lost the New Hampshire primary a week ago, lost again in Delaware over the weekend and could lose in Arizona on Tuesday. "I don't like coming in second," he said today.
Advisers within and close to the campaign said the changes exposed both a candidate who does not know what he wants to say and a campaign staff split by internal power struggles and still arguing over whether negative campaign commercials were the best way for Mr. Dole to make his case.
"Dole has been tentative, cautious and uncertain," said one adviser close to the campaign, "and that's a product of advisers arguing about what he should say."
The immediate result of the changes, some of these advisers predicted, would be fewer negative commercials against Mr. Dole's opponents and perhaps more bold, defining speeches, like the one he gave last year denouncing excessive violence and sex in popular culture.
Mr. Dole, talking to reporters while campaigning today in Marietta, Ga., said that his television commercials had been "a little negative" and that his polls had been "a little too rosy." The staff changes will rectify both problems, he said.
But several people who are either involved in the campaign or close to it differed with Mr. Dole's assessment of his problems.
They said the campaign was split between those who believed in polling and conducting focus groups before setting the campaign course and those who believed it was better to go on instinct and make bold moves, like giving defining speeches.
Despite the internal debate, Mr. Dole continued to attribute his deepest problems to the barrage of negative advertising against him by Steve Forbes -- not to any inherent weakness in himself as a candidate or in his overall message, which still appears to be evolving.
He said Mr. Forbes's ads against him had done so much damage that when voters see one of Mr. Dole's own commercials, "they go, 'Uh oh, here's Bob Dole.' "
"Sooner or later, we've got to get out of these states where he's spent a ton of money," Mr. Dole said. He predicted that South Carolina, which votes on Saturday, would be the last such state.
"If he starts spending more, I don't know what to do," Mr. Dole said, "because sooner or later, we'll be out of money. He'll be out of money later than we are."
Mr. Forbes, who is not requesting Federal matching funds and therefore faces no Federal spending limits, is financing his campaign mainly from his personal fortune. Mr. Dole, who accepts Federal matching money and is bound by spending limits, is quickly approaching the $37 million limit set for the primary.
In the weekend shake-up, it was ultimately the polling proponents who lost the debate. Bill McInturff, a respected Republican pollster with Public Opinion Strategies, was dismissed outright, and William B. Lacy, the deputy campaign chairman who worked for Mr. Dole in 1988, was demoted, then quit rather than accept less responsibility.
Mr. McInturff disputed Mr. Dole's contention that his poll numbers had been too optimistic. He predicted that Mr. Dole would win 26 to 28 percent of the vote in New Hampshire, and he won 27 percent, and that he would win 27 percent in Delaware, which is what he won, Mr. McInturff said.
Mr. Lacy had been in charge of strategy and advertising; Don Sipple, a consultant who joined the campaign last year after his previous boss, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, dropped out, will assume those duties.
Tony Fabrizio, who had been polling along with Mr. McInturff, is to assume full polling responsibilities. And Fred P. Steeper, a Michigan-based pollster and consultant who worked for President George Bush, will provide strategic advice.
Other staples of the Dole team who appear secure for now are Scott Reed, the campaign manager, Mari Maseng Will, the communications director, and Nelson Warfield, the press secretary. Stuart Stevens, who has been making Mr. Dole's commercials, also remains in place. Those familiar with the campaign's internal workings said the staff changes were symptoms of deeper problems in the campaign.
"There has been a lot of debate over the message," one of those sources said, "over our inability to stay on message, the negative ads and the rapid expenditure of money last year, which has the campaign in a pretty serious situation. And the Senator was frustrated."
Similar tumult hit the failing Dole campaign in 1988 when internal rivalries erupted. The campaign manager then, William E. Brock, suddenly dismissed two top consultants, David Keene and Donald J. Devine. Mr. Brock ordered, "Get their baggage off the plane," and they were left at the Jacksonville, Fla., airport. No one suggests that Mr. Dole's campaign this year is in such dire straits.
Mr. Dole said his message was already stronger, but at a McDonnell Douglas plant here today, he did not try to make the case for his candidacy. Instead, he reminded the 200 workers that the primary was coming up and said, "I'll just let you make the judgment."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday outlining the economies and politics of Arizona, North Dakota and South Dakota, the three states that were about to hold Presidential primaries, gave an incorrect figure in some editions for the percentage of Arizona's population that is Hispanic. It is 18.8.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, above, appeared at the Cobb Galleria Center in Marietta, Ga., yesterday while Patrick J. Buchanan spoke in Casa Grande, Ariz., as an unidentified Secret Service agent watched at left. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: "The States That Vote Today" shows various statistics about the three states holding Republican presidential primaries today and how thay compare to the nation as a whole. (Source: Cemsus Bireau; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Congressional Quarterly)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MACON, GA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MACON, GA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; LACEY, WILLIAM B; MCINTURFF, BILL BOB DOLE (97%); BILL MCINTURFF (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996



700 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: To Privatize Faster, Try a U.S. Yard Sale

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your Feb. 23 front-page article on increased risk to Federal loan programs as a result of less oversight: The era of big government may be over, but the transition will not be smooth. For example, the Small Business Administration's description of itself as "a model for how the Administration has reinvented Government by slimming the agency in partnership with the private sector" is paradoxical. 
 I have contracted with the agency to market its defaulted collateral real estate portfolio on the information highway. The good news is that I found a buyer for this $100 million portfolio. The bad news is that to get the appraisals of the properties to enhance marketability, I have to file a Freedom of Information Act request.
The notion that there is a partnership with the private sector is off the mark. The Small Business Administration and other agencies pay lip service indicating a willingness to reduce their liabilities, but are so entrenched in their old methods it takes crowbars and sledgehammers to get basic information to assist these agencies in liquidating assets.
The budget battles have reached absurd levels. The tragedy is that the Government hasn't aggressively sold assets to raise revenues and has cut staff in the name of economizing. A more productive approach is to modernize marketing and conduct an American "yard sale." That kind of downsizing will produce laudable results.
 
STEVEN A. LUDSIN
New York, Feb. 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; FEDERAL AID (US); CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (70%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (70%); 

PERSON: LUDSEN, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



701 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
J-a-p-a-n and C-h-i-n-a

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
With the Soviet threat now gone, and U.S. soldiers increasingly unpopular in Japan because of rape incidents in Okinawa, a lot of people are wondering how long the U.S.-Japan security alliance will hold and how long the U.S. will be able to station 47,000 troops here. Well, stop worrying. While the question is a legitimate one, the answer is obvious -- even though neither U.S. nor Japanese officials want to utter it aloud. So let me just whisper it here: What will keep the U.S. and Japan together in the coming decade is C-h-i-n-a.
The U.S.-Japan security treaty used to be based on protecting Japan primarily from the distant threat from Moscow. But with the rise of an increasingly powerful and assertive China, and with the spread of Japanese investments all over Asia, Japan now has a much greater threat close to home and much greater regional economic interests to protect. Japan's only reliable partner for deterring China and keeping the peace around Asia is the U.S. (And if China isn't enough of a threat for Japan, then the prospect of a reunited K-o-r-e-a, with a few nuclear warheads in the basement, should be sufficient to frighten anyone here into making certain the Yankees don't go home.) 
 "Japan alone cannot handle China, Japan alone cannot handle a unified Korea and Japan alone cannot protect its own sea lanes -- so for all of these reasons we need the U.S. alliance," says Masashi Nishihara, one of Japan's leading defense analysts. "But the problem is, the Japanese Government does not want to talk about the C-word or the K-word."
And that is a problem. Because for the U.S.-Japan security relationship to be sustained several things will have to change here. To begin with, Japanese officials are going to have to be prepared to talk about China. Up to now they have been loath to do so, either because of guilt over Japanese war crimes against China during World War II or because the general approach here to security problems is to stick your head in the sand and hope they just go away. Fortunately, that may be changing.
As one U.S. official remarked to me: "Neither we nor the Japanese want to articulate China as the threat, for fear that it will become self-fulfilling. But when the Japanese look down the road at China's economic growth and military buildup, they inevitably ask themselves how is Japan going to manage a China that strong. Thoughtful people here keep coming back to the U.S." The Japanese press recently highlighted the fact that China, in its attacks on Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, has repeatedly referred to him as "an agent of Japan." Mr. Lee is not only a graduate of Cornell. He also attended Japan's Kyoto University and he still reads the Japanese newspapers every morning.
Japanese officials are also going to have to get comfortable with a new, more broadly defined security relationship with Washington. Right now the U.S.-Japan security treaty is very clear about what happens if Japan is invaded by China. But it is completely unclear about how the U.S. and Japan should cooperate if Taiwan is invaded by China, or if U.S. troops in South Korea are attacked by North Korea. U.S. officials have no idea if Japan would allow them to use U.S. facilities here to defend Taiwan against China.
Japan's economic assets are now regional, the threats to Japan's security are now regional, but the Japanese interpretation of the U.S.-Japan alliance, and of the Japanese Constitution, is that Japan's army can only cooperate with the U.S. to defend its own territory. That situation cannot last. "If American boys are dying for Taiwan and we don't help, we destroy the alliance," says Hisahiko Okazaki, Japan's former Ambassador to Thailand and its most outspoken advocate of U.S.-Japan cooperation to deter China.
Japanese leaders could interpret their Constitution more broadly if they wanted to -- and they better. Because Japan can only really protect itself if it works collectively with the U.S. to deal with security threats in Asia before they reach Japan's shores. Says Mr. Nishihara: "Prime Minister [Ryutaro] Hashimoto should stand up and say that Japan is prepared to work with the U.S. to promote a peaceful settlement of the China-Taiwan dispute -- the Chinese would get the message."
It will take time, but I am convinced Japan will send that message. C-h-i-n-a will make sure of that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; JAPAN (98%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



702 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Reforming Civil Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Peter Passell (Economic Scene, Feb. 22) cites a law professor's prediction that under California's Proposition 202 on the March 26 ballot, civil lawsuits would be settled earlier and less of the proceeds would go to lawyers. That's true. But the motivation behind the proposition isn't to see lawyers get less; it's to see injured victims keep more. 
 Mr. Passell also airs a plaintiff lawyer's claim that Proposition 202's cap on early-settlement legal fees would give lawyers an incentive to press for quick settlements "so they could collect an easy 15 percent and go on to the next case." That is not true. Under the proposition, lawyers would be less tempted to urge acceptance of a lowball offer, since they would get only 15 percent, instead of today's 33 percent.
 
ANDREW TOBIAS
Miami, Feb. 26, 1996
 
The writer is a founder of the Alliance to Revitalize California, the sponsor of Proposition 202.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ALLIANCE TO REVITALIZE CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE TO REVITALIZE CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFERENDUMS LAWYERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; TOBIAS, ANDREW PETER PASSELL (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



703 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The V-Chip G-String

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
The Hollywood mogul Barry Diller, half-joking, says he is looking forward to attending tomorrow's much-ballyhooed White House meeting between the President and show-biz potentates so he can "see how Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Turner treat each other." As recently as Monday Rupert Murdoch was accusing CNN of "brown-nosing foreign dictators" in retaliation for Ted Turner's recent characterization of him as a "schlockmeister."
President Clinton, meanwhile, may be looking forward to a P.R. coup. The networks, which only weeks ago threatened to fight the V-chip to the death, have now about-faced and are scrambling to agree upon a chip-activating TV ratings system -- all since Mr. Clinton announced tomorrow's meeting in his State of the Union address. 
 Newt Gingrich, not to be left out, may yet upstage the President. He has scheduled his own breakfast for the media elite just before the White House meeting -- with Sonny Bono on the marquee.
Yes, there's something for everyone in tomorrow's convergence of Hollywood and Washington -- except, perhaps, for the very parents and children who are supposed to benefit from all this ostentatious concern about their video welfare.
It's not for nothing that the networks are suddenly capitulating to a ratings system. They've finally realized that it can be as broad (and hard to enforce) as the movie ratings system it will mimic, in which a PG-13 can cover a multitude of sins. As Mr. Diller says, the entire network prime-time schedule could be rated very simply right now: "Comedies all have sex, so be advised; dramas all have some violence, so be advised." If parents activate the V-chip, they'll be able to block them all -- which once again raises the question of why responsible parents don't just turn off the set in the first place.
But as Mr. Diller rightly considers the V-chip "a genuinely dumbbell idea" that mostly serves the hypocrisy and cynicism of broadcasters and politicians, so he also believes, almost anomalously among his TV-industry peers, that broadcast TV must do much more for the public, especially children, as it enters the multi-channel digital era.
What, exactly? For starters, invest big money and talent in the creation of more programming that might entertain and inform the young so seductively that they'll be weaned away from trash. This issue is also on the White House's agenda tomorrow, but will sermons by Mr. Clinton and Al Gore, however sincere, really bring any action from an economically cutthroat industry with so little recent history of voluntarily serving kids?
The most forceful advocates for better children's television I've talked to believe the broadcasters will make a real, long-term commitment to public-interest TV only if forced to do so as part of a trade-off for that hot commodity known as "spectrum." Simply put, "spectrum" is the additional airwaves that broadcasters want for digital TV -- and want free. Mr. Diller postulates a reasonable quid-pro-quo equation instead: "If broadcasters are going to get new channels and have reinvigorated public responsibility, they should get them free." If not, "they should pay whatever the Government can gouge out of them."
The spectrum debate will come to a head when Congress holds hearings next month, as it tries to decide whether to give the airwaves away or auction them -- with or without public-service requirements. The most consistent Congressional champion of children's TV rights, Edward Markey of Massachusetts, argues that this historic decision over spectrum offers "the last opportunity for commercial broadcasting to be made safe for kids."
But President Clinton isn't seizing that opportunity; he won't link spectrum to children's television. The G.O.P. leadership, which tried to kill Big Bird, will hardly fill the vacuum; it prefers to buy off the public with William Bennett's ineffectual fulminations about Ricki Lake.
After tomorrow's meetings, don't expect network news shows to ask politicians, let alone their own executives, tough questions about the future of children's television; everyone on both sides of the camera will be hiding behind ratings and the V-chip instead. What parents may need most of all is a B-chip to winnow out the phony panaceas from whatever genuine progress is made on behalf of TV-watching kids during an election year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (90%); CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); FOX BROADCASTING CO NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO INC (91%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (90%); CBS CORP (90%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (90%); COS INC (59%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); FOX BROADCASTING CO WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CENSORSHIP BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FILM (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CENSORSHIP (75%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (74%); MOVIE RATINGS (74%); FAMILY (71%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK BARRY DILLER (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (72%); FRANK RICH (59%); AL GORE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



704 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
'Penny Philanthropist' Inspires Dozens to Make Small Donations

BYLINE: By SARAH JAY 

 BODY:
He spoke, and people listened. George C. Ginsberg, 96, known to relatives as Papa George and to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund as the Penny Philanthropist, has never been bashful about the amount that he gives, which usually hovers between $1 and $10. He has urged others not to refrain from giving simply because they could not give large sums.
His words were heard and heeded by dozens of people who said they wanted to join the Penny Philanthropy movement, and they credit Mr. Ginsberg as the catalyst. 
 "I am a college student, so I don't have too much to give," wrote Tiffany Refior of Harrison, N.Y. "Mr. Ginsberg made a good point when he said that you'd reach your goal if every Times reader gave a dollar. Here are five."
A $100 gift from Liane J. Revzin of Manhattan arrived with the note: "I did delay. I did forget -- until inspired by Papa George's dedication and enthusiasm."
Mrs. S. Arilotta affixed a yellow Post-It note to her $10 check and wrote, "To help Mr. Ginsberg's prediction come true."
Mr. Ginsberg, of Springfield, N.J., said he had a feeling that the fund would reach $5 million this year. As of yesterday, the fund was still $453,415 away from his forecast. The drive officially ends tomorrow, but donations postmarked by March 1 and received by March 8 will be included in the final tally.
For the last three years, the fund, which provides direct services to thousands of poor New Yorkers each year, has finished its winter appeal in the $4.5 million range. The number of contributors has been declining, but the fund has held its ground as people have given larger donations.
Like many others, Eileen Donohue of Manhattan, who gave $20, said Mr. Ginsberg's commitment to giving moved her to action. "I can only afford a small donation and never sent it before because I didn't think it would really help," Ms. Donohue wrote. "Now I know otherwise."
Judy Goldberg of Brooklyn wrote, "Even though I am currently unemployed, I was touched by the story of Papa George." She sent $5.
A Baltimore woman, Kathleen C. Novak, sent $25 and a message with the heading: "George C. Ginsberg for President." She said Mr. Ginsberg's generous spirit inspired her to "whip out the checkbook and join in the giving."
"I hope to inspire my children with tales of Mr. Ginsberg," Ms. Novak wrote. "What a great example for all."
Mr. Ginsberg's impact is apparent not only in the numbers of letters but also in the increase in donations of $10 or less. Besides the typical personal check, the fund has received dollar bills, small money orders and a traveler's check in the last week.
"I will feel somewhat less 'fat and greedy' if I send something," wrote Cathy M. Dillon of Old Greenwich, Conn., with her $23 gift. "Also, I hate to be left out of a good thing and wouldn't want to be the only reader who didn't send $1!"
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
130 East 59th Street, Room 427, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $4,532,880.36
Recorded yesterday $13,705.30
 
Total $4,546,585.66

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); 

PERSON: JAY, SARAH GEORGE C GINSBERG (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



705 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
A haven for after-work volleyball shows that amenities are back in corporate office parks.

BYLINE: By Maura Webber 

DATELINE: UPPER MERION, Pa.

 BODY:
A 72,000-square-foot volleyball center in a corporate office park in this town 20 miles west of Philadelphia is a prime example of the growth of recreational amenities in corporate and industrial areas.
For VB Associates, the partnership that developed the volleyball project, the site in the Renaissance at Gulph Mills Corporate Center seemed ideal. Their complex of 10 indoor courts -- called the Courthouse -- is surrounded by office workers who can organize company teams and rent courts for $50 an hour after work. The opening was in November. 
 The partners bought their site from Pasquale Properties, the developer of the 220-acre corporate center, which already has a two-mile jogging path.
H. Donald Pasquale, managing partner at Pasquale Properties, sold the five acres for the Courthouse for $600,000. "All those little things are important," he said. "The jogging path, the recreational facilities."
Dr. Fred Balduini, an orthopedic surgeon who owns a medical practice called South Jersey Sports Medicine, and Michael Dolan of Dolan Contractors Inc. of Westampton, N.J., formed VB Associates and built the warehouse-like building for about $2.5 million. They had considered converting old warehouses but found that most of them were in sites much less accessible than Gulph Mills.
Their center has opened at a time when many business park developers have cut back on amenities. Robert Grabus, president of the Delaware Valley chapter of the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties, said it was fashionable in the 1980's to provide recreational spaces and restaurants.
But as the recession hit, he said, fewer park developers could afford such extras. Instead, outside developers like VB Associates seem to have filled the gap, building workout gyms and ice skating rinks in some parks.
Gulph Mills Corporate Center currently has about 800,000 square feet of office, warehouse and distribution space, and the capacity to add more than double that amount. Construction resumed in the center last year, after a three-year lull. In addition to the Courthouse, last year's activity included construction of two other buildings for office and distribution use with a total of 120,000 square feet of space.
The Courthouse was designed by Dolan Contractors, using a plan similar to that for warehouses. Graham Stewart, a vice president at Dolan, said thick 7.5-inch walls help support the roof and eliminate the need for perimeter columns that might obstruct play. The 28-foot ceilings let balls rise unimpeded. The regulation-size courts fit into 60-by-40-foot bays, with space for bleachers.
VB Associates subleased 7,200 square feet of the building to Novacare, a medical rehabilitation services company based in Valley Forge, Pa. The leased area includes an executive gym, whirlpools and doctors' offices.
Growing interest in volleyball has encouraged such developments nationwide, said John Kessel of USA Volleyball, the sport's national governing body in Colorado Springs. The Courthouse, he said, is one of about 60 large volleyball complexes opened or being developed, with many developers converting unused warehouse space. With the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta approaching, Mr. Kessel and others say the sport will gain even more attention.
Still, some real estate brokers say that if the state of suburban Philadelphia's office market continues to improve, Mr. Pasquale may want to reconsider whether recreational projects make economic sense. Land is worth much more for office development than for recreational use.
The office vacancy rate in the suburbs dropped from 14.2 percent at the end of 1994 to 13.2 percent in 1995, said Steven Cousart, a vice president of office properties for the Grubb & Ellis real estate brokerage firm in King of Prussia, Pa. VB Associates might ultimately want to convert the volleyball center to a more conventional business park use, he said.
"We are expecting the market to become a lot stronger in the next year, although much of it is musical chairs," said Michael McShane, leasing manager at Grubb & Ellis. "Once the vacancy rate gets below 10 percent, we can consider the market healthy. We can expect that to happen in the next year or so." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONTRACTORS INC (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); GULPH MILLS CORPORATE CENTER (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: GULPH MILLS CORPORATE CENTER (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UPPER MERION TOWNSHIP (PA); UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); SPORTS MEDICINE (67%); ICE SKATING (50%); 

PERSON: WEBBER, MAURA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



706 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Traders Still Jittery As Prices Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The mood among bond traders remains jittery, and prices moved lower for the third consecutive day yesterday as investors focused more on this week's supply of new Treasury securities than on the long list of positive economic factors reported yesterday.
The 30-year bond fell 6/32, to a price of 93 27/32 for a yield of 6.47 percent, up from 6.45 percent on Monday. 
 Among the bullish factors that analysts cited were a friendly wholesale producer price report, some central bank buying in support of the dollar, and Fed buying of two- and five-year maturities and a weak retail sales report for January.
At yesterday's auction the Treasury sold $18.25 billion of new two-year notes at a high yield of 5.235 percent, the highest in two months.
Traders said demand appeared adequate in this Dutch auction format. It is a single price system in which notes are awarded at the highest yield needed to sell them. Today the Treasury will sell $12 billion of five-year notes using the same single price format, and in when-issued trading the five-year notes were being offered at a price to yield 5.65 percent, up from 5.55 percent the previous day. The when-issued yield for the two-year backed up about 5 basis points, or five one-hundredths of a percentage point.
Any early price gains quickly faded when the Conference Board's measure of consumer confidence in February reversed January's plunge and came in at a stronger than expected 97.0, compared with 88.4 in January. The rise in consumer confidence suggested to some market participants that the Fed might not feel compelled to cut interest rates aggressively. Investors and traders had expected a lot of weakness in the economy, but some numbers are indicating improvement.
Frank Sannella, senior fixed-income analyst at Technical Data in Boston, said the strong confidence report "gave the market a perfect opportunity to set up for the monthly two-year note auction."
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, said yesterday's economic statistics brought a mixed bag of market reactions. "The P.P.I. rose 0.3 percent in January, and while this was above the trend rate of producer inflation, as opposed to consumer inflation, for the third consecutive month, it was also considerably less than both market expectations and fears," he said.
"Retail sales, on the other hand, came in somewhat stronger than expected, despite a 0.3 percent decline in January, with upward revisions to both November and December, as well." Later in the morning came the consumer confidence data, which bounced back to 97.0 in February from a depressed 88.4 in January. "However, the trend in consumer confidence appears to be waning," Mr. Fine said, "which calls into question the buoyancy of consumer spending over the upcoming months. Indeed, the evidence seen recently continues to point to an economy that is not about to enter a recession anytime soon, with a trend rate of growth above the fourth quarter's 0.9 percent. At the same time, however, business activity, particularly in the manfucturing sector, appears to be advancing at a suboptimal pace from the Fed's point of view, which certainly leaves the door open for further Fed easing."
But according to Mr. Fine, many market participants are questioning whether the Fed's next easing move will be the last for the foreseeable future.
Anthony Dwyer, chief market strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, noted there were a lot of jitters in the bond markets. The market has broken some key support levels and has not experienced a bounce, he added. So the technical-oriented investors are using this weakness as a sign of deterioration and the market is feeding on the weakenss.
"Basically I think the short end of the market is reflecting the next Fed cut, with the long end discounting a stronger growth economy in the second half of the year," he said.
"The data we saw today serves as confirmation that we are in a weak growth environment and increases the probability of another rate cut in March."
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.235%
Low Yield . . . 5.190%
Median Yield . . . 5.220%
Accepted at low price . . . 50%
Total applied for . . . $42,638,730
Accepted . . . $18,258,230
Noncompetitive . . . $1,719,000
Interest set at . . . 5 1/8
 
The two-year notes mature Feb. 28, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT TECHNICAL DATA SYSTEMS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); RETAIL SALES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



707 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Feel More Upbeat, Survey Shows

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Consumers felt much better about the economy in February, a monthly survey showed today. Analysts took the finding as support for the recent assessment by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, that economic weakness would likely prove temporary.
The survey by the Conference Board, a New York research organization, reported that confidence among its sample of 5,000 households rebounded to 97 this month from 88.4 in January, when consumers were barraged by news about layoffs, strikes, storms, a partial shutdown of the Government and swollen business inventories. 
 The January decline was a result of a convergence of mostly one-time events, said Edgar R. Fiedler, counselor to the Conference Board, "rather than a signal from consumers that severe economic hardship was on the way."
Economic weakness -- with little inflation -- was evident today in two Government reports for January on producer prices and retail sales. Still, while consumer confidence is not robust -- it was lower in only two months in 1995 -- analysts said the surge in February suggested that further deterioration in the economy was not likely.
As a result, the analysts said they did not expect that Mr. Greenspan and other Federal Reserve policy makers would be compelled to lower short-term interest rates soon.
The Labor Department reported that the Producer Price Index for January climbed three-tenths of 1 percent, but only because of a second consecutive leap in the price of gasoline.
Excluding food and energy, both erratic items, the core Producer Price Index edged down one-tenth of 1 percent, the first decline since October 1994. Producer prices are the prices that manufacturers and farmers charge for the products they sell to retailers, distributors or other buyers.
"Businesses are being forced to cut prices to spur demand to reduce inventories," said Michelle C. Laughlin, chief economist at the Sanwa Bank in New York.
Analysts also said there was virtually no inflation at earlier stages of the production pipeline. Prices of core intermediate goods, such as a bolt of cloth, have now fallen five consecutive months while core crude goods, such as a bale of cotton, have fallen or been unchanged for seven consecutive months.
"The weakness in these core prices reflects not only an abatement of inflation expectations but also the weakness of the global economy," said Elliott Platt, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
The performance of consumer prices in January will be reported by the Labor Department on Wednesday.
The retail sales report, from the Commerce Department, showed a decline in spending of three-tenths of 1 percent in January along with upward revisions of advances for November and December.
Still, this was a smaller slump than many analysts had expected for last month considering the blizzard that buried most of the Northeast.
"The retail sales report adds to the evidence that pessimism on the consumer was overdone at the end of last year," said James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at Morgan Guaranty Trust.
Automotive dealers and others selling durable goods -- those intended to last at least three years -- took in 1 percent less revenue than in December while those selling nondurable goods saw a rise of two-tenths of 1 percent, the report also showed.
The Commerce Department figures are adjusted for recurring seasonal variation, for holidays and for quirks of the calendar but not for price changes.
The Conference Board's survey found confidence rebounding in eight of nine regions, with only the East North Central states -- Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin -- showing a decline. This area, however, had the highest January reading.
As has been the case for an extended period, confidence is lowest in the Middle Atlantic States, with New England second weakest.
Compared with December, the report also showed, the expectations of consumers for the months ahead were modestly lower while their assessment of current conditions was virtually unchanged.
Movement in the Producer Price Index was dominated by a 2.7 percent jump in the price of energy that followed a 3.7 percent December surge. This roughly offset an unbroken series of declines over the preceding six months. The price of gasoline soared 13.3 percent on top of an 8.9 percent jump in December.
Among intermediate goods, copper and brass mill shapes and other durables used in manufacturing fell nine-tenths of 1 percent while nondurable factory items like chemicals eased seven-tenths of 1 percent.
Producers of raw materials saw receipts rise 2.1 percent but this mainly reflected a surge of 7.3 percent for natural gas, crude petroleum and other energy items.
As for retail sales, which account for one-third of gross domestic product, there were revenue declines of 1.2 percent for automotive dealers, seven-tenths of 1 percent for merchants selling furniture and other home equipment and four-tenths of 1 percent for those selling building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes.
Sales were down three-tenths of 1 percent at stores selling apparel and accessories and one-tenth of 1 percent at bars and restaurants, the report also showed.
But there were increases of three-tenths of 1 percent at department stores and other purveyors of general merchandise.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Consumer Confidence" tracks results of the Conference Board's survey of 5,000 households from January 1995 through February 1996. (Source: Conference Board via Bloomberg Business News) (pg. D1); "Producer Prices" tracks index of finished goods prices, seasonally adjusted, from August 1994 through January 1996. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); FABRICS (61%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



708 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Market Place: Investors might want to carefully examine the reasons for Wal-Mart's drop in earnings.

BYLINE: By Jennifer Steinhauer 

 BODY:
SOME retail companies no longer need rising profits to keep their stock afloat these days -- they just have to be honest about a disappointing performance.
That is the apparent message Wall Street has sent about Wal-Mart Stores. The company announced last month that it would have its first quarter of declining earnings since it went public in 1970, attributing the downturn to a poor Christmas, snowstorms in the Northeast and high operating costs. The stock took a hit, then recovered much of the 14 percent it lost in the two days after the announcement. 
 Yesterday, the bad news was confirmed. The company, which is based in Bentonville, Ark., said that for its fiscal fourth quarter ending Jan. 31, earnings were down 9 percent, to $942 million, or 41 cents a share, compared with earnings of $1.03 billion, or 45 cents a share, for the comparable period a year earlier. The stock fell early in the day but recovered to end at $21.75 a share, unchanged, on the New York Stock Exchange.
This may be because some analysts have decided that the news was actually good, and that the company would learn from mistakes made in its fourth quarter. But investors would be wise to examine the reasons for the company's earnings downturn before dismissing this disappointment as a mere blip due to bad snow and fickle Christmas shoppers.
For starters, Wal-Mart took a hard hit on its profit margins that were surprising even to those who had braced for poor earnings: gross margins were 19.8 percent, down from 20.8 last year, because of heavy promotions during the holidays. In the past, Wal-Mart has pushed Kmart and regional discounters to slash prices. Now the tables may have turned a bit.
"It used to be that when margins were low, you knew they had initiated the price reduction," said Robert F. Buchanan, an analyst at NatWest Securities. "And they offset it by lowering the expense ratio, so you didn't care," he continued. "But they are not calling all the shots anymore." Mr. Buchanan cited Toys "R" Us as one of several merchants that had beaten Wal-Mart to the markdown gun.
In its conference call with analysts, Wal-Mart executives also expressed worries that its customers were cleaning out the chain's lower-margin shelves in droves.
Further, profit improvements often depend on a retailer's growth, and Wal-Mart's potential to grow rapidly is in question. With well over 2,000 stores in every state in the nation and a few units scattered abroad, the company's expansion opportunities have become limited, according to analysts.
Wal-Mart has placed a lot of its bets on its Supercenters, stores that offer groceries and discount items. Jeffrey Edelman, an analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, predicts that the company will enjoy about 13 percent growth in sales next year, heavily reliant on the big stores.
But Wal-Mart will not be able to use one of its favorite tactics -- squeezing suppliers for low prices and thus better margins -- with food. "You have regional prices for food," said Gary Giblen, a managing director at Smith Barney. "For instance, Vons can buy their food at a more competitive rate than a Wal-Mart," he said, referring to a California-based supermarket chain.
And Wal-Mart's balance sheet is not helped by the the large payouts it has made to get its Supercenters off the ground.
Further, there is an increasing number of Wall Street wizards who doubt the viability of these giant stores -- a concept Kmart is also looking to for increased profits. "There is a lack of consumer impetus," Mr. Giblen said. "No one wants to buy tomatoes, then go buy tires and then go buy ties."
And if it is higher margins that Wal-Mart seeks, cookies and laundry detergent may not be the place to get them. Just ask Floyd Hall, the chief executive of Kmart, who has gotten almost nothing but grief over his plans to fill Kmart shelves with consumable goods.
Wal-Mart has other parts of its operations that it will have to get into shape before it enjoys stronger earnings, in addition to increased same-store sales, which most analysts are predicting for next month.
Its Canadian operations are suffering along with that country's recession, and its discount warehouse, Sam's Clubs, has long been a money pit. The company's international division had an operating loss of $13 million for last year, compared with a $4 million loss in the previous year.
Finally, there is little reason to believe that Wal-Mart can remain immune to vexing factors that have plagued the entire retail industry over the last few years: too many stores, too few shoppers, too much consumer debt and too much reliance on the intangible, cyclical nature of shoppers' buying whims.
"All the things that Wal-Mart is saying tell us they are suffering along with everyone else," Mr. Edleman of Morgan Grenfell said. "But what hurt them is they have typically always done better."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT,N)" 

Qtr. to Jan 31	1996	1995	%Ch	Rev.	27,909,000,000	24,712,000,000	+13	Net inc.	942,000,000	1,030,000,000	-8.5	Sh. earn	.41	.45		Sh. out.	2,294,000,000	2,298,000,000		Yr rev.	94,749,000,000	83,412,000,000	+14	Net inc.	2,740,000,000	2,681,000,000	+2.2	Sh. earn	1.19	1.17		Sh. out.	2,296,000,000	2,299,000,00	 	

The revenues in the latest periods included sales of $27.55 billion for the fourth quarter and $93.63 billion for the year. The Year-earlier periods' revenues included sales of $24.45 billion and $82.49 billion in the quarter and year, respectively.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$21.75
Unchanged 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (88%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (88%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC WAL-MART STORES INC (88%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); WEATHER (71%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (61%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



709 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Prices on Stocks Fall, With Dow Off 15.89

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks suffered their second setback in as many days yesterday, as Wall Street grew worried that long-term interest rates might be headed higher.
In volatile trading, the Dow Jones industrial average ended with a loss of 15.89 points at 5,549.21 after an earlier drop of more than 50 points activated the New York Stock Exchange's limit on program trading. 
 Interest-rate fears also rattled the market Monday, when the Dow dived 65.39 points to close at 5,565.10.
Some technology stocks showed strength, although the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 6.88 points, to 1,106.17.
The Standard & Poor 500-stock index also fell, declining 3.22 points, to 647.24.
"It's a market encumbered by interest-rate jitters and the outcome of the G.O.P. race," Alan Ackerman, market strategist at Fahnestock & Company, said. Republican Presidential primaries were held in North Dakota, South Dakota and Arizona yesterday.
Analysts said Wall Street feared the increasing popularity of the Republican Presidential hopeful Patrick J. Buchanan because he favors United States protectionism, which could hurt trade. And a shaky start to the campaign of the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, has been seen as a sign that President Clinton might win the election more easily, which markets view negatively.
Investors fear that long-term bond interest rates may be headed higher because of slightly stronger economic growth and diminished hopes for a Federal budget agreement, at least in the near term. Higher interest rates could stunt economic growth and hurt corporate profits by increasing the cost of borrowing.
Economic reports yesterday showed an increase in consumer confidence, to 97.0 in February, from a revised 88.4 in January.
January producer prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent; a rise of five-tenths of 1 percent was expected. January retail sales fell three-tenths of 1 percent, compared with a forecast of a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent.
In the bond market, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond slipped 9/32, pushing its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, to 6.47 percent -- the highest since Oct. 2 and up from 6.45 percent at Monday's close. Only two weeks ago, the yield was at 6.03 percent.
"The recent backup is the end of the bull market for bonds for right now," said Michael Strauss, chief economist at Yaimichi Securities. Among individual issues, U S West Media lost 5/8, to 21 5/8, after announcing the acquisition of Continental Cablevision, the third-largest United States cable operator, for $10.8 billion, including the assumption of debt.
Florida East Coast Industries climbed 8 1/8, to 83 1/8, after the announcement of the proposed sale of its railroad unit to the St. Joe Paper Company, which owns 54 percent of Florida East Coast. St. Joe Paper rose 4 3/8, to 59 3/4.
Microchip slumped 7 1/2, to 28 1/2, after the company warned that its earnings and revenues would be lower than expected for the current quarter.
In the broader market, declining issues led advances, 1,340 to 1,014, on active volume of 431.3 million shares on the Big Board. The New York Stock Exchange composite index lost 1.36 points, to 345.59. The American Stock Exchange index slid 1.49, to 563.86.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FLA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); FLORIDA EAST COAST INDUSTRIES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BUDGETS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



710 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Adviser Gets Subpoena Over Inaugural

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 27

 BODY:
The Democratic-controlled Assembly issued subpoenas today to Gov. George E. Pataki's top economic adviser and a private lawyer, seeking information about the corporation that financed Mr. Pataki's three-day inauguration last year.
Senior Democrats in the Assembly maintained that the two men and other officials were hiding how they raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for the event. 
 The move touched off what is likely to be a lengthy battle between the Republican administration and Democratic legislators over the inauguration, an elaborate affair whose records have been kept secret by the Governor's aides.
Both houses of the Legislature can issue subpoenas, but in recent decades they have seldom invoked this power. The subpoenas drew an immediate denunciation today from Pataki administration officials, who said they were considering asking a court to declare them void.
"I think that there is a real question as to the authority of what they may and may not do," Mr. Pataki said at a news conference this morning, declining to comment further.
But the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, said the public had a right to know the names of the people and corporations that donated money for the inauguration.
"This is an extraordinary remedy," Mr. Silver said. "But they have stonewalled every other attempt to acquire this information."
The Governor's aides, with his assent, set up the private corporation just after his election in 1994 to raise money for the event so that no taxpayer dollars would have to be spent. The aides said at the time that the corporation, New York Inaugural '95, would abide by state campaign contribution limits and disclose the names of all donors.
Yet the corporation did neither. According to interviews with some of the contributors, it let many companies give more than is allowed under state campaign laws, and then, in November, it announced that it would not release a list of donors or any accounting of its activities.
At the heart of the dispute is the question of who gave money to New York Inaugural '95 -- and whether those people or groups wanted favorable treatment from the state government in exchange for their contributions.
The administration has denied any wrongdoing, but senior Democrats have repeatedly called for the corporation's records to be made public, hoping to turn the inauguration into a political liability for the Governor.
Though legislative subpoenas are unusual, the Assembly Democrats have issued them on a few occasions since Mr. Pataki took office. In the most recent instance, the Governor's top environmental official, Michael D. Zagata, asked a State Supreme Court justice in Albany to quash a subpoena issued by Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester County.
In a ruling earlier this month, the justice, Thomas W. Keegan, upheld the subpoena, which sought documents related to a pollution settlement between the state and General Electric. Justice Keegan said the Assembly had to be able to obtain information that it needed to fulfill its job of making laws.
It appeared that the Assembly waited for the judge's decision before going forward with today's subpoenas. In explaining those subpoenas, senior Democrats said they required more information about the Pataki inaugural to determine whether to pass laws regulating such events.
"Perhaps we should do what other states have done and put statutory language on the books to deal with these kinds of inaugural functions," said Assemblyman Thomas DiNapoli, a Democrat from Nassau County who is chairman of the Committee on Governmental Operations.
The inaugural corporation was dissolved in November, and Mr. Pataki's aides say it raised about $600,000. But the Democrats insist that the total was closer to $1.4 million.
The Governor's aides have said that New York Inaugural '95 is under no obligation to release its records because it is not a governmental or political group. The Democrats charge that the corporation served a fundamentally political purpose and should be subject to campaign finance laws.
Last month, three Assembly committees sent letters to more than a dozen Pataki advisers and Republican officials requesting documents relating to New York Inaugural '95. None of the officials turned over any record or specific information, and as a result the Assembly turned to the subpoenas.
Though Mr. Pataki expressed doubts about the legality of the subpoenas this morning, later in the afternoon, his spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, said the Governor would have no role in determining whether to challenge them in court. She said the administration's view was that the subpoenas involved a private corporation, not state government.
She also said that the Governor would not discuss the subpoenas with the two men who received them, even though one of them, Charles A. Gargano, is now Mr. Pataki's top economic adviser.
"This is a decision that will be made independently by the officers of the corporation," she said. "He does not plan to speak to any of them."
The Assembly issued the subpoenas to Mr. Gargano and Lawrence Kalkstein, a private lawyer. Mr. Gargano was Mr. Pataki's top fund-raiser during the campaign and the chairman of a committee that organized inaugural events. Mr. Kalkstein was the corporation's lawyer.
The subpoena orders the men to testify at a hearing in the Assembly on March 20 and bring along the records of New York Inaugural '95 and a related corporation, New York Transition '95.
Caroline Quartararo, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gargano, accused the Assembly Democrats of trying to smear Mr. Gargano.
"This is nothing more than partisan politics at its worst," she said. "It should have no place in government." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INAUGURAL '95 (ORGN); NEW YORK TRANSITION '95 (ORGN) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK INAUGURAL '95 (ORGN); NEW YORK TRANSITION '95 (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUBPOENAS; INAUGURATIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ETHICS SUBPOENAS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTION LAW (75%); ETHICS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GARGANO, CHARLES A; KALKSTEIN, LAWRENCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



711 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Portrait From New Era Of Nation's Gambling

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: JOLIET, Ill.

 BODY:
Her nimble fingers dance across the red felt semicircle, dealing cards and sweeping up chips. She calculates at lightning speed, rewarding good luck with more chips, and grimacing as she cleans out a loser.
Jan Craven is a blackjack dealer aboard the Northern Star riverboat casino, one of two owned by Harrah's Entertainment that ply one and one-half miles of a canal through industrial wasteland, satisfying a state requirement that gambling take place only offshore. "She's got personality, personality," chants Mike Jones, a tavern owner from Indiana who has amassed a $980 stack of chips as tall as his rum and Coke. 
 In holding customers to their tables, keeping all betting and most happy, game dealers like 41-year-old Ms. Craven have helped ignite the boom in a business that has spread from Nevada and New Jersey to 21 other states since 1989. With the growth of gambling, casinos now employ tens of thousands of dealers. A divorced mother with two boys, ages 10 and 12, Ms. Craven is a silk-collar heir to the middle-class, blue-collar worker whose fortunes have sunk with the mergers, layoffs and cost-cutting in manufacturing industries. Raised in the Bronx, she previously held a lower paid job in a telecommunications plant near Dallas where she was a fiber-optics technician. Her formal education, like that of most blue-collar workers, stopped with her high school diploma.
Legalized gambling, which opened in Joliet almost four years ago, also has been the salvation of this city of 83,000 that was best known for a jail, dead factories and, in Will County, an unemployment rate that reached 27.6 percent for a month in 1983. Thanks largely to casinos, it is now about 5 percent.
Casinos became Joliet's biggest employer almost overnight, having surpassed a Caterpillar tractor plant with 3,500 workers.
All this has made Joliet, like many other once-ailing communities that have brought in casinos, a place of relative prosperity.
Two casino companies, with two boats each, operate here: Harrah's, owned by The Promus Companies, and the locally owned Empress River Casino Corporation. Ninety percent of the 4,000 employees of these companies work full time.
They earn an average of $24,000 a year, about $3,000 more than the average American worker. The 800 men and women who preside over the blackjack, baccarat, craps, roulette and Caribbean stud tables earn $30,000 or more -- often enough here to maintain the fast-disappearing, one-worker family.
And even the least skilled and lowest paid workers get employer-subsidized health insurance, retirement plans, free uniforms and free meals on the job.
"Workers are buying things they never had, getting medical attention they never had," said Teri Shannon, an organizer here for the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union and bargainer for many Empress workers, but not the dealers.
"They're buying cars and motorcycles. Local gyms are doing very well. Single mothers without college educations are doing a lot better than they ever could have without the riverboats."
Organized labor has had a pivotal role in the workers' well-being. Management of Harrah's, which is nonunion, says its wages are driven by Empress, which has been organized by Ms. Shannon's union and the International Union of Operating Engineers.
"We try to stay competitive," said Patrick R. Dennehy, general manager of the Harrah's casinos here.
Efforts to organize dealers throughout the industry so far have failed. But management goes to some lengths to keep them happy, because without dealers and their skills, the business would sink.
Dealers like Ms. Craven strive to set a happy tone as soon as their patrons take stools at their tables. Within minutes of boarding for a two-hour cruise, Mike Jones, the tavern owner, in a blue Notre Dame sweatshirt, sat down and said he was prepared to bet and lose $1,000.
Essie Johnson, a correctional officer from Chicago in a gold-flecked violet sweater, beside him, said: "I'll do a couple of hundred on two cruises. That's it." Four other customers, all women, took the remaining stools.
Ms. Craven greeted four by name and encouraged the others to introduce themselves. "I try to make them feel they're at my kitchen table," she said. "If they're having fun, you're having fun, too."
Bantering started, and the customers kept it alive. "Once I get a conversation going, I don't have to talk any more," Ms. Craven said. "They're talking to each other."
Then the game began. With color-coded chips, the customers placed bets of $25, $50 and $100 toward a goal of being dealt two cards that total 21 for an instant 3-to-2 payoff. Ms. Craven, in her green silk shirt and clipped-on bow tie, her sometimes weary feet in black tennis shoes, dealt each customer two cards face up and two for herself -- one, a 9, face up, the other down.
As the game progressed, Mr. Jones got a 5, which gave him 20 -- close enough to win the round. "There you go!" Ms. Craven said, looking like she truly enjoyed handing him a fistful of the house's chips.
Ms. Craven receives no incentives to help the house win or for goading her customers to bet more or faster than they feel they should. Siding with the customer is one of the keys to the growth of casino gambling. Dealers are expected to keep customers happy because happy customers return. Without any help from dealers, the odds automatically favor the house, so dealers can dwell on keeping up spirits.
"Dealers have face-to-face contact with the customer for extended periods of time," said Mr. Dennehy, the Harrah's manager. "They have responsibility for that customer, even under adverse conditions. They set the tempo of the game and monitor the intricacies of it. They celebrate when the customers win and commiserate when they lose."
But dealers must also be technically flawless in doling out chips, and alert to cheating, like "capping," when a customer surreptitiously tries to add chips to those he has bet when he expects to win. "You need peripheral vision," Ms. Craven said.
An hour into the two-hour cruise, only one customer, a woman, has left the table. Another woman customers bet the last of her remaining chips, $50 worth. Her first two cards added up to 14. "Hit me," she said. She got a Queen, worth 10, so she was out with 24. Sad, looking drained, she rose to go. With an empathetic smile, Ms. Craven told her: "Thanks for coming. Maybe you should go home. Or try another game."
That is the down side of this job, Ms. Craven said. "Sometimes they have days when they lose all they've won," she said. And no amount of kitchen table consolation helps. "We just shuffle the cards. They make the decisions. When they lose like that, they're not happy, and you can't make them happy. It kind of brings down the whole table. It brings you down, too."
Ms. Craven works Tuesday through Saturday on day shifts at the floating casino, which operates 22 hours a day. She is paid $5 an hour, but she earns at least twice that in tips. Periodically during the game, customers add a chip for the dealer alongside their own bets. Management, which tracks all such transactions, pools the tips and distributes them among all dealers.
Near the end of the cruise, the mood at Ms. Craven's table turned boisterous as all six customers were beating the house. Ms. Johnson got a two-card blackjack with a 10 and an ace. Then Mr. Jones got one with a Queen and an ace. Next time around, Ms. Johnson, dealt a 10 and a 4, pointed to her cards showing she wanted another.
"Hit that girl!" Mr. Jones ordered Ms. Craven. Ms. Johnson got a 6, making 20.
"There you go, again!" said Ms. Craven who had dealt the house 18.
"Oh, are we good, girl!" Mr. Jones said to Ms. Johnson as they smacked their hands in high-fives. He thrusthis cellular phone in front of her. "It's the President calling to congratulate you," he said.
Joann Pankow, a games manager, came by and took in the atmosphere at Ms. Craven's table. "She's developed a rhythm," Ms. Pankow said. "She's not only good technically. She makes it fun. She makes it a game."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harrah's Northern Star riverboat casino and three others operating from Joliet, Ill., employ 4,000 people, who earn more than average Americans, taking gamblers on cruises in a bleak canal. Jan Craven, a dealer on Harrah's casino riverboat, says she keeps players happy by acting as though the game were at her kitchen table. (Photographs by Lloyd DeGrane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (94%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (94%); EMPRESS RIVER CASINO CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOLIET (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CASINOS CASINOS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); CARD GAMES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); HOTEL STAFF (66%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); FIBER OPTICS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T JAN CRAVEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



712 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Bellinzona Journal;
Poor Swiss Get U.S. Bill: $125 Billion and Change

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: BELLINZONA, Switzerland, Feb. 21

 BODY:
This is a town of steep lanes, floodlighted castles atop rocky outcroppings and thick Alpine mists. It finds relief from February's glumness mainly in weeklong Carnival festivities.
Relief is something the burghers of Bellinzona sorely need. Word belatedly got out in the fall that Ticino, the canton of which Bellinzona is the capital, had been ordered by a court in New York to come up with $125 billion to pay American investors who say they lost their money when a tiny bank in Ticino, Inter Change Bank, failed nearly three decades ago. 
 The exact amount was $125,444,300,221, but the local newspaper, Corriere del Ticino, rounded it off when it reported the news, perhaps to avoid unnecessary embarrassment.
It was the ultimate indignity for Ticino, population 300,000, long the poor cousin in affluent Switzerland. With the powerful Swiss franc making local hotels prohibitively expensive to most foreigners, major regional industries like tourism are suffering, and the unemployment rate is 8.5 percent, roughly double the national average.
With an annual government budget of about $2.1 billion, Alex Pedrazzini, the lawyer who heads Ticino's Justice Department, said "we'd be paying for more than 70 years" to repay the fantastic sum, almost half the United States annual military budget.
The legal entanglements surrounding the case have already cost Ticino $854,000 in lawyers' fees, and the government recently turned to the Swiss Parliament for an additional $1.7 million. Its remaining hope is a Federal court hearing in New York on Feb. 28, when its lawyers want to get the lower court decision reversed.
"If not, we'll all be working for McDonald's and Burger King the rest of our lives to pay it off," Mr. Pedrazzini said.
No one really believes Ticino will have to pay, given that the plaintiffs waited until 1989 to file suit, long after the statute of limitations ran out in the bankruptcy case, which wound up two years earlier.
To Werner Abegg, the Swiss National Bank spokesman in Zurich, too many details in the case are murky, including why the investors put such a large amount of money in such a tiny bank, which had only $14 million in assets.
To local businessmen, like Franco Ambrosetti, the head of a company that makes aircraft landing gear, Ticino is probably the target of a huge scam. But he blames the local government for having handled it badly and wasting taxpayer money.
"This isn't some judge in Burundi, it's a court in the United States," he said. "You shouldn't have let it get that far."
Ticino's headaches began in 1989, when lawyers for a man named Robert Granville Higgins filed suit in New York asserting that in 1966 the estate of Mr. Higgins's late brother, Sterling Granville Higgins, deposited $600 million in options on oil and mineral deposits in Venezuela with Inter Change Bank.
The complex arrangement called for the bank to pay an extraordinary interest rate on the money of 1 percent per week, the lawyers asserted. In 1967, Inter Change collapsed under a mountain of bad debt.
In October 1994 the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn ruled that Ticino and the bank's liquidators had to pay back the $600 million, plus interest, which brought the total to $125 billion.
"It's a bizarre case," said Paul Bschorr, a lawyer at the New York firm of Dewey Ballantine, who represents the Bellinzona government. "I've never seen one like it in my life."
Two months after the original verdict, the Brooklyn court ordered Swiss assets in the United States to be attached unless Ticino paid what it owed. Alarmed, the New York Federal Reserve sought and obtained a staying order suspending that ruling.
The Swiss are watching the case closely, not least because of another lawsuit brought in Manila against Swiss banks by thousands of Filipinos. Ferdinand E. Marcos, the former Philippine President, is thought to have put $475 million in Swiss banks, and the Swiss fear that courts in Hawaii, where Mr. Marcos died in exile in 1989, could attach assets of their American branches to pay the money to the Filipinos in compensation for political persecution suffered under the Marcos Government.
Here in Bellinzona, most people believe they are the target of a huge swindle in the New York case.
According to Mr. Ambrosetti, who heads the local chamber of commerce, people reacted by saying, "It can't be true, the guy's a crook." And indeed, both Robert and Sterling Granville Higgins had served time in jail in the United States, Robert for fraud, Sterling for issuing bad checks.
Sterling Granville Higgins died in San Quentin in 1961 at the age of 37. His net worth at the time, according to papers filed with the court, was less than $5,000. His brother Robert spent seven years in prison in the 1960's and 1970's.
What is also puzzling is how the court handed down a ruling solely on the claims of the plaintiff's lawyers. The $600 million appears to have been under Inter Change Bank's fiduciary management, so it did not appear on the bank's balance sheet.
"It never seems to have been made clear where the $600 million came from in the first place," Mr. Abegg, the National Bank spokesman, said recently. "The whole thing is extremely odd."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Bellinzona, capital of the Swiss canton of Ticino, citizens learned last fall that Ticino had been ordered to pay $125 billion to the heirs of an American investor who lost money when a local bank failed in the 1960's. (Swiss National Tourist Office)
 
Map of Swtzerland showing location of Ticino. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BURUNDI (79%); 

STATE: TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ZURICH (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER CHANGE BANK (SWITZERLAND) SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (63%); SWISS NATIONAL TOURIST OFFICE (59%); SWISS NATIONAL TOURIST OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER CHANGE BANK (SWITZERLAND) SWISS NATIONAL TOURIST OFFICE (59%); SWISS NATIONAL TOURIST OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TICINO (SWITZERLAND); SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BURUNDI (79%); TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ZURICH (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%); AIRCRAFT LANDING SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN STERLING GRANVILLE HIGGINS (76%); ROBERT GRANVILLE HIGGINS (70%); FERDINAND E MARCOS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



713 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Chief Set for Deal to Bar Islamic Party

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ROME, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Jarred by a pro-Islamic party's close brush with power, Prime Minister Tansu Ciller of Turkey said here today that she was ready to make sacrifices to form a center-right coalition taking shape in Ankara, in order to block the party from any future role in government.
Invoking the image of the self-sacrificing mother in the legend of King Solomon's judgment, Mrs. Ciller said in an interview here today that she was "prepared to do what I have to do" to stop the pro-Islamic Welfare Party, which scored a narrow victory in Turkish elections last December. 
 Mrs. Ciller, in Rome to enlist the support of the Italian Government on the subject of Turkey's longstanding disputes with Greece, returned to Ankara tonight for a crucial meeting on Wednesday with her archrival, Mesut Yilmaz, leader of the center-right Motherland Party. Mr. Yilmaz's two-week coalition talks with the Welfare Party collapsed several days ago.
According to her aides, Mrs. Ciller is prepared to agree to a rotating premiership and, stepping back from her earlier bargaining stance, to let Mr. Yilmaz take the first turn. Under the terms of the deal being negotiated, Mr. Yilmaz would serve for a year, Mrs. Ciller would then returnfor a two-year stint and Mr. Yilmaz would follow her for a two-year rotation, the aides said.
Mrs. Ciller declined to be specific, referring instead to the story of the mother who agreed to give up her baby rather than see it cut in half in a test decreed by King Solomon. Mrs. Ciller, 49, a former economics professor who spent several years studying in the United States, is the leader of the True Path Party, Turkey's other center-right party.
As she has in the past, Mrs. Ciller invoked the Islamic threat in her appeal to the West for support of Turkey -- a Muslim country with a long tradition of West-leaning secularism -- in its recurring disputes with Greece. Saying that the Welfare Party had exploited the feeling, shared by many Turks, that Turkey gets second-class treatment from Christian nations, she warned that support for Greece in its attempts to block aid to Turkey would increase the perception among Turks that Europe is unfair.
A coalition between Mrs. Ciller and Mr. Yilmaz -- both pro-European free marketeers -- has been strongly favored by Turkey's business and military establishment as a way out of a political crisis that began before the December elections. But until now, the two leaders have been unable to overcome their bitter personal rivalry, and neither has given up insisting on being the lead-off prime minister in a coalition.
Angered by Mr. Yilmaz's recent overtures to Necmettin Erbakan, the mercurial leader of the Welfare Party who has been shunned by other mainstream politicians, Mrs. Ciller said she saw it as her duty to try to forge new bonds between "two parties that have similar programs."
"I felt I had two historic missions for Turkey," she said. "One, to step Welfare from becoming part of the government and two, to unite one way or another, so that our two parties will form a bloc of 40 percent and so that in the future there will not be the threat of a small radical party coming into the picture and dictating the destiny of Turkey."
Mrs. Ciller, who in recent weeks said a deal with Mr. Erbakan would plunge Turkey into "darkness," noted that even during the delicate coalition talks, the Welfare Party leader had praised the Iranian revolution, condemned United Nations sanctions against Iraq and threatened to pull out of Turkey's recently concluded customs agreement witht the European Union. But the greatest danger, she said, would be to let the strong-willed, tightly disciplined Islamic party get a foot inside the Turkish Government.
"It is a very disciplined party, and they get hold of the bureaucracy very easily," she said. "They have done that before, and we still have remnants."
Mr. Erbakan, a veteran of Turkish politics who served in two coalition governments in the 1970's, has seen his party ride a wave of economic and social discontent in Turkey, fueled by high inflation, high unemployment and disgust with the corruption and general behavior of the mainstream parties. Its success in December -- it captured 21.4 percent of the vote -- was due in large measure to the strength of its grass-roots operations, and also to the increase in parties that together divided the secularist vote.
Although he later toned down his anti-Western language, Mr. Erbakan has clearly relishes his position as a pariah among Turkey's committed secularists and has repeatedly said that as leader of the opposition, he expects to come back stronger in Turkey's next elections, whenever they may be.
A center-right coalition between Mrs. Ciller and Mr. Yilmaz would not have a clear parliamentary majority, since each party commands only 20 percent of the seats. Mrs. Ciller said today that she is not worried about the strength of the Welfare opposition, but about getting the support from Turkey's other parliamentary parties to sustain an effective government.
"We have to be successful in the coalition," she said, noting that Welfare's 158 seats would not be able to determine the majority on issues. "What is relevant is getting the support, as minority or majority government, from the other parties," including those on the left.
Mrs. Ciller came to Rome on a one-day diplomatic mission, to enlist the support of the Italian Government, which now holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, to counter efforts by Greece to block European aid to Turkey. The Greek effort to block the $487 million aid package -- part of a customs union agreement that went into effect on Jan. 1 -- came after the two countries almost went to war this month over a small uninhabited outcropping of rock in the Aegean Sea.
Mrs. Ciller again appealed for direct negotiations with Greece over the disputed islets, as well as a long list of other issues that continue to cloud relations between the two NATO members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%); GREECE (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); ROME, ITALY (71%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (61%); ISLAMIC WELFARE PARTY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAMIC WELFARE PARTY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; TURKEY (96%); GREECE (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); ROME, ITALY (71%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); 

PERSON: YILMAZ, MESUT; CILLER, TANSU (PRIME MIN); BOHLEN, CELESTINE TANSU CILLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



714 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

AT&T to Offer Customers Free Internet Access
AT&T, pushing aggressively into the Internet business, said it would offer its telephone customers five hours of free Internet access each month for a year.
In addition, beginning next month AT&T said it would offer its residential customers unlimited Internet access, including electronic mail and nationwide phone directory services, for less than $20 a month. [Page A1.]
 
$16 Million for AT&T Chief
Robert E. Allen, AT&T's chairman and chief executive, who is now cutting 40,000 people from the payroll, got stock options last year that brought his total pay package to $16 million from $6.7 million. The company said he and other top executives could not cash their options for at least four years. [D7.]
 
Stocks Slide on Rate Fears
The Dow industrials lost 15.89 points, closing at 5,549.21, in volatile trading that saw a drop of more than 50 points during the day. Traders were nervous about rising interest rates. The Nasdaq composite index fell 6.88 points. [D8.]
 
Bond prices fell for the third consecutive day, sending the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond up slightly to 6.47 percent. [D18.]
 
Money Floods Into Mutual Funds
Net inflows to stock and bond mutual funds totaled a record $33.3 billion in January, and investors have continued to pour money into funds this month. [D2.]
 
For Wal-Mart, a Down Quarter
Wal-Mart Stores, after 99 quarters of rising earnings, missed No. 100. The retailer reported a 9 percent slide to $942 million, or 41 cents a share, for its fiscal fourth quarter ended Jan. 31. But Wall Street had been prepared for a drop, and the stock gave up only 12.5 cents to end at $21.625. Still, some analysts see challenges ahead. Market Place. [D8.]
 
More Unraveling at Barney's
In the latest unraveling of a Barney's business relationship since the retailer filed for bankruptcy protection, the co-chairmen of Barneys New York will sell their half-interest in a restaurant in the Madison Avenue store run by Pino Luongo. [D8.]
 
Court Lifts Novo Nordisk Injunction
Novo Nordisk, a biotechnology company based in Denmark, said a Federal Appeals Court had reversed an injunction that had blocked American sales of a genetically engineered human growth hormone made by Novo Nordisk. [D4.]
 
Orange County Wooing Wall St.
Orange County, Calif., courted Wall Street, seeking an investment-grade rating for about $830 million in new debt that the bankrupt county plans to issue in May. [D7.]
 
Why Not Ms. Chairwoman?
Why aren't women ruling the corporate world? A survey found that women climbing the corporate ladder blamed male stereotyping. But male chief executives cited too little time in the pipeline. [D2.]
 
Buzz, a Selling Bee for Flora
To encourage people to buy flowers, the National Promoflor Council has engaged Deutsch Inc., a brash New York ad agency. It has dreamed up Buzz, a portly young man who will serve as a Johnny Appleseed for flora in a two-year campaign with a $20 million budget. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D4.]
 
V-Chip Passing Canadian Test
Canadians testing a chip to block violence on television, the V-chip, are singing its praises. Similar chips are to be required on sets sold in the United States in two years. [A1.]
 


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,549.21, down 15.89
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.47%, up 0.02
The Dollar -- 104.35 yen, down 0.10
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
U.S. Balance of Trade
 January figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$7.1 billion
 
Consumer Price Index
 January figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (67%); NVO (NYSE) (52%); NOVO.B (CPH) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (67%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (67%); NOVO NORDISK AS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNET & WWW (91%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAILERS (86%); INJUNCTIONS (84%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BOND FUNDS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WOMEN (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); COUNTIES (60%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



715 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
CUBAN JOY AT DOWNING PLANES?
The United States released transcripts of aerial radio conversations before Cuba shot down two civilian planes, and American officials said the transcripts reflected glee at making a hit. A1
 
CUBAN-AMERICAN GROUP'S TACTICS
The group whose planes were shot down by Cuba reflects the shift in Cuban-American tactics from crude military actions of the past to nonviolent but aggressive methods of protest. A1
 
CANADA TESTING THE V-CHIP
The United States has new legislation requiring a device to let viewers block out violence and sex on television, and such a device has been tested in Canada for the past year, with favorable results. A2
 
PALESTINIANS HOLD MILITANTS
The Palestinian police rounded up militants after suicide bombings, and Israel said that another episode appeared to be an attack, as Israel met with Yasir Aarafat to warn him of a crackdown. A3
 
Unease in the refugee camp where suspected bombers lived. A3
 
EASTERN ORTHODOX SCHISM
The Russian Orthodox Church severed ties with Constantinople, historic center of Eastern Orthodoxy, in a split that reflects the national conflicts in Eastern Europe since Communism's collapsed. A4
 
TURKISH LEADER READY TO DEAL
Turkey's Prime Minister said she was ready to make concessions to form a coalition with a rival, after he came close to forming a government with the Islamic party that won parliamentary elections. A8
 
In Bosnia, mixed feelings as former enemies come together. A8
 
Bellinzona Journal: Banking headache for poor Alpine cousin. A4
 
National A10-15, B6-7
 
FORBES AND DOLE VICTORIOUS
Steve Forbes was the acknowledged winner of the Arizona primary, his first triumph of the 1996 campaign, while Bob Dole won primaries in North and South Dakota, his first victories since the Iowa caucuses. The results threw the race into further disarray. A1
 
ANGRY RESPONSE TO FOX TV
A day after the Fox network said it would give free time to Presidential candidates, the other networks, off the record, criticized Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of Fox's parent, as "grandstanding." A1
 
ALEXANDERS' PATH TO WEALTH
With help from politically connected friends, Lamar Alexander and his wife were able to increase their wealth through a few exceptionally successful investments. B6
 
G.O.P. IN CONGRESS STEPS UP
Congressional Republicans sought to reclaim their party's agenda, insisting on the need for budget balancing and tax cutting. A1
 
AT&T'S BIG INTERNET PUSH
AT&T will offer its phone customers five hours of free Internet access each month for a year, in a move that brings computer networks closer to becoming a utility like electricity or water. A1
 
BEHIND THE TABLE
People like Jan Craven, a blackjack dealer aboard a riverboat casino in Illinois, have helped ignite the boom in a business that has spread across the nation. A10
 
HERESY HEARING IN DELAWARE
In a Delaware church, nine Episcopal Church bishops began to consider whether a bishop who ordained a gay man as a deacon should be tried by the church as a heretic. A10
 
SUSPECTS ORDERED TO DENVER
A Federal judge ordered Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols, the defendants in the Federal Building bombing, moved to Denver to await trial there. A10
 
NAFTA COMPLAINT HEARD
The Labor Department heard a complaint filed by Mexico under Nafta over Sprint's dismissal in 994 of 235 Hispanic workers in the course of closing down a site. A11
 
LITTLE RISK IN IMPLANTS SEEN
A large study of silicone breast implants found that if implants pose any health risk at all, it is a very small one. A12
 
The President urged Congress to amend an abortion bill.A13
 
NASA communicated the satellite that broke from the shuttle. A15
 
Education B8
 
Conservatives hope Utah's stance against gay clubs will spread.
 
Metro Report B1-5
 
PATAKI ADVISER SUBPOENAED
The Democratic-controlled Assembly issued subpoenas to Governor Pataki's top economic adviser and a private lawyer, seeking information about the corporation that financed Mr. Pataki's three-day inauguration last year. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
Star power and box office. C11
 
Theater: "Scenes From an Execution." C11
 
Film: "Target." C18
 
Music: The Pop Life C11
 
American Composers Orchestra. C14
 
From Continuum. C16
 
Wynton Marsalis. C17
 
Dance: Cuban National Folkloric Dance Ensemble. C16
 
Books: "Love Thy Neighbor," by Peter Maass. C17
 
Television: "The New Explorers." C18
 
The Living Section C1-8
 
Stretching muscles and not wallets. C1
 
Health Page C9
 
Quality of life in old age depends more on habits than on genes. C9
 
Personal Health: Treating carpal tunnel syndrome. C9
 
Sports B9-14
 
Baseball: Rough day for Gooden and Key. B11
 
Flora is ready to play for Mets. B11
 
Basketball: Starks criticizes Nelson. B9
 
Underdogs not always overmatched. B9
 
Heat gets best of Nets. B10
 
Columns: Vecsey on the Nets B9
 
Araton on figure skating B14
 
Hockey: Gretzky traded to Blues. B9
 
Messier hurt as Rangers lose. B11
 
Islanders fall to Red Wings. B11
 
Obituaries D20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Terror in Israel.
 
Extend the Whitewater inquiry.
 
Less booze at "Police Week."
 
Glaxo's trade loophole.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: J-a-p-a-n and C-h-i-n-a.
 
Frank Rich: The V-chip G-string.
 
Drew L. Kershen: Justice denied in Oklahoma.
 
Kenneth R. Timmerman: Nuclear middlemen.
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TURKEY (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE AMERICAN GROUP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TURKEY (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRANSCRIPTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); POLITICS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); REFUGEES (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CAUCUSES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (67%); TAX LAW (64%); GAMING (61%); CASINOS (61%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (60%); 

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



716 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Still Talking About Tax Cuts, Congress Goes Back to Work

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27

 BODY:
Congressional Republicans sought today to reclaim their party's agenda from the rhetoric of its Presidential campaign, insisting that what the economy needed was old-fashioned budget balancing and tax cutting.
Congress returned to Washington after a three-week vacation when the Presidential hopefuls from its ranks fared badly in the campaign. But one element of Capitol Hill Republican orthodoxy, tax cuts, seemed sure to survive both the upsets of the primaries and the new political buzzwords of "layoffs" and "corporate responsibility." 
 Arguing that the economy was suffering only from "the Clinton crunch" of tax increases adopted in 1993, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, scoffed at the campaign trail invocations of job insecurity and foreign trade barriers as merely "all that noise."
Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, denounced Patrick J. Buchanan's call for a halt to most legal immigration as "a very unfortunate play to base emotions." Mr. Simpson added, "It's racist."
Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia told reporters this morning that he favored attaching a tax cut to a bill to raise the statutory ceiling on the Federal debt. "The failing Clinton economy is hurting people," Mr. Gingrich said. "I think we need something to stimulate and create jobs and keep from a recession."
The Speaker later revived the idea of a deal with the Administration on balancing the budget. "It seems to me possible that there could be an Administration agreement to get a balanced budget deal in the next couple of weeks," he said. But Senate aides familiar with the budget process said they had seen no recent progress suggesting that an agreement was any more likely than it had been since talks broke down in early January.
Another member of the House Republican leadership said Mr. Gingrich had told the group that President Clinton had telephoned him to suggest that they make one more try to reach agreement. At the White House, aides were hopeful that the discussions would lead somewhere.
One central Congressional figure who held back from comments on economic policy was Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader. Paying a brief visit to the Capitol before leaving to campaign in South Carolina for the Republican Presidential nomination, he said he did not know what the budget situation was but planned to talk to Mr. Gingrich on Wednesday.
A very different note was sounded by Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, who argued in a speech today "the era of deficit politics is over."
In a speech to the Economic Strategy Institute, a think tank, Mr. Gephardt said that agreement on a balanced budget could be reached next year if it was not accomplished in 1996. But far more central to Americans, he said, was the need for policies that would reward hard work because "wages have been falling for more than 16 years."
While praising Mr. Buchanan for discerning the pain of American workers, Mr. Gephardt scoffed at his solutions as blaming "our problems on immigrants, the poor, people of different ethnicities and genders."
And he asked "How can someone who opposes the minimum wage, opposes health and safety standards and opposes family leave even pretend to stand for the American worker?"
"We are living through an economic earthquake as titanic and transforming as the Industrial Revolution," Mr. Gephardt said. "For many Americans, just staying in place means a never-ending scramble of longer hours, second jobs and credit card debt. But our political system hasn't done a damn thing about it."
Mr. Armey, in a speech to the conservative Heritage Foundation, promised Republicans would take nine steps to help the economy. Besides the tax cuts on capital gains and for working families with children, he promised legislation to protect pensions, to make health insurance portable when changing jobs and to restrict the ability of labor unions to use dues for purposes other than collective bargaining.
Promising to move to avote on a constitutional amendment that would require a super majority vote to raise Federal taxes, Mr. Armey was caustic about the campaign, saying: "Political discourse is not tied in any ironclad way to the spirit of devotion to the truth. One should not rely too heavily on either words or numbers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before returning to the campaign trail, Senator Bob Dole, left, met on Capitol Hill yesterday with other Senate Republicans, to the right, William Cohen, John Chafee, Don Nickles and Larry Pressler. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); ARMEY, DICK (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



717 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Don't Allow Cuban Exiles to Make U.S. Policy;
Castro's Decision

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The problem with having an outcast in your neighborhood is highlighted by the downing of two aircraft by an isolated and obsolete Cuban regime. 
 Political realities have long prevented a rational discussion of how we might bring Cuba into the post-cold-war world.
I offer the following modest proposal: The President should announce that United States citizens and corporations may openly and freely trade with any Cuban company whose ownership is substantially private in nature.
This would clearly state our position and would put the ball in Fidel Castro's court.
The proposal indicates that some form of private or mixed ownership is a condition to be met before more normal relations.
An improved economic arrangement would benefit the Cuban people and could break the logjam in United States-Cuban relations. Under this policy, trade can be as open as Cuba wants it to be.
 
JOHN R. NASH
Smyrna, Ga., Feb. 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

ORGANIZATION: BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); COLD WAR (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIRLINES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); 

PERSON: NASH, JOHN R FIDEL CASTRO (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996



718 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Is Cool to Democrats' Ideas on Shielding U.S. Workers

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today gently flicked cold water on recent proposals by Congressional Democrats to change the tax laws in order to encourage business to treat workers better.
Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chief economic adviser at the White House, said at a daylong forum run by Senate Democrats, "The President believes that the best approach is to challenge companies to be good corporate citizens." 
 The White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said, "The President wants to move forward" on measures he has proposed, like raising the minimum wage, protecting pensions, and making health insurance portable from job to job.
Complaints about layoffs and stagnant wages have been dramatized by Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican Presidential candidate. But just as his party's leaders in Washington have snubbed his trade and immigration proposals as the wrong solutions when they already have the right economic answer in tax cuts, the Clinton Administration is brushing off the proposals offered by a variety of Democratic leaders in Congress.
The latest proposal came today from Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, head of a task force appointed by the Democratic Senate leader, Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota. He presented the forum with a plan to lower corporate taxes sharply for companies that provide their workers with pensions, education and training, health insurance and profit-sharing or stock purchase.
That is not all companies would have to do to qualify for the lower rates. Under Mr. Bingaman's plan corporations would also have to pay their bosses no more than 50 times as much as their lowest-paid worker, put at least half their new investment in research and development, keep 90 percent of new plant investment in the United States and maintain above-average or improving safety and environmental records.
When Dr. Tyson was asked specifically about the Bingaman proposal, she said she wanted to study all new ideas but felt that the Administration already had "a very ambitious legislative agenda." She cited the same wage, pension and insurance proposals Mr. McCurry was discussing with reporters at about the same time.
The plan got a slightly cheerier response from the last speaker at the forum in a Senate office building. Robert B. Reich, Secretary of Labor, said: "I think it's a very interesting proposal. It does have to be, obviously, analyzed and vetted like all proposals." Citing similar plans offered by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, Mr. Reich said, "There are a lot of interesting ideas out there that are the departure points for a conversation."
The Administration's reserved response came as no surprise to Congressional Democrats, who hope to build support in the nation first for their ideas. They think that if they do, the Administration will sooner or later follow the polls. After Dr. Tyson's presentation, Mr. Bingaman observed, "I don't think these ideas are going to go away."
Mr. Bingaman's plan, more detailed than those offered by other Democrats, would shift the basis of corporate taxation from income to a value-added basis, before establishing two rates, one for companies that look after their workers, and a higher one for those that do not. He also proposed a transfer tax on securities held for less than two years in order to encourage long-term investing and discourage short-range profit-seeking.
Both Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Gephardt have suggested reducing corporate income taxes for companies that do a series of things for their workers. Neither offered a list as detailed as Mr. Bingaman's.
But both were on hand today to cheer him on. Mr. Kennedy said Democrats hoped to put the issue "on the national agenda." Mr. Gephardt said he wished Congressional leaders and the President had spent as much time on this problem as they did on budget talks.
Mr. Daschle said, "The problem is very clear: as the stock market goes up, as the economy continues to grow, the realization is that a larger and larger percentage of working families are not experiencing the success of the economy over all."
Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota said corporate leaders would do well to start exercising "discipline and self-restraint" when it came to their own high salaries and other forms of compensation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); DEMOCRATIC SENATE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); DEMOCRATIC SENATE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; HEALTH INSURANCE US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); IMMIGRATION (54%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JEFF BINGAMAN (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



719 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Joseph Barr, 78, Bank Executive Who Held Several Federal Posts

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Joseph W. Barr, a former Treasury Secretary, Congressman and bank executive, died on Friday in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, where he was vacationing. He was 78 and lived in Hume, Va.
The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. 
 A Democrat, Mr. Barr began a decade of service in Washington in 1959, when he joined the House as a Representative from the 11th District of Indiana. He was defeated in his bid for re-election two years later, but remained in Washington as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Congressional Relations during the Kennedy Administration.
From 1963 to 1965 he was chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. He then returned to the Treasury Department as Under Secretary.
In the fall of 1968, after the resignation of Henry W. Fowler as Treasury Secretary, President Lyndon B. Johnson nominated Mr. Barr to replace him. He served in that position from December 1968 until President Richard M. Nixon took office in January 1969.
During his Government career, Mr. Barr helped to build the Asian Development Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
After leaving the Treasury Department, he joined the American Security and Trust Company, a leading Washington financial institution, as vice chairman. Later that year, he was named president, a post he held until 1972, when he became chairman.
He left American Security in 1974 after a dispute with fellow board members about the bank's strategy for long-term growth.
Later that year he served as head of the financially troubled Franklin National Bank of New York, but he left after some months when he determined that the bank's problems were beyond solution.
Born in Vincennes, Ind., on Jan. 17, 1918, Mr. Barr was educated at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and at Harvard University, where he earned a master's degree in theoretical economics.
After service in the Navy during World War II -- he earned a Bronze Star at the Anzio beachhead in Italy as commander of a submarine chaser -- he returned to Indiana to work in the family businesses, which included grain elevators, farm equipment financing and banking.
After leaving Franklin National, he retired to his farm in Hume.
Survivors include his wife of 57 years, the former Beth Ann Williston; a son, Joseph W., of Clifton, Va.; four daughters, Bonnie Gilliom of Atlanta, Cherry Ann Barr of Barnesville, Md., Elizabeth E. Stone of Hume and Lynn Barr of Ypsilanti, Mich.; a brother, John, of Champaign, Ill., and 17 grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%); FRANKLIN NATIONAL BANK (54%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FAMILY COMPANIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); NAVIES (67%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (65%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (63%); WORLD WAR II (62%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BARR, JOSEPH W; GILPIN, KENNETH N RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



720 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Solomon Asch Is Dead at 88; A Leading Social Psychologist

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
Solomon E. Asch, a pioneering social psychologist who studied how peer pressure shapes human behavior but believed that most people act decently when they are not shackled by ignorance, died on Feb. 20 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 88.
Dr. Asch had been an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania since 1979 and professor there from 1972 to 1979. From 1966 to 1972, he was director of the Institute for Cognitive Studies at Rutgers University, where he held the title distinguished professor of psychology. 
 Dr. Asch's early experiments on compliance -- the effects of social pressure on one's perception and interpretation of the world, and on how one forms impressions of others -- are widely recognized as among the century's seminal studies in social psychology. His 1952 textbook, "Social Psychology," was reissued in 1987 by Oxford University Press.
In 1951, in a classic study of conformity, Dr. Asch asked students to participate in what he called "an experiment in perceptual judgment." Those taking part were asked to say which one of three lines on cards in front of them was the same length as a standard line, also on display.
Each time the experiment was run, one student heard the others choose a line obviously shorter or longer than the standard. Faced with unanimity among peers, the student would become uncomfortable and, about a third of the time, go along with them.
The uncomfortable student was actually the subject of the experiment, and those who chose lines shorter or longer than the standard were the professor's confederates.
In recounting that experiment, Dr. Asch told colleagues that the idea for it had grown out of his early childhood in Poland. As a boy of 7, he stayed up late for his first Passover night. He saw his grandmother pour an extra glass of wine and asked whom it was for.
For the prophet Elijah, an uncle told him.
"Will he really take a sip?" the boy asked.
"Oh, yes," the uncle replied. "You just watch when the time comes."
Filled with the sense of suggestion and expectation, the boy thought he saw the level of wine in the cup drop just a bit.
Early in World War II, when Hitler was at the height of his power, Dr. Asch, then a professor in Brooklyn College's psychology department, studied the effects of propaganda and indoctrination. Propaganda is most effective, he concluded, when fear and ignorance mix. "But the human mind," he added, is "an organ for the discovery of truths rather than of falsehoods."
Prof. Henry Gleitman of the University of Pennsylvania's psychology department said Dr. Asch was a man who understood better than most how individuals can do regrettable things in the desire to get along but who nonetheless thought that "people would behave humanely, morally, if appropriately informed."
Dr. Asch's early experiments in conformity formed much of the basis for studies of the depersonalizing aspects of modern American life, particularly big-city life. After Kitty Genovese was stabbed to death on a Queens street in 1964 while more than 30 of her neighbors ignored her cries for help, social psychologists conducted experiments in which they found that a person who was alone was more likely to come to the aid of a stranger in distress than was a person in the company of others.
Dr. Asch received numerous awards and fellowships, and was the author of dozens of books and articles. Yet he was disdainful of American academia's "publish or perish" ethos, recalled Prof. John Sabini, the chairman of the psychology department at the University of Pennsylvania. Professor Sabini said Dr. Asch had once asked, "Would it have made any difference if Thomas Aquinas had published five years later?"
Solomon Asch was born in Warsaw and came to the United States when he was about 13. He lived on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and learned English by reading Charles Dickens. He graduated from the City College of New York in 1928 and earned a master's degree from Columbia University in 1930 and his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1932.
Surviving are his wife of 65 years, Florence; a brother, Paul, of Los Angeles; two grandsons, Eric, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and David, of Silver Spring, Md.; a granddaughter, Laurie, of Silver Spring, and a great-grandson, Peter, of Silver Spring. Dr. Asch's son, Peter, a professor of economics at Rutgers, died in 1990. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); POLAND (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); POLAND (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PSYCHOLOGY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: ASCH, SOLOMON E (DR); STOUT, DAVID SOLOMON E ASCH (97%); JOHN SABINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



721 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Castro's China Model

BYLINE: By Tad Szulc; Tad Szulc is author of "Fidel: A Critical Portrait."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For a year or so, President Fidel Castro has been relaxing Cuba's rigidly controlled economy, inviting foreign investment under highly favorable terms, visiting Europe and Latin America to woo political support and making life easier for the Roman Catholic Church. A few weeks ago, he released three political prisoners to a visiting member of Congress, who took them to Miami. It was beginning to look as if Mr. Castro, who is 69, was finally mellowing.
But on Saturday, his jets shot down two small unarmed civilian planes flown by members of Brothers to the Rescue, an anti-Castro group based in Miami, as they approached or entered Cuban air space. Earlier in the week, security services in Havana detained many leaders and members of Concilio Cubano, an umbrella organization of small opposition groups, which had planned to hold its first convention. 
 Are Mr. Castro's actions contradictory? No. They are wholly consistent with those of his 37-year reign. He is determined not to tolerate any challenge to his authority, internal or external, whatever the consequences. Mr. Castro evidently concluded that the seemingly harmless Concilio Cubano was a potential threat. And dangerous doubts about his grip on power could be raised if Brothers to the Rescue, which in the past has dropped anti-Castro leaflets on Havana, continued breaching the island's defenses.
Mr. Castro, who visited China in December for the first time, is increasingly applying what Cuban officials tell me is the "China model." In his view, China has come up with the perfect solution for the survival of a "socialist revolutionary" society: Create a market economy, with large-scale foreign investment, while brutally forbidding political freedom. Mr. Castro has often said he wants to avoid the mistakes of Mikhail Gorbachev, who he thinks brought about the collapse of the Soviet Union by permitting both economic reform and political liberalization.
Mr. Castro's two-track policy has apparently been successful. After hitting bottom in 1993, the economy has been reviving. The Government says that at the end of 1995 there were 212 agreements with foreign investors, who have pumped $2.1 billion into 34 areas of the economy, especially the tourism industry.
The punitive measures President Clinton has announced are virtually meaningless. Preventing Miami-Havana charter flights and suspending telephone connections will hurt Cubans on the island more than the regime, and the loss of revenue to Cuba will be negligible. President Clinton and Congress agreed yesterday on new sanctions that would hamper foreign investment. But this legislation is bound to anger our allies and would be hard to defend under international law.
Finally, Mr. Castro retains the "rafter" weapon. Last year, in response to exiles who hijacked Cuban coastal vessels, he let tens of thousands of Cubans leave on rafts and small boats -- until Washington agreed to prevent the hijackings. If the overflights by Brothers to the Rescue continue, Mr. Castro may pursue that strategy again.
President Clinton can try to penalize the Cuban leader, but he should understand that Mr. Castro is utterly inflexible. Realizing that he faces no real threat from the United States, Mr. Castro will continue to woo foreign investors and bar dissent.
In this election year, Mr. Clinton cannot be perceived as showing weakness. But there are no simple solutions in sight. Mr. Clinton must realize that, unfortunately, Mr. Castro has more leverage than he does.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (60%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: ;BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE (ORGN) PREVENTING MIAMI-HAVANA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CHINA; ; CHINA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (60%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); REFUGEES (77%); TRENDS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); HIJACKING (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (58%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: SZULC, TAD; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (93%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



722 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: President Of Retailing Chains Quits

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
In what many analysts say might signal a larger, imminent change in the Dayton Hudson Corporation's department-store unit, the company announced yesterday that the president of the unit had resigned.
Stephen E. Watson, 51, will be replaced by Linda L. Ahlers, 45, who has spent most of her career at the company. 
 Several analysts said that Mr. Watson might have felt that the future was uncertain for the division, which consists of 64 Dayton's, Hudson's and Marshall Field's stores, and that he might have chosen to leave before the unit was sold or spun off. Dayton Hudson's other units are Mervyn's off-price apparel stores, and Target, a fast-growing discount chain.
"He wanted out," said Kurt Barnard, editor of Barnard's Retail and Marketing Report. "This unit can't leverage its costs and productivity and no doubt it is nearing the end of its days. It will be divorced from the company."
Mr. Watson did not return calls seeking comment. Company executives have repeatedly denied that a sale of any division is in the offing.
The department store unit has had a poor showing for more than a year, with weak same-store sales as well as operating profits that declined last year to $158 million from $270 million in 1994. Further, the company is highly leveraged, with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 62 percent. The industry average is closer to 50 percent. The company had said last month that it expected earnings for the fourth quarter, which ended in January, to fall 21 percent, to $3 a share, from $3.81 in the comparable period last year.
At the core of Dayton Hudson's weakness are the company's department stores, which Wall Street has urged the company to unload for some time. As the department-store business becomes increasingly consolidated, analysts argue that there is little room for small players that have neither economies of scale nor other competitive advantages to counter the move of giants like Federated Department Stores or the May Department Stores Company.
What the company should and may do, analysts say, is pare down to its best part: Target, the discount chain the country increasingly flocks to for contact lens solution, Dustbusters and sweat shirts.
"Wall Street has said it wants to own stand-alone retailers," said Robert F. Buchanan, a retail analyst at NatWest Securities, "not big conglomerates with questionable synergies."
Ms. Ahlers might be able to draw on the expertise she has picked up in various positions in the Target division and as executive vice president for merchandising at the department-store unit, her most recent job.
"My priority will be to continue to emphasize better merchandise," Ms. Ahlers said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters in Minneapolis. "It will be a repositioning back to our heritage as a fine department store."
But many on Wall Street seem to think the department-store unit cannot survive unless it gets a buyer.
"It has been a miserable year for them and I think that that had to take a toll at the top," Mr. Buchanan said. "Clearly, to the extent that she can't shore this thing up, the department-store division becomes even more of an acquisition target."
Dayton Hudson's shares rose 37.5 cents yesterday, to $74.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (96%); M (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (96%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (96%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DAYTON HUDSON CORP TARGET CORP (96%); MACY'S INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAYTON HUDSON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (50%); 

PERSON: WATSON, STEPHEN E; AHLERS, LINDA L; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER STEPHEN E WATSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



723 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Stormy End Of Drought Is Unfolding In Nevada

BYLINE: By MIKE J. YBARRA 

DATELINE: RENO, Feb. 28

 BODY:
Water has always been scarce in Nevada, which gets six inches of rain in a good year. Not a single river crosses the whole state. The runoff from the Sierra Nevada piddles into two sizable lakes or evaporates in the desert.
The last eight years have marked the longest drought on record. Reno has undergone two years of water restrictions that have changed the face of this improbably leafy desert city: lawns have died, golf courses have browned. Instead of rushing through the heart of town, the Truckee River, which carries 80 percent of Reno's water from Lake Tahoe, is down to a trickle. 
 But the dry spell could be near an end. The Sierra snowpack, which supplies Lake Tahoe with most of its water, is more than 16 percent deeper than normal. Ten feet of snow has been dumped in the mountains above Reno over the last week alone. "And it's still snowing," exulted Mike Turnipseed, a state water engineer.
Last year, twice the normal amount of snow and rain fell in the mountains, enough to replenish the surface water lost over eight years but not underground water, like wells, whose levels have dropped as much as 25 feet.
With a month to go, the current rainy season has been a whopper, compared with the typical year. Lake Tahoe, where the water level had remained three feet below normal for several years, is now two feet above average. Last week, water had to be released from a reservoir atop the Carson River to prevent flooding. Even Las Vegas got a dusting of snow a few days ago.
Still, John James, the state climatologist and a geography professor at the University of Nevada in Reno, said he would not recommend to the Governor that the drought be declared officially over until after a snow survey on April 1, by which time the state is likely to have all the snow it is going to get.
Locally, Mr. James is famous as a pessimist. Residents joke that even Noah floating by would not convince him that the drought was over. "We have to be realistic," he countered in an interview. "We're in a desert."
That desert grew substantially during the last eight years of drought. Walker Lake dropped more than 25 feet, increasing its salinity so much that 90 percent of hatchling fish introduced during that period died. Officials expected the lake to become a dead zone. The river's normal flow is allocated to agricultural uses; the lake gets the leftovers, which until the recent storms had been nonexistent.
Pyramid Lake, the terminus of the Truckee River, has also been drying up, its level dropping 100 feet this century and threatening the survival of the cui-ui, a prehistoric fish that lives only there. The new, thick snowpack in the Sierra, while improving the situation, will not cure it, since Nevada is the nation's driest and fastest growing state.
Las Vegas, whose annual growth rate exceeds 10 percent, has the least rainfall in the nation but the highest per capita water consumption.
Water economy has been a latecomer to the region. Homes built in Reno before 1988 do not have water meters, and it was not until 1993 that a law required new residences to have low-flow showerheads.
The drought, for practically the first time since settlers began tapping into the Truckee almost 150 years ago, has led to the first water conservation measures in the history of the state. "It's really turned people to thinking, 'What should we do?' " Mr. James said. "It's been beneficial in that way at least."
Weather here, after all, is more often cruel than kind: in the last 125 years there have only been two consecutive wet years. "It's so ungodly unusual that you have to make book on the fact that next year will be a dry one," said Mr. James, who compared the last two winters to a jackpot on a slot machine. Sooner or later, he added, "Another drought is around the corner."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Heavy snow over the last week created problems for people like Fedrico Ramirez in Truckee, Calif. But the snow was a good sign for Nevadans, who hoped that runoff from the Sierra Nevada would end a long drought.; Recent storms, including a rare snowfall in Las Vegas, Nev., where 5-year-old Angela Bucher built a snowman, are raising water levels and hopes that an eight-year drought in Nevada is coming to an end. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Nevada highlighting Reno: Snow around Lake Tahoe offered hope to drought-stricken Reno.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RENO, NV, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (98%); NEVADA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; DROUGHT; RAIN; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FLOODS WEATHER (91%); LAKES (91%); DROUGHT (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (79%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (72%); DESERTS (72%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: YBARRA, MICHAEL J JOHN JAMES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



724 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Agency Votes To Start Talks On Lilco Plan

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., Feb. 28

 BODY:
Determined to cut the highest electric bills in the continental United States, a state agency voted today to begin negotiations to replace the Long Island Lighting Company with a hybrid public-private system.
The plan's sponsor, Gov. George E. Pataki, immediately hailed the 13-to-2 vote by the agency, the Long Island Power Authority. "I'm convinced it's for real, and it's going to happen," Mr. Pataki said. "Long Islanders have suffered too long." 
 Lilco's chairman, William J. Catacosinos, who has criticized the plan, nevertheless called for "a cooperative dialogue" and said Lilco's goals were to lower rates and protect its employees, stockholders and the reliability of the Island's electric system. If talks with Lilco fail, James F. Gill, the authority's chairman, warned, the authority could start condemnation proceedings to seize it.
After a decade of failed attempts at taking over the troubled utility, there is a growing feeling among public officials and industry experts that this time is different.
"There's definitely a more concerted and realistic effort," said Steven I. Fleishman, vice president of Dean Witter Reynolds. But he cautioned that "these are going to be some very tough negotiations." Even a critic of the plan, Matthew T. Crosson, the president of the Long Island Association, a business group, said:
"We have some momentum going, and we shouldn't lose that. Let's get on with it."
The stakes are high and reach far beyond the 2.7 million people that Lilco serves in Nassau and Suffolk counties and in the Rockaways in Queens. For Governor Pataki, his re-election could hinge on Lilco's fate since Long Island voters provided much of his margin of victory last year.
"Certainly, the Governor has put his reputation on the line and pulled in his chits from Nassau and Suffolk," said Ashok Gupta, an energy economist for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. A Republican consultant, speaking on the condition that he not be named, said, "We had the hand grenade of Lilco, and we passed it to the Governor."
Wall Street and the utility industry are also monitoring the takeover effort. Lilco would be the largest private utility eliminated by government, experts say, and the initial financing would require the biggest municipal bond sale in history, $4.5 billion, generating tens of millions of dollars in fees. An additional $2.25 billion would be financed later. Business leaders on Long Island, which was battered by the recession, say the revival of the Island's economy depends on relief from high utility rates.
But even if rates are cut by the 12 to 21 percent that proponents predict, frustrated Long Islanders are still likely to pay the highest or second highest electric rates in the country, outside of Hawaii. Lilco rates are double the national average. A typical bill for a Long Island home is about $100 a month.
Most of the projected savings comes from two bookkeeping maneuvers: refinancing Lilco's debt with tax-exempt bonds and avoiding Federal taxes on the public part of the proposed system.
The plan is complex, splitting Lilco into several entities, with the Power Authority running the distribution system. The approval process is fraught with hazards, requiring agreement not only from Lilco's 93,000 stockholders but also from a host of state and Federal agencies.
Although the proposal is a departure from past plans, the biggest difference is its unlikely sponsor -- Mr. Pataki, a conservative Republican who normally extols privatization, not government intervention.
As a candidate, he denounced Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's last Lilco takeover bid at the close of the 1994 campaign. Once in office, Mr. Pataki derided a revised plan from Richard M. Kessel, a Cuomo holdover on the Long Island Power Authority.
But now, Mr. Pataki has made the Lilco problem his problem. That move is both a political gamble and a necessity, given that his earliest backers were Long Island Republican leaders.
"He has always been good to Suffolk," said the county Republican chairman, John Powell, "and Suffolk has been good to him."
Under its plan, the Long Island Power Authority would assume $6.75 billion of Lilco debt, mostly for the never-opened Shoreham nuclear power plant. The authority would hire a company to run the electric lines and customer service.
Lilco would sell its gas operations, and its power plants would be divided among four or five companies. Keeping private ownership and adding competition allow Mr. Pataki to distinguish his plan from the Democratic versions he scorned.
When Mr. Gill, the authority's chairman, first estimated that the plan would cut electric rates at least 12 percent -- from refinancing debt and tax savings -- Long Islanders showed little enthusiasm. Then, he stressed that the ultimate savings could be 21 percent or more from efficiencies, savings from competition and a five-year rate freeze that, after inflation, would effectively be a cut.
Experts say there is little room for cost cutting. Lilco's transmission lines have limited capacity to import cheaper hydroelectric power. Its generators use gas and oil instead of cheaper coal. It pays the nation's highest property taxes and has a big debt because of Shoreham. And its large residential base requires an unusually big capacity to meet peak air-conditioning demand.
For three decades, electrical and political power have intertwined on Long Island. In the 1970's and 80's, protests rose against the Shoreham plant over its cost, which spiraled 20-fold, and its safety. In a court case, a jury found that Lilco had lied about Shoreham.
As anger at Lilco grew, it became a political whipping boy. Last year, the Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney, a Republican, ran for re-election with a commercial vowing that "I'll stop Lilco dead in its tracks." Democrats dreamed up a line on the ballot for the Ratepayers Against Lilco Party.
"Somebody once said you could use the Shoreham plant as a retirement residence for all the people who were either elected or defeated because of it," said Irving Like, a lawyer and longtime Lilco critic.
Lilco is the Island's biggest property taxpayer -- $308 million in 1994. But some of that reflected Suffolk's overassessments on the Shoreham plant. Lilco has begun winning refunds in court, and legal experts say the final amount could be $500 million.
Suffolk officials sought to resolve their tax problem through the Lilco takeover, with provisos canceling the refunds or stretching them over 30 years. But Nassau officials argued that their residents, who paid the excess taxes in their electric rates, deserved a faster rebate.
Last week, with the feud jeopardizing the Governor's plan, Mr. Pataki's aides summoned the two County Executives to the Governor's office to work out their differences.
Mr. Kessel, who opposes the Governor's plan and has one of his own, predicts many changes before an agreement is reached on a plan
"We are doing a takeover dance here, and everybody is trying to stake out a position," he said. "The bottom line is people want to know that if they put their English muffin in the toaster in the morning, it works -- and that their electric bill is not more than their mortgage payment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (57%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CATACOSINOS, WILLIAM J (DR) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); WILLIAM J CATACOSINOS (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



725 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Climbs Against the Mark On Hopes for German Rate Cut

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar climbed against the German mark yesterday on growing hopes for another cut in German interest rates.
The mark also lost ground to the yen and higher-yielding European currencies like the Italian lira. 
 The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, cut rates in December to bolster the German economy. The Bundesbank's policy makers meet again today. While many traders have been betting that the central bank will hold rates steady, rates are expected to fall eventually.
"People are starting to refocus on the possibility of the Bundesbank cutting interest rates again, maybe not tomorrow but within the next few weeks," said Chris Iggo, an international economist at Chase Manhattan Bank.
A report in Bild, a German newspaper, also put pressure on the mark by drawing attention to Germany's weak labor market.
Rudolf Scharping, head of the Social Democrats, Germany's opposition party, was quoted as saying he had "reliable information" that unemployment would rise sharply in February.
The dollar's rise above 1.46 marks fueled the rally by setting off traders' previously set orders to buy.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 1.4671 marks, up from 1.4521 marks on Tuesday. The dollar also rose to 104.53 Japanese yen from 104.35 yen. The British pound fell to $1.5338 from $1.5395.
The dollar was bolstered against the yen on the news that the United States trade deficit with Japan narrowed last year for the first annual decline in four years.
In addition, there was talk yesterday that the Bank of Japan was considering further buying of dollars for yen.
Traders estimated the Bank of Japan may have already spent $6 billion to $10 billion to defend the dollar since last week.
"The market is nervous about intervention," said Steve Barrow, an economist at the Chemical Bank in London.
Dollar strength also reflected mark losses against other currencies, particularly the yen.
Predictions for lower German rates contrast with the view that rock-bottom Japanese rates have nowhere to go but up. If the difference between German and Japanese rates should narrow, that would tend to make the yen more attractive to investors.
"You can maybe make the argument just based on short-term rate differentials that it's worth going the other way," said Kevin Weir, a vice president of institutional foreign exchange sales at the ABN-Amro Bank, referring to switching to yen from marks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); CHEMICAL BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (98%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (93%); GERMAN MARK (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BRITISH POUND (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



726 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: New Leader For Kennedy Arts Center

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
James A. Johnson, a Minnesotan who has had successful careers in politics and business, has been selected as chairman of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, a Clinton Administration official said tonight.
The appointment is to be formally announced on Thursday. Mr. Johnson will succeed James D. Wolfensohn, who had intended to continue as the center's chairman after assuming the presidency of the World Bank last year but decided later that he could not do both jobs. 
 The job at the Kennedy Center, Washington's most visible performing arts showcase, will be Mr. Johnson's first major position in the arts. Mr. Wolfensohn had been chairman of Carnegie Hall.
Mr. Johnson, 52, is currently chairman of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, a federally chartered but private company that markets mortgages.
A friend of Mr. Johnson's who spoke on the condition of anonymity said tonight that he would stay at Fannie Mae and make the Kennedy Center his principal outside activity.
In the past Mr. Johnson has been active in Democratic politics, having been chairman of Vice President Walter F. Mondale's unsuccessful campaign for President in 1984. He joined the Wall Street firm of Shearson Lehman Hutton as a managing partner after that election, and left active politics after taking the Fannie Mae job in 1990.
John Reilly, a Washington lawyer, said of Mr. Johnson at the time of his Fannie Mae appointment, "He's a spectacular manager, an anticipatory manager, a guy who thinks four steps ahead of everybody."
The Kennedy Center has been strapped for money in recent years. Besides trying to shore up its finances, Mr. Johnson will have to deal with criticism from some people in the Washington arts and in government that the center's artistic influence has declined in recent years.
Livingston L. Biddle, a Washington arts patron and former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, said that the center's founding chairman, Roger Stevens, "gave it an identity that was very special."
"Since then," Mr. Biddle said, "I think the Kennedy Center has not adhered to the same high standard that it had at the very beginning."
The Kennedy Center, now celebrating its 25th anniversary, has three main auditoriums -- the Opera House, Symphony Hall and Eisenhower Theater -- and is the home of both the Washington Opera and the National Symphony Orchestra. It also presents drama, music and dance by touring companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: MOLOTSKY, IRVIN; JOHNSON, JAMES A; WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



727 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Chile has a good private pension plan, but would it work here?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
AS goes Chile, so goes the world? While Chile's gross domestic product is smaller than Connecticut's, the born-again capitalist economy has a way of inspiring imitators. For along with having the fastest growth rate outside Asia, Chile is also the first to create a truly private social pension system. And the country's virtually painless transition from a bankrupt public pension system has policy wonks around the globe panting to learn the secret.
But the Chilean model probably will not travel as well as enthusiasts suggest -- at least not to the United States. While Chile's new social security system is working almost as well as advertised, the achievement has depended in part on circumstances that don't apply here. "They had a wide-open opportunity for a fresh start -- and we don't," said Lawrence White of the Stern School of Business at New York University. 
 Chile's half-century old "defined benefit" pension system collapsed under the weight of broken promises in 1981. "It was the first of its kind in the world and, by no coincidence, the first of its kind to collapse, said Karl Borden, an economist at the University of Nebraska and consultant to the libertarian Cato Institute.
Chile's free-market-minded dictatorship converted the system into a mandatory private savings plan in which pensions are largely determined by individual contributions and investment choices. Chilean workers must set aside 10 percent of their earnings in any of 21 private but heavily regulated pension plans. The two biggest, incidentally, are largely owned by Bankers Trust and Aetna Life and Casualty.
At retirement, the money can be used to buy a private annuity that pays a fixed monthly stipend. Alternatively, retirees can link their pensions to the continuing performance of their investment funds. Retirement is 65 for men and 60 for women. Chileans, however, are free to head for the beach earlier if they have accumulated enough to replace half their wages with an annuity.
The new system includes a safety net. Retirees and older workers caught in the transition from the bankrupt defined-benefit system are being paid their promised pensions from Government bonds that are amortized from general tax revenues. Moreover, the Government guarantees a subsistence income to everyone who has contributed to the new system for a total of 20 years if the investment funds do not perform well enough to cover the cost.
One problem here is the classic issue of defined-contribution pensions: individuals bear a lot of risk. But Olivia Mitchell, a professor at the Wharton School, points to the other side of this coin. "Governments," she said, "can always renege on their promises" to cover defined benefits -- and do once their unrealistic promises are exposed.
A more mundane but very real concern is the cost of managing the private pensions. Average fees collected by Chile's fund managers currently exceed 20 percent of annual contributions. "These numbers are way out of line with efficient pension fund management," said William Alpert, an economist at the University of Connecticut.
That said, it is hard to deny the Chilean system is thriving. For one thing, transition problems -- in particular, the need to cover underfunded defined-benefit pensions -- that might have been insurmountable in a democracy were solved with the stroke of a pen. For another, the ratio of taxpaying workers to retirees is almost three times as high as in the United States. "Chile has a very young population," which means that relatively large numbers of taxpayers are available to support those who reach old age in poverty, said Sylvester Schieber, an economist with Watson Wyatt pension consultants.
Last but hardly least, the private pension funds have benefited from the explosive performance of the local stock market. The returns to the pension funds' portfolios have averaged 13 percent in real terms -- roughly twice the rate of growth of the American stock market over the last 70 years. "The key element insuring the success of the system has been the profitability of the investments," Julio Bustamente, Chile's director of pensions, acknowledged.
It is easy to see why the Chilean pension system has become a model for Peru, Argentina, Bolivia and Mexico: all have young work forces to support retirees during the transition from pay-as-you-go finance. And all have immature capital markets begging for large, stable sources of domestic savings.
But none of this suggests that privatization of social security is a panacea for the United States -- where there are too few workers to support the retirement of the baby boomers, where promises to retirees exceed expected tax revenue by several trillion dollars and where government is seemingly always on the verge of gridlock. By contrast, Mr. Borden said, "all General Pinochet had to do was say is 'this is the way it is, fellas.' "

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (53%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (55%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (55%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); OLDER WORKERS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BONDS (72%); PENSION REFORM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITE, LAWRENCE (PROF); PASSELL, PETER LAWRENCE D WHITE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



728 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Cuba's 2 Steps Back

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Feb. 28

 BODY:
To many, Cuba's decision to shoot down two civilian planes over the Straits of Florida last weekend came as a surprise, given President Fidel Castro's recent campaign to improve relations with the United States. But Mr. Castro has always lashed out at enemies, real or imagined, whenever he feels threatened, and he and his Government are feeling especially threatened these days.
For the first time, dissident and human rights groups opposed to his 37-year dictatorship are attempting to come together here as an umbrella coalition called the Cuban Council. That has heartened exile groups in Miami, which have formed a support group for the coalition. But it has left Mr. Castro, who has been without any real allies since the Soviet bloc began disintegrating in 1989, feeling he is more vulnerable than ever to both internal and external opposition groups.
"Fidel Castro has always been what you Americans call a control freak," said a Latin American diplomat here. "He saw a danger developing, one that was intolerable to him, and he moved to crush it, regardless of its international consequences, before it could cause him any further problems."
Even before Saturday's attack on the two airplanes, there were numerous indications that Mr. Castro was distressed with the direction events in Cuba were taking, and he was intent on halting that course. The campaign against dissident and human rights groups that began on Feb. 15 and has resulted in the arrest or detention of more than 50 people came after a crackdown on prostitution and efforts to inhibit private businesses, which in Mr. Castro's mind are all manifestations of the same social ill.
"Last year it was one step forward," a European diplomat here said recently, referring to a slight easing of political repression described as "improvement without reform" by the human rights group Americas Watch. "This year it's been two steps back."
Mr. Castro set the tone in a Dec. 26 speech in which he sharply criticized the limited economic liberalization his Government has been forced to undertake in recent years. That effort, he argued, has resulted in "the birth of a new social class" of entrepreneurs and free-thinkers, who have foreign contacts and support and who, by their very nature, do not need the Cuban state or the Communist Party to survive and thrive.
"There is a sector that is going to make itself immensely rich," Mr. Castro warned. "The more powerful it becomes, the greater will be its influence on society and the greater its challenge to socialism."
Mr. Castro watched and worried throughout the late 1980's as first the Soviet bloc in East Europe and then Communist rule in Moscow itself disintegrated. Ever since, he has been telling anyone who will listen that he does not intend to repeat the mistakes made by Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader.
"Gorbachev seemed charismatic, and was very much applauded," Mr. Castro told an American delegation led by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. during a meeting on Feb. 18. But at the same time, Mr. Castro has always argued, the Gorbachev years resulted in the destruction of the Soviet Union and the Communist Party.
If Mr. Castro has a model in mind, it is probably China, which he visited in December. During his 10 days there, he seemed impressed by the Communist Party's policy of combining a state-directed economic opening with unrelenting political repression.
"It is really admirable what they are doing," Mr. Castro said at the end of his trip. Since returning to Havana, he has praised Chinese leaders for maintaining political control, arguing that their approach is the only way to avoid the breakdown of a one-party system while assuring economic growth.
Recent European and Latin American visitors had repeatedly urged Mr. Castro to let the Cuban Council go ahead and hold the meeting it had announced for this month, arguing that he had nothing to lose. Some 130 human rights groups, professional organizations and nascent political parties are members of the newly formed organization, which has no clearly defined ideology and many contenders for leadership.
"It's silly," Wayne Smith, who was head of the American Interests Section here under Presidents Carter and Reagan and is now a critic of the embargo against Cuba, said of the crackdown. "These groups don't provide any threat, and Cuba could improve its image internationally by taking it easy on them."
The shooting down of two airplanes owned by Brothers to the Rescue occurred the same day that the Cuban Council was scheduled to hold its first meeting, and allowed Mr. Castro to link the council with exile groups and to portray both as controlled by American intelligence agencies.
Leaders of Cuban Council acknowledge that they had been contacted by Brothers to the Rescue and other Miami exile organizations, and that almost $4,000 had been collected on their behalf. But council leaders stressed that they were merely trying to exercise rights guaranteed them by the Cuban Constitution and that they are a nonviolent and democratic force independent of the United States.
Throughout his long stay in power, Mr. Castro has taken actions that transformed his domestic woes into confrontations with the United States.
Faced with discontent about economic and political conditions that exploded into a street protest in 1994, he manufactured the crisis that eventually forced the United States to end its 30-year policy of automatically treating all Cubans leaving the island as political refugees.
Cuban officials obviously knew that an attack on American-based civilian aircraft would bring about yet another crisis with the United States. Adm. Eugene Carroll of the Washington-based Center for Defense Information recalls a meeting with the Cuban Armed Forces high command earlier this month in which he was asked what would happen if Cuban MIG's shot down one of the exiles' aircraft.
"My answer was that it would be a political disaster, the people in the United States who claim we are not being tough enough on Cuba would seize on it as evidence we have to get tougher," Admiral Carroll, who was leading a delegation of retired American diplomats and soldiers, said.
But the Cuban officers reacted as if they were under siege by the United States, Admiral Carroll said, arguing that "moving the headquarters of the Southern Command from Panama to Miami indicates a greater focus on Cuba," and increased the likelihood "we will foment internal disorder, and use that as an excuse to invade."
Overall, Admiral Carroll said, the Cuban high command seemed to be "paranoid and highly suspicious."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (76%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CUBAN COUNCIL (64%); COMMUNIST PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUBAN COUNCIL (64%); COMMUNIST PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (76%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRLINES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (64%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



729 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
International A2-12
 
MORE SANCTIONS FOR CUBA
Driven by the downing of two civilian American planes, Congressional negotiators and the White House agreed on sanctions intended to cut off investment in Cuba. A1
News Analysis: The shootdown came as a surprise. A6
 
ALL-PARTY TALKS FOR ULSTER
The leaders of Britain and Ireland said that talks among all sides over the future of Northern Ireland would begin on June 10. A1
 
THE ROYAL DIVORCE
Diana, the Princess of Wales, said she had changed her mind and would agree to divorce her estranged husband, Prince Charles, the heir to the British throne. A1
 
RUSSIA REVAMPS COAL INDUSTRY
Faced with the slow, agonizing decline of one of its vital industries, Russia has begun an ambitious attempt to rescue its coal mines. A1
 
ISRAEL AND SYRIA RESUME TALKS
Israel and Syria opened their third round of American-mediated peace talks with room for modest progress on water, security and economic issues. A2
 
TALKS ON REFORM STALL IN MEXICO
Mexico's opposition threatened to leave talks on election reforms to protest what it claims was an attempt to whitewash a police massacre of 17 peasants. A8
 
Osaka Journal: When mobsters try to go straight. A4
 
National A14-19, B8-9
 
NEW INTEREST IN NEW YORK
New York's Republican primary has risen to take a spot on the Presidential calendar, presenting a largely uncluttered contest between Steve Forbes and Senator Bob Dole for the state's 93 delegates. A1
A court ruled that Steve Forbes will appear on New York's ballot. B8
 
SUPPORT IN SOUTH CAROLINA
Patrick Buchanan's protectionist message sounds pretty good to workers in South Carolina, which holds a primary on Saturday. A1
 
PROBLEMS FOR YOUNG ON WELFARE
A study of families receiving welfare found warning signs that their young children are likely to have problems in school. A14
 
DANGER SEEN IN RITALIN
An international narcotics agency reported a sharp increase in the use of a drug to temper the behavior of children and says the drug -- sold as Ritalin -- could pose dangers to the children's well-being. A14
 
HOPE FOR NEVADA DRY SPELL
The dry spell in Nevada could be near an end; snow that supplies Lake Tahoe with water is deeper than normal. A14
 
PACT TO CURB TV VIOLENCE
Television executives reached agreement on the outlines of a ratings system for violence that can be used with new technology to let people block out violent shows. A15
 
NEW METHOD FOR CENSUS
The Census Bureau said it would actually count only 90 percent of the population in the year 2000 and rely on statistical sampling methods to determine the remainder. A16
 
Metro Report B1-7
 
DEATH PENALTY RULED OUT
In his first decision in a capital case since New York State reintroduced capital punishment last year, District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of Manhattan said yesterday that he would not seek the death penalty in the case of two young men charged with killing three members of a Harlem family in a robbery in October. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
Grammy Award winners. C13
Music manuscripts at Morgan Library. C13
New chairman at Kennedy Center. C15
Music: Critic's Choice: CD's C13
Weston at Wetlands. C15
Iceland Symphony. C17
Dominique Eade. C20
Dance: National Ballet of Spain. C18
Charles Moore company. C18
"My Feet Are Killing Me." C18
Books: Jerzy Kosinski biography. C18
The Home Section C1-11
Rooms to please any id. C1
 
Sports B10-18
Baseball: Yankees' Kamieniecki has changed. B16
Basketball: Knicks lose to Kings. B11
Columns: Anderson on Rodney Hampton B11
Football: 49ers make offer for Hampton. B11
Hockey: Rangers lose to Bruins. B11
 
Obituaries D19
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
Editorials
The power of rich candidates.
Reviving the Irish peace effort.
Needless mental health tragedy.
Letters
William Safire: 18 U.S.C. Section 1001.
Maureen Dowd: Gasping for Eire.
Tad Szulc: Castro's China model.
David Feige: Prosecuting Judge Duckman.
 
Neediest Cases B2
Chronicle D20 Bridge C12 Crossword C12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRELAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); SYRIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: HAMPTON B11 FOOTBALL (70%); C18 CHARLES MOORE CO C18 (62%); NEW YORK NEW YORK'S REPUBLICAN (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NEW YORK'S REPUBLICAN (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRELAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); SYRIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); FAMILY (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); COAL MINING (69%); CENSUS (67%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (63%); STATISTICAL METHOD (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); CAPITAL CRIMES (60%); 

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (56%); PRINCESS DIANA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



730 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Delays New Financing of Companies' Trade With China

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
The Export-Import Bank has agreed to defer any new financing for American companies doing business in China for at least a month at the request of the Clinton Administration, which is weighing how to respond to evidence that China has shipped nuclear weapons-related technology to Pakistan.
Harry Phillips, a spokesman for the agency, said today that it had received the request from Secretary of State Warren Christopher on Tuesday and would honor it. 
 The bank, the export credit arm of the Government, has $10 billion in requests for loan guarantees and export credits awaiting approval for American corporations seeking to do business in China. Mr. Phillips said he could not put a dollar value on the projects that might be delayed.
The bank's action stops short of long-term economic sanctions and gives the Administration a month to seek assurances from China on limiting future shipments of nuclear technology.
"We have gone to the Chinese Government and suggested that the best way to clarify our concerns is for them to be forthcoming in addressing some of our specific questions," the White House press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, said today. "And that dialogue now with China will continue."
Another United States official said the Administration was "trying to get China to agree specifically not to make these sales and to abide by the terms of the nonproliferation treaty, which they have signed." The treaty seeks to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
The official said the bank's action "sends a message to China, puts a little pressure on them to come to terms."
The Central Intelligence Agency has concluded that last year, China sold Pakistan 5,000 ring magnets to use in equipment that enriches uranium, a step vital to producing nuclear warheads.
The Nonproliferation Act of 1994 requires the President to suspend Export-Import Bank financing for trade with countries that sell nuclear weapons information and technology.
The ring magnets can be used to produce fuel for nuclear power plants as well as for weapons, and American officials say China has insisted that its shipments were for peaceful use.
The issue has posed a quandary for the Clinton Administration. The President has made nuclear nonproliferation a cornerstone of his foreign policy. At the same time, the Administration is loath to see its prickly relationship with China deteriorate further or to punish American businesses eager to get a foothold in China's fast-growing market.
Tensions have also been aggravated by China's belligerent military and political maneuvers aimed at influencing the presidential election next month in Taiwan.
And the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, has been considering tariffs against imports of Chinese goods unless Beijing cracks down on the piracy of intellectual property like computer software, video recordings and compact disks.
The Administration has yet to make an official finding that China is in violation of the nuclear treaty. Administration officials said that over the next month, they will be seeking more information from China to support its case.
At the same time, the Administration will push for commitments from China to forswear future technology transfers related to nuclear arms.
With such a promise in hand, the President would be on stronger ground if he chose to impose sanctions against China for the shipments but then waive them on grounds of national interest.
"It would be an easier decision politically if one could say one got something on the nonproliferation side," said Stanley O. Roth, who was in charge of Asia policy at the National Security Council until he left the Government last month.
It is not clear to what extent the one-month suspension of credits will affect American businesses. Mr. Phillips said the bank generally took 20 to 25 applications for loans or credits related to China each month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF US EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (94%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (53%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF US CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; PAKISTAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (93%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (86%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



731 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Tolls to Rise 17% For Bridges and Tunnels

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
The price of driving from one borough to another is to rise on March 24, with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's board vote yesterday to raise the tolls on its major bridges and tunnels to $3.50 each way, from $3.00.
At the same meeting, the board also approved a five-year contract that will pay Lawrence G. Reuter, who will be the new Transit Authority president, $165,000 a year, a salary equal to the Mayor's and the highest ever paid an M.T.A. official. 
 Increases in the bridge and tunnel tolls have been expected since August, when E. Virgil Conway, the M.T.A. chairman, proposed a long-range financial plan that included higher tolls and fare increases for the subway, bus and commuter rail networks, in part to make up for declining city, state and Federal subsidies. The subway and bus fare rose 20 percent, to $1.50, and commuter rail fares rose 9 percent on Nov. 12; the toll increase is 17 percent.
The bridges and tunnels are the only part of the transit system that turns a profit -- $568 million last year -- and that money is used to support other arms of the M.T.A. Under a formula set by state law, 52 percent of the surplus goes to the Transit Authority, and 48 percent to Metro-North Commuter Railroad and the Long Island Rail Road.
The board voted 8 to 4 for the increase in bridge and tunnel tolls, with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's four appointees dissenting in protest of the division of the toll surplus. Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson said that two-thirds of the people who pay the bridge and tunnel tolls are city residents, so two-thirds of the profit should go to the city transit system. That would mean about $100 million more for the Transit Authority.
"New York City residents are subsidizing commuter railroads outside the City of New York," he said, though he acknowledged that the formula was unlikely to change because "the suburban legislators like it just the way it is."
Mr. Conway, who was appointed last year by Gov. George E. Pataki, a former state legislator from Metro-North territory, has said he will not lobby for a change in the law.
While tolls in general will rise, the rates paid by Staten Island residents who use the Verrazano-Narrows bridge will fall, a change endorsed even by the Giuliani representatives on the board. For islanders who use the E-Z Pass, the windshield sticker that pays the toll electronically without a car's having to stop, the discount rate on the bridge will fall from $4 to $3.20 round-trip. On the Verrazano, unlike the other M.T.A. crossings, a toll is collected only westbound, at the round-trip rate.
M.T.A. officials said that the sale of discount tokens for the crossings would continue, but, citing a need to deter hoarding, they refused to say whether new tokens would be issued.
Critics of the M.T.A., whose board is made up mostly of appointees of the Republican Governor and Mayor, contend that the discount for Staten Islanders is nothing but favoritism for the most heavily Republican of the city's five boroughs.
"It is an amazing political sleight-of-hand to have in the same financial package a fare increase and toll increases for everyone else, but giving Staten Islanders a discount," said Gene Russianoff, staff attorney for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders' group.
Transportation planners and environmentalists also contend that the Staten Islanders' discount creates congestion. "The people who use E-Z Pass are the regular commuters, who tend to travel in the peak hours," said Jeffrey Zupan, a consultant to the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group that advises government on development. "This is encouraging them to do that, when what you're supposed to do is encourage people to travel off-peak."
The $3.50 toll each way will apply to the Verrazano, Bronx-Whitestone, Throgs Neck and Triborough bridges, and the Queens-Midtown and Brooklyn-Battery tunnels. The toll will rise to $1.75 each way from $1.50 on the Henry Hudson, Marine Parkway and Cross Bay bridges.
Mr. Reuter, 45, who heads the Washington transit system and is to take over at the Transit Authority on March 11, is to be paid $165,000 a year to run the nation's largest transit system, plus a housing allowance of $3,500 a month.
Alan F. Kiepper, who is retiring as president, gets $149,500 a year and a $3,000-a-month housing allowance.
When adjusted for inflation, the salary has declined somewhat in recent years. Mr. Kiepper's pay did not change in his more than five years in the job, and his predecessor, David L. Gunn, was paid $140,000 a year from 1984 to 1990.


GRAPHIC: After midnight tonight, taxi riders in New York City will pay more for their trips, the first increase in cab fares since January 1990.
 
New Fare Structure
Chart: "REMINDER: Taxi Fare Increase Starts Tomorrow"
 $2 for the first 1/5 of a mile.
 30 for each additional 1/5 of a mile.
 20 per minute spent stuck in stopped or very slow-moving traffic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (54%); TRANSIT AUTHORITY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) TRANSIT AUTHORITY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BRIDGES & TUNNELS (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SUBURBS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



732 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Slow Demand At Auction Erases Gains

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices were mixed yesterday despite data that pointed to continued moderate inflation.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/32, to 93 26/32, for a yield of 6.47 percent, unchanged from Tuesday. The price of the two-year note declined 5/32, to 99 18/32, pushing its yield up 10 basis points, to 5.36 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
 Treasury securities with intermediate and long-term maturities gave back their earlier gains yesterday after the results of the Treasury's auction of new five-year notes were released, an indication that demand was lukewarm, market analysts said. The Government sold $12 billion of new five-year notes at a yield of 5.680 percent, up from 5.360 percent last month and the highest since 5.810 percent on Oct. 25, 1995. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
Earlier, the Treasury also sold $6 billion in 13-day cash management bills at an average rate of 5.06 percent. Cash management bills are sold to meet the Treasury's short-term borrowing needs beyond the money raised through the scheduled auctions.
Today, the Treasury plans to sell $18.75 billion of new one-year bills, which at the close of the New York market had a rate of 4.93 percent.
Yesterday's economic reports suggested to some market participants that with inflation in check, the Federal Reserve would continue to ease short-term rates to help stimulate the economy.
In the eyes of some market participants, the Fed's flexibility was only slightly damaged by a report showing a stronger-than-expected rise in consumer prices. The Labor Department said consumer prices rose four-tenths of 1 percent in January, or three-tenths of 1 percent excluding the index's food and energy components. But many investors and economists discounted the increase because of an unexplainable rise in apparel prices, a seasonal spike in the cost of resort lodging and some statistical peculiarities.
"The numbers were consistent with a good inflation trend, and while they may not be as good as the 2.5 percent in 1995, under 3 percent is still pretty good," said Joseph LaVorgna, an economist with Lehman Brothers.
The Commerce Department's December inventories report posted the first decline since March 1994. Inventories fell a surprising half of 1 percent and sales during that period rose 1 percent.
In another report, the National Association of Realtors said home resales dropped 4.1 percent in January, more than economists expected.
With more data still due this week, like the Chicago Purchasing Managers and National Purchasing Management reports, weekly jobless claims and auto sales, few investors were willing to commit themselves yesterday without more proof, so the buying subsided late in the afternoon.
Still, a number of market participants are counting on another cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
Paul A. McCulley, chief economist at UBS Securities, said the market two weeks ago priced in a Federal funds rate, or an overnight bank lending rate, of 4.50 percent, with expectations for cuts of a further 75 basis points by September. Such a cut was considered to be a "done deal, but last week Fed chairman Alan Greenspan said it wasn't," Mr. McCulley said, adding, "So now the market has spent the last week readjusting to the actual Fed fund rate of 5.25 percent."
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes and 13-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.680%
Low Yield . . . 5.600%
Median Yield . . . 5.639%
Accepted at low price . . . 77%
Total applied for . . . $26,012,264
Accepted . . . $12,002,814
Noncompetitive . . . $327,000
Interest set at . . . 5 5/8
 
The five-year notes mature on Feb. 28, 2001.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.817
Discounted Rate . . . 5.06%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.15%
High Price . . . 99.818
Discounted Rate . . . 5.03%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.12%
Low Price . . . 99.817
Discounted Rate . . . 5.06%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.15%
Accepted at low price . . . 92%
Total applied for . . . $32,082,150
Accepted . . . $6,003,150
Noncompetitive . . . $150
 
The 13-day cash management bills mature on March 14.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



733 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: A Cultural Reluctance To Spare the Rod;
Newcomers Say Americans Spoil Children

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

 BODY:
The immigrant mothers sat along the edges of Brooklyn playgrounds and talked about two methods of discipline: the American way, and the way they brought with them from their homelands.
American parents, they say, give a young child a timeout or ground an older one, then may even feel guilty about it. The immigrant parents believe sterner is better, they say. They would slap a fresh mouth, spank a disrespectful child or beat one who dared to lie or skip school. 
 But that approach requires them to walk a fine line. If they administered the kind of lickings they endured while growing up in the islands, they say, they might lose their own children to foster care, or even face arrest.
"The first thing a child learns here, 'If you spank me, I'll call 911,' " said Emma Henderson, a mother of three who grew up in Dominica. "There's something wrong about it."
At a time city planners estimate that more than half of New York City's population is made up of immigrants and their children, one of the central cultural clashes is about where spanking ends and child abuse begins. Many immigrants, from cabdrivers to baby sitters to schoolteachers, say Americans spoil their children by sparing the rod. The police and child protection workers are too quick to cry abuse, they say.
The child protection system, with many social workers who are themselves immigrants, has not had an easy time resolving some cultural differences. Critics say that too often, caseworkers judge excessive punishment as acceptable, and have called for better training for agency workers.
These issues have come to the fore in two recent child welfare cases, with the arrest of a Nigerian immigrant charged with assaulting his son, who was found with a broken wrist, and of a Cambodian immigrant couple that the authorities said beat their disobedient daughter with a plastic curtain rod.
The Nigerian father, Shakiru Adebayo, told the police he was following the disciplinary ways of his country. The city caseworker who investigated an earlier abuse report on the family had decided the beatings of the boy were signs not of abuse, but of the father's cultural beliefs, school officials said.
But Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, a pediatrician who was Minister of Health in Nigeria from 1985 to 1993, said last week that Mr. Adebayo, if guilty of the charges, had crossed the line into brutality even in the context of his own culture. Breaking a child's wrist is "clearly beyond the pale," said Dr. Ransome-Kuti, now a consultant to the World Bank in Washington.
In New York City, city officials concede, the city has done a poor job in recent years of training the new workers to make complex judgment calls about when a child is being abused.
In a confidential November 1995 memo, Gene D. Skarin, associate general counsel of the city's Human Resources Administration, voiced alarm about caseworkers who have lived in the United States only a few years and see "excessive corporal punishment being an acceptable form of discipline."
Immigrants who think that hitting is the best way to teach children to be respectful and studious are running into a contrary view, held by many doctors, psychiatrists and social workers, that physical discipline can deaden a child's spirit and lead to violence later in life.
That view, along with a growing awareness of child abuse, has contributed to an evolving definition in the United States of what constitutes excessive corporal punishment, which is against the law. In many parts of the country, and in New York in previous decades, for example, principals routinely paddled the mischievous. But for more than 30 years, corporal punishment has been forbidden in New York City schools.
Immigration experts say the issue is a highly charged one for many people locating in the New York metropolitan area from all over the globe: Nigerians, West Indians, Dominicans, Mexicans, Eastern Europeans and Russians, among others.
Often, the parents have come to America for the sake of their children, only to feel they are losing them to the rebellious ways of American youth. Separated from the extended family members and neighbors who had helped keep children in line back home, and separated from their children by the long hours they put in at work, panicky immigrant parents may rely more on harsh discipline, experts say.
Mary C. Waters, a Harvard University sociologist who interviewed West Indian immigrants and their children in New York City from 1991 to 1993, said corporal punishment was the central issue for them.
"When I asked what's different about the United States," she said, "they said: 'The state comes between you and your children. Americans don't discipline their children well, and when you do it the right way, there's the danger your kids can call social services on you.'
"They were at a loss as to how to discipline your child if you couldn't hit them. It cut across class lines."
Una Clarke, a Jamaican-born City Council member from Queens, said that immigrants must learn new ways to discipline their children as part of their adaptation to American culture. When she worked for the city supervising day care centers, Ms. Clarke said, she tried to teach parents, for example, that they can tell children they will not get a new pair of sneakers until they behave.
"Many families saw that as bribery," she said. "You have to tell them it's a reward for appropriate behavior. Clearly, there is a clash of values. But the law of this country has to be one law."
The conflict between West Indian parents and children is intensified by the particular pattern of their migration, in which the mother typically arrives first, with her children following years later, often as teen-agers. Parents then discipline children who are resentful at having been left behind, and who in some cases may not know their parents well.
"The kids all knew they could call D.S.S. on their parents," Professor Waters said. "When new kids arrived from the West Indies, that was one of the first things they'd tell each other. They saw it as a lever to use against their parents. They could threaten this and maybe reduce the beating they were going to get."
George Mathelier, a Haitian immigrant, said he sees the power struggle between immigrant parents and children taking place at Prospect Heights High School in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where he is a social worker. The Caribbean children who were used to beatings in their schools in the islands "quickly realize the system here is lax and loose and they can get away with murder."
He described the case of a 14-year-old Haitian who had been neglecting his homework and taking money from his parents. His father, a cabdriver, gave him a beating and the son called 911. The father was arrested and taken away in handcuffs. The case was resolved with a court recommendation of family counseling. The father pretended he was no longer angry, Mr. Mathelier said.
Next summer, the family went to Haiti on vacation. At the airport there, the father pulled out a leather strap and whipped his son on the spot. Two days later, the family flew back to New York, leaving the teen-ager in Haiti with relatives.
The clash of cultures is especially acute for the thousands of immigrant women who work as baby sitters, often 50 or more hours a week caring for the children of upper-middle-class professionals. Daily they come face to face with two opposing attitudes toward discipline.
Barbara Solomon, who was a schoolteacher in Tobago, took a job as a baby sitter when she first immigrated two years ago. One day, the 4-year-old girl in her care came in from school and dropped her coat and lunch bag on the floor.
"I told her to take it up," Ms. Solomon said. "She started screaming and throwing a tantrum. I thought, 'If she was my 4-year-old, I would have slapped her.' Her brother picked up for her. She told me her mom did not allow her to put her things away. I believe in children learning to pick up after themselves."
Ms. Solomon, who now works 12-hour shifts seven nights a week caring for an elderly person and spends another 20 hours a week in college studying tourism, said her four children have not challenged her right to discipline them. She said she tells them that if she cannot punish them here she will take them home to do it, an effective threat since they love living in the United States.
"Beating or flogging a child was the parents' way of getting them to conform," she said. "It's because we love them that we use it."
Like many other West Indian parents, Ms. Solomon said she understood the difference between discipline and abuse. She said she was careful not to bruise her children or hit them so hard their skin swells. She said she always explained the reason for the spanking.
"If I cannot beat them and they get out there, the police will shoot them when they do wrong," she said. "I love my children more than the system loves them."
The immigrant mothers in Brooklyn talked of their own mothers' pelting them with whatever came to hand, a bar of soap, a cup, a pot spoon; or whipping them with a broomstick, a shoe or a switch.
Ingrid Neverson, a 24-year-old from St. Vincent, who works a a baby sitter, vividly remembered the time she told her grandmother she was going to the library to study, but instead went to the beach. Her uncle spotted her and called the grandmother.
When Ms. Neverson got home, her grandmother found her wet bathing suit, took the 15-year-old Ms. Neverson to the bedroom and gave her a beating that left welts all over her back. "It was long," she said. "It was painful."
At the time, Ms. Neverson tried to move in with her father or her grandfather, but both backed up her grandmother. Now, she said, she thinks that her grandmother did the right thing.
As the 2-year-old boy she looks after tugged affectionately on her hand at a playground in Prospect Park, Ms. Neverson seemed shocked when asked if she had ever slapped him. She said the boy is well disciplined and that she would never hit him. When asked what she would do when she has children of her own, she replied:
"I would spank my kids. Those are my kids. I would discipline them how I see fit."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (93%); DOMINICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (93%); DOMINICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (91%); CHILD WELFARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); FAMILY (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); LAWYERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); CITIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); BONE FRACTURES (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



734 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Computer-Guided Selling Sends Dow Sharply Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The broad stock market ended mixed yesterday, but late computer-guided selling programs sent the Dow Jones industrial average sharply lower, erasing early gains.
The Dow lost 43 points, closing at 5,506.21, after giving up a morning gain of more than 30 points. 
 But the broad market did not perform nearly so poorly. Advancing issues barely led decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, rising to 1,234 against declines of 1,123. Big Board volume was heavy yesterday at 447.8 million shares at the close..
The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.38, to 1,107.55, and the American Stock Exchange's market value index added 2.80, to 566.66.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 2.49, to 644.75, and the New York Stock Echange's composite index fell 0.97, to 344.62.
Blue-chip stocks tracked bonds. The long Treasury bond rose about a half-point in the morning, despite robust economic reports, but dipped in the afternoon on a weak Treasury auction of five-year notes. The 30-year Treasury bond was up 1/32 point near the close, yielding 6.47 percent.
Stocks "held up as long as they could" in the face of contracting bond prices, but finally dropped into negative territory late in the session, said Leon Brand, a global technical analyst at NatWest Securities.
The Labor Department said consumer prices shot up four-tenths of 1 percent in January. Economists had expected a rise of three-tenths of 1 percent.
The Commerce Department said business inventories fell five-tenths of 1 percent in December, while sales rose 1 percent. That suggested to investors that manufacturers might increase production to replenish inventories, which could produce a potentially inflationary increase in economic activity.
Sales of existing homes fell 4.1 percent in January, which the National Association of Realtors attributed to winter blizzards and consumer unease.
Bob Dickey, managing director and technical analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis, said the market was reacting to two major crosscurrents.
In one corner are "folks who are seeing risk of higher rates and potentially a slowdown in the economy," Dickey said. "Those are the people taking profits right now.
At odds with them are money managers who continue to receive heavy cash inflows from investors. The money managers have to put that money to work for their customers by buying stocks, and the buying has kept stock prices up, Mr. Dickey said.
On Tuesday, the Investment Company Institute, a mutual-fund trade organization, said investors poured a record $29 billion into stock mutual funds in January, eclipsing earlier estimates and almost tripling the previous January record, set in 1994, of $10.5 billion.
AT&T finished unchanged at 64 after strong morning gains. The company said Tuesday that it would offer free Internet access on a limited basis.
But AT&T's announcement pushed down the stocks of companies that charge for Internet access. America Online fell 1 3/4, to 47 3/8; Netcom fell 2 3/8, to 20 3/8, and Uunet Technologies Inc. skidded 3 3/8, to 28 5/8.
Bear, Stearns & Company downgraded Netcom and Uunet to neutral from attractive, citing competition from AT&T.
Banking and other financially sensitive stocks rose in the morning as interest rates fell, and for the most part hung on to their gains into the close. Citicorp finished up 5/8 at 78 1/4.
The Dow industrials were led lower by a wide selection of both economically sensitive and recession-resistant names.
Eastman Kodak fell 3/4, to 71 1/2; Caterpillar fell 1 5/8, to 67 3/4; General Electric lost 1 5/8, to 76 1/8; Chevron slipped 1 1/4, to 54 1/2;, Du Pont dropped 1 3/8, to 77 3/4, and I.B.M. skidded 1 3/8, to 127 3/8.
Chrysler, another Dow component, rose 1 1/2, to 56 3/4, after Furman Selz upgraded the stock to buy from hold, pushing other auto stocks up with it. Ford Motor rose 1/4, to 31 1/2, and General Motors climbed 1/8, to 51 5/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) DAIN BOSWORTH INC (63%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); BONDS (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); EXISTING HOME SALES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (50%); 

PERSON: BOB DICKEY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



735 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE OVERVIEW;
Divided Verdicts From the Early Primaries Are Raising the Stakes for the Next Batch

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Feb. 28

 BODY:
Just days after his candidacy was written off by his rivals for the Republican Presidential nomination, Steve Forbes found himself back at the center of attention today after his relentless championing of a flat-tax proposal finally paid off with a victory on Tuesday in the Arizona primary.
Mr. Forbes defeated Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, whose campaign pollster only a few days earlier had been predicting victory in Arizona. But Mr. Dole easily won in both North Dakota and South Dakota, marking the Senate majority leader's first statewide primary victories since winning the Iowa caucuses earlier this month. 
 Patrick J. Buchanan, who had been enjoying the status of surprise front-runner since his victory in New Hampshire, finished third in Arizona and North Dakota, and second in South Dakota.
The divided verdicts raised the stakes in the already hotly contested South Carolina primary on Saturday, which stands as a gateway to eight contests three days later, including a set of primaries in New England.
The turn to the South, where the trailing candidate, former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, is counting on a resuscitation of his own fortunes, also brought a marked change in the candidates' dialogue. Today there was a far greater emphasis on social and trade issues that did not register with voters in Arizona.
Although Senator Dole won in the Dakotas, the most significant contest was here in Arizona, with the largest total, thus far, of 39 delegates.
Polling of voters as they left the ballot boxes showed that Mr. Buchanan hung onto the core of disaffected Republicans and staunch conservatives who vaulted him to victory in New Hampshire and jolted the Dole campaign.
But Mr. Forbes was rewarded by voters who put taxes at the top of their agenda and responded well to his calls for a flat tax to replace the current income tax system, a proposal that had failed to catch on in the earlier nominating contests.
After his victory in the Delaware primary on Saturday, Mr. Forbes has sprung back to the top tier of contenders -- and he has the most delegates to his party's national convention. Of the 996 delegates needed for nomination, Mr. Forbes is leading with 57 delegates, followed by Mr. Buchanan, 31; Mr. Dole, 27, and Mr. Alexander, 5.
But in keeping with the way this campaign has produced an ever-shifting lineup of top contenders, that only served to make Mr. Forbes, the publishing magnate, the target of fresh criticism from Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Dole. Both candidates had essentially ignored Mr. Forbes after his fourth-place finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire.
Mr. Buchanan, who said he miscalculated by not taking on Mr. Forbes in Arizona, called him a social liberal whose views would not play well in the South.
"His position on the social issues, once exposed, is basically Clintonism," the conservative commentator said of Mr. Forbes. "And of course we're going to point this out. We're going to have to clearly differentiate our positions from Forbes better than we did in Arizona."
Mr. Dole attributed his loss in Arizona's first primary to the fact that Mr. Forbes dipped into his personal fortune to saturate the state with millions of dollars of television commercials.
"Forbes spent $4 million -- that's what happened," the Senator said rather testily late Tuesday night. "We spent $860,000. We can't match that kind of spending."
Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, blamed the campaign's since-dismissed pollster for assuring him that Mr. Dole would win easily in Arizona. He conceded that the Senator probably should have campaigned longer in the state.
Citing Mr. Dole's obligations as Senate majority leader, Mr. Reed added, "We have been playing catch-up ball for the last two or three weeks in some of those states."
For his part, Mr. Forbes took the attacks in stride, asserting that his victory here spoke to the power of his message.
"I think it's wide open," he said. While he played down South Carolina, where he has done little campaigning, Mr. Forbes said he was looking to a face-off in New York, where only he and Mr. Dole will be on all the ballots.
The balloting burst Mr. Buchanan's hot streak, despite his aggressive campaigning in Arizona.
But Tuesday's voting was even more troubling for Mr. Alexander, who had tried to present his third-place finishes in New Hampshire and Iowa as evidence that he was the obvious alternative to Mr. Dole. By the reckoning of his own advisers, Mr. Alexander sorely needs to do well in South Carolina.
The former Tennessee Governor faces a practical problem: If he does not win at least 10 percent of the vote in South Carolina, he will lose his eligibility for Federal matching subsidies. Federal Election Commission rules require a candidate to capture at least 10 percent of the vote in two consecutive primaries to get the money. Mr. Alexander failed to meet that threshold on Tuesday.
The three major television networks, CNN and The Associated Press, which surveyed voters as they left the polls in Arizona, found that Mr. Forbes was bolstered here by his signature issue, the flat tax, which was more popular than it had been in New Hampshire.
While New Hampshire voters said their biggest concern was the economy and jobs, voters in Arizona placed taxes as the most important.
Among the 27 percent of the voters surveyed who cited taxes as the overriding issue, nearly 7 out of 10 voted for Mr. Forbes. Six out of 10 said they preferred the flat tax to a graduated one, and 42 percent of those votes went to Mr. Forbes.
Mr. Forbes also performed well with the independent voters that Mr. Buchanan has courted. Fourteen percent of the primary voters described themselves as independents, and 41 percent of them backed Mr. Forbes. And he took half the votes of people who said they backed Ross Perot's independent bid for the Presidency in 1992, compared with 29 percent for Mr. Buchanan and 15 percent for Mr. Dole.
But the danger for Mr. Forbes is that he is still widely viewed as a single-issue candidate, and the tax issue, while a winner in a state like Arizona, might not play as well in the South.
The poll had some good news for Mr. Dole: After voters in Iowa and New Hampshire said he was a weak representative of conservative views, voters here said otherwise. Nineteen percent said a candidate's ability to represent conservative thinking mattered most to them; of those, 32 percent backed Mr. Dole and 35 percent favored Mr. Buchanan.
But as long as Mr. Forbes and Mr. Alexander stay in the race, Mr. Dole will lose votes to them and have a hard time staving off Mr. Buchanan. In Arizona, people who voted for Mr. Alexander and Mr. Forbes said their second choice would have been Mr. Dole. Mr. Buchanan's supporters, however, said their second choice would have been Mr. Forbes.
As was the case in Iowa and New Hampshire, Mr. Dole, who is 72, is still hampered by his age; a third of the voters here said his age would hinder his ability to be an effective President.
While Mr. Buchanan had a poor showing on Tuesday, the survey of voters shows that he stood out when voters considered personal qualities rather than issues.
Twenty-one percent of the voters here said their vote was largely determined by a candidate's ability to stand up for his beliefs. Mr. Buchanan overwhelmed his rivals on this score, as he did in New Hampshire. Seventy percent of the voters here who acknowledged they wanted a candidate with backbone supported Mr. Buchanan, while Mr. Forbes and Mr. Dole won 12 percent each.

GRAPHIC: Table: "KEEPING TRACK: Delegate Tally" lists the current breakdown of the Presidential preference of delegates to the Republican national political convention, as compiled by The New York Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (96%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



736 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: In a First, 2000 Census Is to Use Sampling

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
To cut costs and improve accuracy, the Census Bureau said today that it would actually count only 90 percent of the United States population in 2000 and rely on statistical sampling methods to determine the number remaining.
The plans, announced at the Commerce Department, mean that for the first time the official tally of the American population, done every 10 years and used to apportion seats in the House of Representatives, will be based in part on a scientifically determined estimate rather than the actual head count conducted through a mass direct-mail campaign. 
 Census Bureau officials say the revised method is needed to keep costs down and to avoid a repeat of the 1990 census, which missed record numbers of people that had been traditionally hard to count, mainly members of ethnic and racial minorities.
"What we intend to do to meet our twin goals of reducing costs and increasing accuracy is to make a much greater use of widely accepted scientific statistical methods, and sampling is first and foremost among them," said Martha Farnsworth Riche, the Census Bureau Director.
Scientific sampling, commonly associated with public opinion polls, involves questioning a selected group of people and using the information derived from them to count or describe a much larger group. The Census Bureau has used sampling for years to determine national characteristics like the poverty and unemployment rates. But it has never used this method to determine the official population.
In 1990, the Government refused to adjust the census results to correct an acknowledged undercount of some four million people, mostly black and Hispanic residents of large cities. That refusal prompted a lawsuit by a coalition of big cities, led by New York. The case is pending before the Supreme Court.
Critics of the bureau's use of sampling argue that is is unconstitutional because the Constitution calls for an "actual enumeration." But decisions in lower Federal courts have approved the use of sampling as long as it supplements, and does not supplant, an actual count.
Census Bureau officials say sampling is needed because of the increasing number of people who fail to return their mail-in census forms. In 1990 only 63 percent of American households sent the form back, compared with 85 percent that did so in 1970, the first year the census was conducted by mail.
The Census Bureau has to send temporary enumerators to households that do not return the forms, sharply increasing the cost.
Officials say that in the 2000 census, mail-in forms and enumerators will be used until 90 percent of the households in a county have been counted. Then a statistical sample of 10 percent of the remaining households will be selected, and enumerators will be dispatched, repeatedly if necessary, to count them. The results will be used to estimate the total number of those who were originally missed.
"Better to hound one in 10 than 10 in 10," said Everett M. Ehrlich, Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, who oversees the Census Bureau.
The bureau also plans to simply its forms, reducing the number of questions to about eight on the short form, down from 17 in 1990, and 55 on the long form, down from 59. The long form is sent to about one in every six households, and contains questions that provide a wealth of data for demographers, social scientists, marketers and governments.
In addition to mailing the forms, the bureau for the first time will allow people to pick them up at government buildings like libraries and police stations, as well as community centers and convenience stores. The bureau will set up a toll-free telephone number to allow people to call in their responses, and is also trying to determine if there is a way people can respond via the Internet and still keep the responses confidential.
Officials also plan to use new technology, including digital maps of every structure on every block in the country that will insure that the bureau does not overlook buildings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (95%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNICITY (73%); POVERTY RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (70%); APPROVALS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); RACE & RACISM (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



737 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT AGREES TO TOUGH NEW SET OF CURBS ON CUBA

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
Driven largely by the downing of two civilian American planes by the Cuban military, Congressional negotiators and the White House agreed today on a package of sanctions intended to punish Fidel Castro by curbing foreign investment in Cuba.
The measure, which President Clinton had opposed until this week, would give the weight of law to the nearly 40-year-old embargo against Cuba that has been the policy of every American President since Mr. Castro came to power. That would prevent any President from acting on his own, as Mr. Clinton and others have in the past, to loosen or tighten sanctions as relations with Cuba change. 
 But the package, the most tangible reaction yet to the downing of the planes last Saturday, also includes more potent provisions that supporters said would deter foreign investment in Cuba and thus hasten the downfall of an ailing regime.
One provision would deny visas to anyone -- corporate officer, principal, controlling shareholder -- with a stake in a property confiscated in the 1959 Cuban revolution from someone who is now a United States citizen. A senior Administration official saidbillions of dollars' worth of property now controlled by foreign companies in Cuba could be affected.
"I don't expect our allies will be pleased with this legislation, but we believe it advances an important part of our foreign policy," the official said.
Another provision would allow American citizens whose property was confiscated by the Castro Government to file suit in the United States against any foreign company using that property. But in a concession to win the support of the Administration, it would give the President the right to waive that rule every six months to keep the courts from being choked with lawsuits.
No other nation observes the United States embargo on Cuba. Canadian, Mexican and French companies, among others, have sizable investments there. Canada, for example, imports about $225 million of Cuban goods a year and sends Cuba about $160 million worth of Canadian goods. Canada is expected to challenge the policy under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 Only last summer, Secretary of State Warren Christopher recommended that Mr. Clinton veto this bill. But Cuba's downing of the planes, which had taken off from Florida, put enormous political pressure on the President to act decisively. Mr. Clinton only narrowly lost Florida to George Bush in 1992, and the state is considered a key battleground in this election year.
On Monday, President Clinton imposed limited sanctions against the Cuban Government, closing off charter air routes, restricting the movements of Cuban diplomats in the United States and expanding the broadcasting range of Radio Marti, the Government-supported anti-Castro radio station.
But Mr. Clinton's actions were roundly criticized as weak and ineffective by some Cuban-American leaders, by Congressional Republicans and by nearly all of the Republican Presidential contenders. And when Congress reconvened on Tuesday after a nearly monthlong recess, supporters of the stronger bill moved immediately to revive it.
Most of the corporate giants in the United States, as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Exporters and Importers, oppose the measure.
"What we hear from the C.E.O.'s is they feel the legislation will make it impossible for U.S. companies to develop a position within the Cuban market, while providing more opportunities for companies in other countries," said John S. Kavulick, president of the United States-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, which represents more than 100 companies.
Other officials said the maker of Bacardi rum, which had vast holdings in Cuba before the revolution, made a major lobbying effort for the measure.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and general chairman of the Democratic Party, said, "The heart of this bill is special interest legislation par excellence."
But backers of the legislation touted it as the tool that would drive President Castro from office after 36 years in power. "He is on the ropes," said Representative Dan Burton, a Republican from Indiana and a co-sponsor of the bill. "I think this is the last nail in his coffin."
Representative Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, the senior Democrat on the International Relations Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, said the measure "makes continued foreign investment by multinational corporations in Cuba very unlikely."
"You can either come to the United States and do business, or you can choose to do business with Fidel Castro and his $300-per-capita national income," he said.
A jubilant Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the other co-sponsor of the bill, said, "I have one message for Mr. Castro today: adios, Fidel."
The sponsors said a conference bill would be brought to the floors of the Senate and the House in the next few days and sent to the White House by early next week.
President Clinton has indicated he will sign the legislation, which is formally known as the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act but is more commonly referred to as the Helms-Burton Act.
Opponents argue that in their haste to punish Mr. Castro, supporters of the bill are turning Washington's policy on Cuba in the wrong direction.
"We seem to have lost sight of the national interest and how best to promote it," said Representative Lee H. Hamilton of Indiana, the senior Democrat on the House International Relations Committee. "We are voting today on a conference report that represents far more than a message. If enacted, it will cast in concrete policy mistakes that will not be easily undone."
Mr. Hamilton said that if the legislation were approved, it would isolate the Cuban people and "increase the risk of violent upheaval, and increase the risk of a massive flow of refugees to U.S. shores."
The legislation puts the Clinton Administration in a political vise. On one side are Washington's allies, especially Canada, which has long objected to the unilateral trade embargo against Cuba and the limits it places on their trade. The bill urges the President to seek an international embargo against Cuba through the United Nations Security Council.
But Mr. Clinton is facing more pressure in an election year from opponents who threaten to turn his Cuban policy into a major political issue.
"The President, in light of the incident Saturday, believes tightening the embargo on Cuba is necessary now, both to deal with this incident and promote our overall goal of Democratic change in Cuba," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman.
Differing versions of the legislation passed the Republican-controlled House and Senate last fall, but were stalled after the Administration objected to the lawsuit provision in the House bill.
But the legislation was moved to the political front burner after Cuban MIG fighters shot down the two civilian planes on Saturday. The Clinton Administration maintains the planes were shot down in international airspace; Cuba says they were within its territorial limits.
Four people were aboard the two planes, all of them Cuban-Americans working with Brothers to the Rescue, a Miami-based group of Cuban exiles opposed to the Castro Government who have harassed Cuba before. Officials say the four were presumably killed.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
F.B.I. Says Pilot Was Informant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CANADA (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

ORGANIZATION: ;BROTHERS TO THE RESCUE

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CANADA (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES ; CUBAN-AMERICANS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ASSETS, FROZEN FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); REFUGEES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); TRENDS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); SHAREHOLDERS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



738 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
South Carolina Is a Crossroads For the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: CLINTON, S.C.

 BODY:
With red lipstick from farewell kisses still smeared across both cheeks, Todd E. Alexander worked his last shift at Clinton Mills Industries' Lydia plant, a hulking old textile mill that plans to shut its doors in April. During a midday break, the 23-year-old maintenance technician explained how his involuntary search for a job had intersected with his search for a Presidential candidate in the state's Republican primary on Saturday.
"I'm looking at job security and the economy," Mr. Alexander said a few days ago. "It would sure help a lot if a President could help out the companies over here in America and make it so our products are bought." Although he said he had not ruled out Senator Bob Dole, Mr. Alexander said, Patrick J. Buchanan's protectionist message sounds pretty good right now. 
 Twenty-six miles down State Route 72 in Greenwood, there is a different South Carolina. One of the largest new employers there is the Japanese film giant, Fuji, which recently announced plans to add about 200 people to its work force of 1,000 in a sprawling complex on the outskirts of town. Since opening in Greenwood in 1989, Fuji has been an ideal corporate citizen, town leaders say, and its $33 million annual payroll trickles through the local economy each day.
That is the main reason that Alvin Rankin, a co-owner of McCaslan's, a bookstore on Greenwood's Main Street that sells office supplies to Fuji, plans to vote for Mr. Dole. "The main thing is that he's not a protectionist," Mr. Rankin said, citing the Fuji plant here and its plans for expansion. "Buchanan's is just a closed-door policy."
On the verge of a crucial Presidential primary, these are the two voices of South Carolina and, by extension, of the modern South itself.
While one voice cries out for Government protection for the mature industries that have employed generations of low-skilled Southerners, the other argues that the region's economic future lies with modern development, foreign investment and trade.
The debate between those views, both in South Carolina and in the six Southern states that vote on the next two Tuesdays, seems very likely to play a significant role in determining the Republican nominee for President. And in the process, it may reveal a great deal about the awkward coexistence of the new South and the old.
After victories on Tuesday by Steve Forbes in Arizona and Mr. Dole in the Dakotas, Republicans are still waiting for a state to winnow the field. As the gateway to a two-week spree of Southern primaries, South Carolina could do that.
Mr. Dole begins with the backing of much of the state's Republican establishment, including Senator Strom Thurmond, Gov. David Beasley and former Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. But Mr. Buchanan expects heavy support from Christian conservatives, who played a large role in Mr. Beasley's 1994 election.
And former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, while something of a late starter in South Carolina, is challenging Mr. Buchanan directly on trade in the hope of siphoning votes from Mr. Dole.
While the textile and apparel trades remain the largest employers in South Carolina, those industries have lost nearly 60,000 jobs in the last two decades. Battered by imports and automation, textile mills and garment factories have closed virtually every month, breeding the kind of economic anxiety that helps pollinate a protectionist message.
But like many Southern states, South Carolina has also staked its future on foreign investment. Last year, the state shattered records by announcing the creation of 6,307 jobs through $1.8 billion in new foreign investment, accounting for 26 percent of all new jobs and 34 percent of all new investment, the State Department of Commerce reported.
Unemployment hovered at 5.1 percent last year, half a percentage point below the national average. And while wages have just managed to keep pace with inflation over the last decade, foreign manufacturers like BMW in Greer, Michelin in Greenville and Fuji in Greenwood have reputations for paying good wages. Average pay for factory workers at those plants is $28,000 to $31,000, compared with a statewide average of $22,500 in 1994.
Doug Woodward, an economist at the University of South Carolina, said that Mr. Buchanan's social conservatism may win him support in places like Greenwood, but only until voters consider his views on trade.
"It's going to sound odd," he said, "when Buchanan says, 'Foreigners are the problem.' They're going to say, 'Wait, I work for them.' "
South Carolina, Mr. Woodward said, "is a state that really has seen both the benefits and costs of trade liberalization."
"Trade is the future of this state," he said. "This is a state that wants to be known as open to the world and as a state that can contribute and compete in the global economy. And we're doing O.K. There are pockets of poverty. There are problems in our rural communities where they've seen plant closures. But on balance, it has led to an increased standard of living and higher per-capita income."
Mr. Dole's strategists maintain that Mr. Buchanan's protectionism will not sell here.
"He is thinking of a South that he saw when he campaigned with Richard Nixon in the 1960's when there used to be a lot of sweatshops with a lot of manual labor," said J. Warren Tompkins, a former top aide to Mr. Campbell who is Mr. Dole's senior Southern consultant. "The South is changing and our economies are diversified and we have brought ourselves to the level where we are able to compete globally."
But Mr. Buchanan, who has called for tariffs of up to 20 percent on Asian imports, has not altered his message. He laces his speeches with references to textile mill closings, including the Lydia plant here in Clinton, and rails against "corporate butchers who no longer feel a deep sense of loyalty to their employees."
And although South Carolina's textile and apparel industries split over the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mr. Buchanan has successfully used his opposition to the treaty to raise money in South Carolina. One of his most prolific fund-raisers, and one of six members of his campaign advisory committee, is the textile magnate Roger Milliken, the chairman of Milliken & Company in Spartanburg. Mr. Milliken and his employees contributed at least $14,250 to the Buchanan campaign in the first nine months of 1995, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a group in Washington that monitors campaign financing.
Foreign competition is only part of the reason that Clinton Mills Industries is closing its Lydia plant, where cloth has been loomed since 1902. "Imports have affected that plant significantly," said A. Michael Hopp, a company vice president. "But it's also that apparel and home furnishing sales are very weak. And that plant was our oldest plant and had the oldest technology."
The company hopes to relocate about half of the mill's 400 employees to its three other plants in the area. But many of the workers who got pink slips here perceive that the real enemies are overseas and below the border.
Kenny E. Brock, a 42-year-old electrician who came to work at the Lydia plant two years ago in search of job security, said he was likely to vote for Mr. Buchanan because "he wants to limit the imports and the foreign cloth and stuff like that so we'll have some work instead of Korea and Mexico getting all of it."
David E. Satterfield, a 34-year-old air-conditioning technician who has worked at the plant for 12 years, said he would choose between Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Dole. "I'm going to vote for the man who will get me a job," he said.
But down in Greenwood, when Bill W. Wilson, the owner of Thayer's Fine Gifts and Home Furnishings, looks around his store, he sees imported Waterford crystal and Lenox china and recalls how Fuji managers love to buy those things stuff as gifts to take home to Japan.
"We buy from all over the world," said Mr. Wilson, who said he will choose between Mr. Dole and Mr. Alexander. "I can't imagine this country stopping and saying we're going to keep our nice little sewing jobs and we're not going to compete. I think Pat Buchanan's dangerous in that sense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the South Carolina textile industry is downsized, Todd A. Alexander is one of the casualties. He found a new job before losing his old one in the closing of a Clinton mill but said protectionist policies appealed to him.; Bill Wilson, the owner of a Greenwood, S.C., gift and china shop, opposes Patrick J. Buchanan's trade positions and plans to vote for either Bob Dole or Lamar Alexander in South Carolina's primary on Saturday. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET LAYOFFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN LAMAR ALEXANDER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



739 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Grows, But Gap With Japan Slims

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit worsened slightly in December, making the 1995 total the biggest in seven years, the Commerce Department said today. The figures immediately added fuel to the debate on trade that has played a key role in the Presidential campaign so far.
The figures showed an improved performance vis-a-vis Japan, the first annual decline in America's deficit with that nation in four years. But exports to Mexico slumped sharply in the wake of Mexico's economic crisis, and the deficit with China, an increasingly politically sensitive area, continued to grow. 
 The Clinton Administration, clearly concerned that its free trade policies could leave it open to Republican charges of sacrificing American workers to the desires of big business, argued that the overall trade performance showed marked improvement, especially during the second half of the year, and that surging exports were a major source of job creation.
The export growth and the prospect of a much narrower deficit in 1996 "confirm that our pro-growth, pro-employment, pro-trade policy is working," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the head of the Administration's National Economic Council.
But Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican Presidential contender who has made protecting American jobs from foreign competition a centerpiece of his campaign, seized on the numbers as support for his case that free trade hurts workers more than it helps.
"You know what that represents," Mr. Buchanan told a campaign rally in South Carolina. "We just lost 2.2 million jobs last year."
Administration officials responded that there was no basis for Mr. Buchanan's contention, and that half a million of the 1.5 million jobs created last year were at least partly attributable to the growth in exports.
The Commerce Department said the deficit in trade of goods and services rose to $6.8 billion in December, from a revised $6.7 billion for November. The increase was lower than most economists had expected.
For all of 1995, exports were $783.7 billion and imports were $894.7 billion, resulting in a deficit of $111 billion, up $4.8 billion, or 4.5 percent, from 1994's deficit of $106.2 billion.
Exports grew 11.8 percent for the year, while imports grew 10.8 percent.
"What we're beginning to see, particularly in the November-December numbers, is a significant deceleration in import activity and a signficant acceleration in exports," said Veronika White, an economist at the First Union Corporation, a banking company in Philadelphia.
"If we look at the nominal trade balance numbers, 1995 was the first year since since 1991 where export growth outstripped import growth," she said. "If this continues, the trade deficit is going to shrink in 1996, and this will have a positive effect on economic growth."
Officials said exports for the year were hurt by economic weakness among key trading partners, including Japan and Western Europe, but especially Mexico. The United States ran a deficit with Mexico for the year of $15.4 billion after posting a trade surplus in 1994 of nearly $1.4 billion. Without the negative swing in Mexican trade, the overall deficit would have narrowed, economists said.
Administration officials and economists said that with Mexico's economy apparently starting to mend, American exports to Mexico should improve this year.
The deficit with Japan, long among the most sensitive trade issues, declined 9.7 percent, to $59.3 billion last year from $65.7 billion in 1994. Merchandise exports to Japan were up 20 percent, while auto imports from Japan declined 10.5 percent.
The deficit with China grew 14.6 percent, to $33.8 billion, from $29.5 billion in 1994. That came against a backdrop of increased tensions between the United States and China over human rights, nuclear technology and other issues.
Underscoring the sensitivity of the trade relationship with China, the White House has suspended for 30 days any financing of deals by American companies in China through the Export-Import Bank while the Administration considers whether to impose sanctions on Beijing because of its sale of nuclear technology to Pakistan.
With Mr. Buchanan's calls for protectionism having struck a chord with some voters and with the Republicans generally moving to distance themselves from their historical support for free trade, the Administration's leading economic policy makers were eager today to fight back on an issue that they had hoped would be an easy plus for them.
"We've got a significant education job to do with the American people," said Ronald H. Brown, the Commerce Secretary. "There's a lack of understanding of how dependent our economy is on exports and healthy trade. That's why we've taken such aggressive action to open markets around the world."
But the officials said there were signs that their message was getting through, including recent exit polls in Republican primaries showing that for the first time more than half of those responding believed free trade was good for the economy.
They said that far from costing jobs, free trade agreements had insulated the American economy from fallout from problems in other nations. The North American Free Trade Agreement, for example, had taken some of the sting out of Mexico's economic collapse by helping American companies increase their share of Mexican imports to 75 percent from less than 70 percent over the last several years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Balance of Trade" tracks imports, exports, and the deficit from July 1994 through December 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (80%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



740 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: BEHIND THE SCENES;
Former Carolina Governor Promises His State for Dole

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: GREER, S.C., Feb. 28

 BODY:
"I'm back in the cross hairs," said Carroll A. Campbell Jr., the natty, self-assured former Governor of South Carolina, sipping coffee in an effort to shake the effects of only three hours' sleep.
"We have to deliver for Dole the way we did for George Bush in 1988 and Ronald Reagan in 1980," he said. "I know it. Everyone knows it. He needs this state to get back on top. It's harder this time, with Steve Forbes already spending enormous amounts on television -- 21 spots a day on one station in Columbia, they tell me. Every vote he gets comes right off Dole's total. 
 "But I promise you: Bob Dole is going to win South Carolina."
Mr. Campbell left office a year ago with a 72 percent approval rating, and he is often called the most popular governor in the state's modern history. Now the president of the American Council of Life Insurance in Washington, a lobbying group with a $35 million annual budget, he has plunged into the campaign in South Carolina on behalf of a man whom he did much to defeat eight years ago.
Between Steve Forbes's money and Patrick J. Buchanan's populism, he has his hands full, and then some, with the pivotal primary here set for Saturday. Senator Dole leads in the latest independent polls, but some here say he is slipping.
The stakes are high for Mr. Dole, who has won only contests in Midwestern farm states: Iowa, North Dakota and South Dakota. As a Kansan, he had an obvious advantage there. Elsewhere, he has lost -- in New Hampshire, Delaware and most recently Arizona. South Carolina could be a brick wall or a springboard for him, with primaries on Tuesday in Georgia, New England and other states.
"If Bob Dole can't win decisively in South Carolina, national Republicans are going to wonder if he can win anywhere," said Earl Black, who was once a professor at the University of South Carolina, and now teaches Southern politics at Rice University in Houston.
For Mr. Campbell, the stakes are high, too. Mr. Dole, a plain-spoken plainsman, is not a natural fit in the more baroque political world of the South. Mr. Campbell is his most important guide here, with the possible exception of Mr. Dole's wife, Elizabeth, who comes from Salisbury, up Interstate 85 in North Carolina.
Mr. Campbell is proud of his ability to assure victory here to the candidate of his choice. He is flattered, he admits, by talk of him as a possible Dole running-mate: "If he goes South, we may be on the short list."
And he resents attacks on his accomplishments, which is what he sees in Mr. Buchanan's economic nationalism. Free trade is the 56-year-old former Governor's gospel. He traveled the world as Governor, seeking investors and personally negotiating deals that brought the BMW car plant to the outskirts of Greenville, where Mr. Dole spoke this afternoon, and the Fuji Photo plant to Greenwood.
"We have 110,000 new jobs in South Carolina in foreign-owned factories," he said in a speech this morning at the Liberty Life Insurance Company in Greenville, the Piedmont city where he grew up. "More than $27 billion in new investment, lots from abroad. Jobs that pay an average of 5 to 15 percent more than the old average in this state. Three ports thriving now, supporting 78,000 more jobs. Sure some people are hurting -- the textile workers especially, but not, most of them, because of Gatt or Nafta. Why are they out of work? Simple: computers, robots, our electronic age, that's what's cutting employment."
Then he lit into Mr. Buchanan, who has been citing the loss of textile jobs as proof of the evils of free trade and foreign competition. "Buchanan says, 'Let's build a wall around South Carolina and man the bunkers in this state,' " Mr. Campbell said. "That's the most backward thing we could do. For the first time in history, South Carolina has a diversified economy. We're prospering. Now he wants to take us back to the dark ages, just when we're seeing the light."
Mr. Dole, he conceded, does not make the case nearly as vigorously.
"I'm trying to get him to do it," the former Governor said. "He's starting to. I've been through this a bunch of times. I know the potholes; I can help him. But you know, in the end the candidate wins it or loses it."
But this afternoon, inside the BMW plant in Greer, Mr. Dole mumbled a few phrases about free trade, then stepped aside and let Mr. Campbell, Gov. David Beasley and Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, his erstwhile rival, speak for him. Standing beneath a bright red Z-3 roadster, mounted vertically, Mr. Gramm said that "those who would throw in the towel on America," meaning Mr. Buchanan, "should come to South Carolina and see how things are done."
Mr. Dole looked like a spectator at his own wedding.
Mr. Campbell is not quite as well placed as he was eight years ago. He and his partner in what came to be known here as "attack-dog politics," Lee Atwater, started organizing the state and region for Mr. Bush with the help of Mr. Atwater's renowned Rolodex in 1985. South Carolina provided not only the "firebreak," as the Bush campaign called it, that cut short a string of disappointing performances, but also the key to Mr. Bush's ensuing Super Tuesday sweep, in which he won 16 primaries, 577 delegates and the nomination.
Mr. Atwater died of cancer in 1991. Mr. Campbell's successor, Governor Beasley, is not quite in his league as an organizer or strategist, and the Dole organization is neither as deep nor as extensive as the Bush network. Mr. Campbell and Mr. Beasley have made television commercials for Mr. Dole (though some South Carolina politicians say the current Governor is not as enthusiastic about the Senator as the former Governor is). They tout Mr. Dole's experience and his common sense, and picture him as a unifier of the the Republican Party and the nation.
But Neil Smith, a longtime Republican organizer in Pickens County, west of Greenville, told Mr. Campbell today that no one from the Dole organization had bothered to call him this year to work in the campaign." "If Carroll were really running things," he said, "it wouldn't be like that. But now you've got the Christian coalition and other religious conservatives in power in a lot of places. They aren't organizers, and the ones that are are for Buchanan, most of them."
Sounding almost worried, Mr. Campbell commented: "It's time for Senators and Governors and other officeholders to start calling up Lamar Alexander and Richard Lugar and all these other candidates that don't have much of anything going for them and tell them they need to get out of the race, stop splitting the mainstream vote six ways, unite behind Dole and beat Pat Buchanan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina has championed the cause of Senator Bob Dole in Saturday's Republican primary in the state. Mr. Campbell, left, talked to the Senator during a recent rally. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: SCCB (NASDAQ) (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH CAROLINA COMMUNITY BANCSHARES INC (67%); LIBERTY LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (70%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HISTORY (72%); LOBBYING (71%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); LIFE INSURANCE (52%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CAMPBELL, CARROLL A; DOLE, BOB (SEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



741 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: House Vote Keeps Peanut and Sugar Price Supports

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
The House narrowly rejected efforts tonight to eliminate Government price supports for peanuts and sugar, which critics contend cost American consumers billions a year.
In a vote reflecting regional farming interests more than partisan politics, the House by a vote of 217 to 208 defeated an amendment to phase out sugar price supports over five years. Earlier, lawmakers rejected an amendment to eliminate the peanut program by a 212-to-209 vote. 
 But the House drew the line at generous provisions for dairy farmers and adopted an amendment, by a vote of 258 to 164, to partly dismantle price supports for milk. The amendment offered by Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, Republican of New York, phases out over five years a policy of keeping milk prices high by purchasing surplus cheese, butter and nonfat dry milk.
Mr. Solomon's measure preserves a regional system of price supports for milk and offers a dairy program that the Senate and the Clinton Administration find more acceptable than the provisions it replaces.
The votes on the amendments to the farm bill tested the free-market principles Republicans have espoused and, in the case of sugar and peanuts, found them to be secondary to the concerns of farm constituents.
The House plans to vote on Thursday on the entire farm bill, which represents the most sweeping agricultural legislation in 60 years and would end Depression-era programs that pay farmers not to plant certain crops.
The bill would replace subsidies on many crops, including corn and wheat, with fixed payments that would gradually decline over the next seven years.
The Senate approved similar legislation earlier this month, by a vote of 64 to 32. The Senate bill contains conservation measures that the House does not. But efforts to cut back on the sugar and peanut subsidies were blocked there.
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman has said he will recommend that President Clinton veto the overall bill, if the House version prevails. The Administration has not taken a position on the sugar or peanut amendments.
Congressional supporters of the subsidies warn that eliminating Government aid would cost thousands of American jobs to cheaper imports, and have threatened to withhold support of the overall bill.
But an unusual alliance of free-market economists, consumer groups and food companies that buy raw commodities formed to attack price supports that they say cost Americans $3 billion a year.
Under the sugar program, for example, the Government sets price supports that maintain domestic sugar prices that are twice those on the world market and, according to the General Accounting Office, cost consumers $1.4 billion a year. Strict quotas on cheaper foreign sugar maintain the support price levels, which critics say benefit a small number of wealthy plantation owners and encourage overproduction in environmentally sensitive areas like the Florida Everglades.
The the sugar program enjoyed the support of an alliance of its own, including sugar cane and sugar beet growers as well as corn farmers, who produce corn sweeteners used in soft drinks. Proponents argued that eliminating the program would not prompt manufacturers to pass along the savings to consumers.
Both sides of the sugar debate asserted that jobs were at stake.
The United States Cane Sugar Refiners Association says 11 of 22 American sugar refineries have gone out of business since 1981. A Domino sugar refinery in Brooklyn that employs 800 people may have to go out of business unless sugar price supports decline, industry officials said today.
But Ohio and Michigan lawmakers, for example, warned that 12,000 sugar beet farmers could go out of business without the Government's safety net.
Moments after the vote on sugar, dozens of lobbyists sitting in the House gallery cheered, hugged each other and gave the thumbs-up signal to lawmakers on the House floor.
Under the peanut program, the Agriculture Department sets a national quota for the amount of peanuts that can be grown domestically and still receive full price support. The farm bill would reduce this support level to $610 a ton from $678 a ton. But opponents, including conservative research organizations and consumer groups, supported the amendment to drop the support price to $310 a ton by 2001, and end the program entirely the next year.
House Republican leaders tried earlier this month to force the overall farm bill to the floor for a vote without considering any amendments. But moderate Republicans and Democrats protested.
The centerpiece of the overall bill rests on provisions that would remove farmers from a decades-old system of complex subsidies and limits that paid them for certain crops whenever market prices dropped too low, and replace that system with payments aimed at easing farmers' transition to a market-based approach.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and other members of Congress attended a rally in Washington yesterday protesting inclusion of sugar price supports in House and Senate farm bills. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: SUGAR; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; PEANUTS SUGAR FARMING (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); MILK (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); POLITICS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); PEANUT FARMING (89%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORN FARMING (77%); VETO (77%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (75%); CHEESE (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); APPROVALS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC BILL CLINTON (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



742 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: World News Briefs;
Judge in U.S. Overturns Judgment Against Swiss

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A staggering $125 billion default judgment against two Swiss governmental agencies was overturned yesterday, temporarily allaying fears of a financial crisis in Switzerland.
Judge David Trager issued the ruling in United States Federal Court in Brooklyn, then heard a motion by Swiss officials to dismiss the entire case. He set no date for a ruling. 
 The case dates to the 1961 death of Grant S. Higgins, a Seattle real estate salesman, who according to his family left an estate worth $600 million in gold and silver mining contracts at the Inter Change Bank of Chiasso, Switzerland. The bank collapsed om 1967.
State Supreme Court Justice Gerald S. Held ruled in the estate's favor in 1994, largely because the defendants did not show up for the hearing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTER CHANGE BANK (55%); STATE SUPREME COURT (55%); UNITED STATES FEDERAL COURT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SUPREME COURT (55%); UNITED STATES FEDERAL COURT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SILVER MINING (53%); 

PERSON: TRAGER, DAVID G (JUDGE) GRANT S HIGGINS (55%); GERALD S (55%); DAVID TRAGER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



743 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Big Business Can't Run From Workers' Plight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire (column, Feb. 26) smells a pinko-populist plot to which he assigns the label "New Socialism," with Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican Presidential contender, playing Marx and with me as fellow traveler. 
 I've been called worse by better name-callers, but to be anointed a New Socialist by the midwife of the New Nixon makes me tremble for the future of neologism.
Labels aside, Mr. Safire still gets my thinking all wrong.
Wage disparities have been growing and real median wages sliding since the late 1970's, and lots of Americans aren't happy about it. The Clinton Administration has restored job growth and has shrunk the deficit, and median wages have stopped dropping.
But the long-term challenge of restoring wage growth is still before us. That's why we're fighting for more investments in education and job training, a higher minimum wage, the earned-income tax credit for working families, and better pension and health-care security.
Of course, government can't do it all -- especially a Federal Government trying to shrink the deficit while carrying a $4 trillion debt. That's where the private sector comes in.
If corporate America doesn't step up to the plate, it will have to contend with far worse than a proposed tax incentive for upgrading employee skills, sharing the profits or helping the laid-off find new jobs.
Try protectionism and nativism for starters. Mr. Buchanan may fade, but not the anger that fuels him. Unless present trends are reversed -- in the words of an earlier plutocrat-turned-populist -- you ain't seen nothing yet.
 
ROBERT B. REICH
Secretary of Labor
Washington, Feb. 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); FAMILY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



744 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Big Business Can't Run From Workers' Plight;
For a New Capitalism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
What William Safire (column, Feb. 26) and other advocates of free enterprise forget is that corporations are themselves the products of one of history's most far-reaching experiments in socioeconomic engineering. 
 Genuine laissez-faire capitalism would require the state to get out of the business of chartering corporations and of limiting the liability of investors to the value of their shares and granting corporations First Amendment rights identical to those of flesh-and-blood citizens.
We have not only accepted the legitimacy of these artificial persons called corporations, but have also allowed our representatives to grant them political and economic rights far exceeding any corresponding responsibilities.
Nevertheless, it would be reasonable for us to require, in exchange for limits on the liability of investors and other corporate privileges, not only environmental and other provisions mandating greater social responsibility but also limits on corporate profits, combined with limits on executive compensation.
Such limits could be set low so as to promote greater economic equality, or they could be set high so as to affect only a small number of corporations that either are extremely profitable or pay their employees or officials high salaries. Neither option would endanger corporate competitiveness, since corporations would be affected only after achieving profitability in the marketplace.
Mr. Safire talks about the "stultifying excesses of income redistribution." Thanks to the efforts of President Reagan and a compliant Democratic Congress, such excesses have indeed occurred during the past 15 years. But the redistribution has been in the direction that Mr. Safire favors. The rich have become richer while the poor have become poorer, and the middle class has barely kept pace.
 
RALPH SUTER
Chicago, Feb. 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM RONALD REAGAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996



745 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 29, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: Woes of Modern Russia Mirrored In the Decline of Its Coal Mines

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: SHAKHTY, Russia

 BODY:
Faced with the slow, agonizing decline of one of its vital industries, Russia has begun an ambitious attempt to rescue its failing coal mines.
In the dank, serpentine tunnels of the Yuzhnaya mine here in southern Russia, where miners toil amid rickety scaffolding, it is clear that the industry is crumbling. 
 Decades of mismanagement and unfulfilled reforms have created a kind of permanent crisis for Russia's 800,000 beleaguered, but still politically potent, coal workers.
And the stakes go far beyond coal.
With the financially stretched Government doling out billions of dollars in subsidies, the restructuring of the coal industry is central to Russia's efforts to contain spending and inflation. It could involve closing half of Russia's 261 mines, laying off tens of thousands of workers and cutting back on subsidies and encouraging competition.
The overhaul also provides an important test of President Boris N. Yeltsin's election-year promises of continued economic reforms in the face of stiff resistance from managers determined to maintain their control of Russia's smokestack industries.
The restructuring is being carried out under the watchful eyes of the World Bank, which has promised a $500 million loan on the condition that the reforms proceed and that an adequate social safety net be set up for the laid-off miners.
The loan, unlike the new $10.2 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund, would be specifically earmarked for creating a smaller but more viable coal industry.
"The most difficult thing is to change the mentality," said Yuri N. Dashko, a Russian mining expert who has been been working closely with the World Bank. "Money alone won't solve the problem."
The results of the old mentality are very much in evidence at the Yuzhnaya, or Southern, mine in this hardscrabble mining area 600 miles south of Moscow.
Wearing padded uniforms and carrying small oxygen tanks that hold an hour and a half's supply of air -- a precaution against cave-ins -- miners crowd into a shaky elevator for the long descent.
After a jarring train ride through several miles of tunnels, another steep descent in a second train and a final march through pools of dank water and clouds of acrid dust, the miners begin their six-hour shift, scraping coal out of deep, narrow crawl spaces.
They do it for the same reasons that their fathers did. It is practically the only job in town. "If you don't know a trade or steal, what else is there to do?" Vyacheslav Samoilov, a 35-year-old miner, said.
The problems have been long in the making. While other countries have also been forced to shrink their coal industries, Russia's distress is heightened by decades of Soviet rule.
Under Communism, the emphasis was on achieving maximum production, not on efficiency. The Government pampered the mines with large subsidies, and let them transport their coal on the railroads for nominal charges.
But Russia's industrial decline has lowered the demand for energy. The coal industry is losing business to natural gas. Rail costs have soared. More than half of Russia's mines may be inefficient, Russian experts say.
 
The Problem
A Soviet Legacy In the New Russia
The Soviet style of management lingers on. Many of the critical decisions -- which mines to close, which customers to sell to and how much to charge -- are not made by local officials. "We practically do not make any decisions," Gennady Semashko, the union leader at Yuzhnaya, said as he waited for the elevator to take him to surface.
Instead, the decisions are made in Moscow by managers at the Russian Coal Company, the state-owned concern that controls virtually every facet of the industry, including the distribution of subsidies.
For their toil, miners here may receive $200 a month or even more, depending on their years of service and the difficulty of their job. That is more than double the wage for local schoolteachers. In addition, the Government provides the miners with housing, schools and clinics.
Salaries of miners in Arctic and other northern regions can be several times the rate here, but many coal workers earn as little as $60 a month, and wages have been delayed for months at a time.
Furthermore, the work in the mines is dirty and increasingly hazardous, as tight budgets have forced miners to use old equipment and hampered repairs.
In early February, the problems came to a boil as miners across Russia launched a two-day strike. The walkout, four months before the presidential election, prompted a panicky Government to promise the payment of $200 million in back salaries and increase subsidies to the industry to $2.2 billion for 1996.
But the payoff to settle the strike was more of a temporary salve than a solution.
Reformers say the strike reflects the Russian Coal Company's reluctance to make tough decisions and helps keep up subsidies, which consumed a hefty 1 percent of Russia's gross domestic product in 1994. That made coal second only to agriculture as a burden on the Russian economy.
Too much of the subsidies, reformers say, goes for inefficient mines and too little is set aside for creating new jobs. They also complain that the state company diverts funds to questionable investments and financial companies that receive no outside scrutiny.
By treating wages as a lesser priority, they say, the company has created pressure for more spending by the Yeltsin Government, which recalls it was the miners who helped bring down Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet President.
The Government's efforts to end the strike also involved financial gimmickry.
To appease the miners, the Government included the World Bank funds in the promised subsidies for 1996, even though the bank is still evaluating the coal restructuring plan and has yet to approve the loan.
"We have already begun to divide the skin of a bear that has not been killed yet," said Igor S. Kozhukhovsky, the Economic Ministry's coal expert, and a staunch advocate of reform.
Even so, miners are beginning to complain that the promised wage payments are again being delayed, raising the specter of more labor unrest.
Boris G. Fyodorov, Mr. Yeltsin's former Finance Minister, said: "These guys are so afraid of the miners, the moment somebody announces a strike they promise to pay. Of course, they do not pay on time. Then in the next six months a new wave starts."
Mr. Fyodorov said the Government needed to aggressively carry out a 10-year plan to shrink and overhaul the industry.
"It has to be a very clearly defined plan, which is properly budgeted each year and then implemented with an iron fist," he said. "Probably, we should invite Margaret Thatcher to help us with this."
 
The Reform
Yeltsin Sidesteps Key Questions
With the World Bank loan hanging in the balance and the coal industry on the brink of insolvency, Mr. Yeltsin has declared his support for a sweeping overhaul.
But he also sidestepped hotly contested questions. Who will control the billions of dollars in subsidies, as they are being reduced? And who will ultimately own the industry's mines and other assets? Stock is to be issued in the state-owned Russian Coal Company, but the Government will own 100 percent of the shares for at least three years.
Mr. Yeltsin's vagueness has fed the power struggle in Moscow between reformers in the Economic Ministry, which wants to break up the monopoly the Russian Coal Company enjoys, and the bosses of the company, who want to preserve their control.
Sketching out his vision of a smaller, more profitable coal industry, Mr. Kozhukhovsky said subsidies should be phased out over at least 10 years.
As many as 150 of Russia's mines would be closed. The work force would be slashed to less than half its current 800,000.
Several steps would be taken to sharply limit the influence of the Russian Coal Company and encourage new competition, Mr. Kozhukhovsky added.
For example, instead of allowing the company to control the subsidies, that responsibility would be given to a committee of Government, trade union and company officials -- an approach strongly supported by the World Bank.
Significantly, the Russian Government promised to take this step during its recent negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. But it is not a binding commitment.
Three dozen new regional coal companies would also be given control of the mines, which are now effectively controlled by the Russian Coal Company.
The responsibility for maintaining schools, hospitals and other social services in mining communities -- a task of the coal industry now as in Soviet days -- would be transferred to local authorities.
While market reforms are expected to result in a decrease in coal production in the next few years, Mr. Kozhukhovsky forecasts that output, which was about 262 million tons in 1995, according to Russian figures, would actually increase to 280 million to 300 million tons a year at the end of the 10-year period, thanks to new technology and free-market efficiencies.
"Competition in every market segment is the best guarantor of energy security," he said.
 
The Opposition
Old-Time Coal Czars Reluctant to Let Go
But Yuri N. Malyshev, the director of the Russian Coal Company, is reluctant to give up his company's place at the top of the coal pyramid.
In an interview in his Moscow office, which is dominated by a huge map of Russia's coal empire, he said his company was the main repository of expertise on coal and mocked the idea, backed by the World Bank, of sharing responsibility for the distribution of subsidies.
"Somebody wants another experiment in Russia," Mr. Malyshev said. "When seven nurses take care of a child he may end up without his eyes."
He added that the World Bank was putting too much emphasis on shrinking the industry and financing social programs for the miners.
"We cannot fully agree with the bank in terms of allocating all the financing to closing mines down and to social protection," he said. "It sounds good, but if we do not invest money into prospective mines and quarries we will end up with all those promising projects being closed down."
Ultimately, the question will be decided by Vladimir V. Kadannikov, a former automobile industrialist who replaced a free-market advocate, Anatoly B. Chubais, as Mr. Yeltsin's top economic official, and perhaps by the President himself.
Mr. Kadannikov has already talked of limiting the Russian Coal Company's role in distributing subsidies. "The right steps are being taken toward reform," said Mary Louise Vitelli, a World Bank adviser on the loan. But details of the restructuring still need to be worked out.
In the meantime, the miners at the Yuzhnaya mine toil away, hoping only that their paychecks will someday arrive on schedule.
"I came here hoping to work and support my family," Vyacheslav Klemonov, a 46-year-old miner, said at his work station 1,300 feet underground, his face smeared with coal dust.
"But the old ways do not exist anymore," he said. "No one is offering to retrain me. There is no other job available. I have nowhere else to go."
 "After a jarring train ride through several miles of tunnels, another steep descent in a second train and a final march through pools of dank water and clouds of dust, the miners begin their six-hour shift, scraping coal out of deep, but narrow, crawl spaces.
"They do it for the same reasons that their fathers did. It is practically the only job in town.
" 'If you don't know a trade or steal, what else is there to do?' Vyacheslav Samoilov, a 35-year-old miner, said.
"The problems have been long in the making."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, an article yesterday about efforts to revamp Russia's coal industry omitted a passage in some copies. The affected section follows:
"Wearing padded uniforms and carrying small oxygen tanks that hold an hour and a half's supply of air -- a precaution against cave-ins -- miners crowd into a shaky elevator for the long descent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The coal industry, once a mainstay of the Soviet economy, is in decline; Moscow, hoping for foreign aid, is planning major reforms. A coal miner took a break at the Yugenaya mine in Shakhty, in southern Russia. (James Hill for The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Taking On a Bloated Industry" shows number of coal mines in major basin across Russia in 1982. (pg. A8)
 
Graphs: "Cutting Back on Production" shows Russian coal production figures since 1970. "Inefficient Methods" shows productivity of coal output in the U.S., Australia, Britain, and Russia in 1992. (World Bank) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: COAL; MINES AND MINING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COAL MINING (95%); LAYOFFS (91%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TRAINS (60%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

 
