

201 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: It's Time for Serious Talk About the Dollar 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
IS it really terrible when a government official tells the truth?
 You might think so, at least when the office in question is that of Treasury secretary and the subject is the dollar. 
 There were horrified reactions this week when John W. Snow allowed that he was "not particularly concerned" about recent weakness of the dollar. "The dollar is going to rise and fall some," he said. "There's nothing unusual about this, nothing alarming about it." The dollar promptly slipped and commentators started talking about Mr. Snow's gaffe, which was compared to all the ones supposedly committed by his predecessor, Paul H. O'Neill. 
Mr. Snow's aides quickly said he continued to believe in a "strong dollar" policy, and the next day he dutifully said the same.
The "strong dollar" policy is one of those things that every administration is supposed to follow, whatever the circumstances. The dollar is down 15 percent against the euro since President Bush took office. You don't hear criticism about that, but traders go berserk if a Treasury secretary does not stick to the script.
Mr. Snow did not agree to be interviewed for this column, but his spokesman, asked what the policy was, provided the following statement: "There has been a consistent policy on the dollar going back the better part of a decade, which I support. I favor a strong dollar. A strong dollar is in the national interest. A strong currency provides a reliable medium of exchange and serves as a stable store of value that people choose to hold. Sound pro-growth economic policies and a commitment to free and open markets are the foundation for a strong dollar." Such generalities do not qualify as much of a policy, but in any case nothing that Mr. Snow said could have reasonably been interpreted as a departure from it.
What is sad about this is that we could use some clear thinking on international economic issues, including the dollar. Mr. O'Neill had clearly given a lot of thought to those issues, but rather than consider what he had to say, the knee-jerk reaction was to say he had committed a gaffe by mentioning the subject at all. It is not clear if Mr. Snow has given much thought to the subject, but the reaction to his quite reasonable observations makes it unlikely he will be willing to say anything if he has.
With the trade deficit continuing to soar and foreigners no longer eager to invest in America, there is something to be said for a weaker dollar. In fact, a continued weak world economy could easily see competitive devaluations, as countries fight for competitive advantages in trade.
During the late 1990's, as America ran up huge trade deficits, the dollar was not damaged because foreigners were eager to invest here. But that has changed.
Last year, foreign direct investment in the United States was just $46 billion, down 85 percent from 2000. For the first time since 1995, American direct investment in foreign countries was greater than foreigners' investment here. There was also a sharp falloff in stock purchases by foreigners. Foreigners now lend us the money we need rather than invest it in assets or shares.
To John Paul Rathbone, an economics commentator on breakingviews.com, such borrowing is evidence that the United States is "taking on the financial characteristics of a banana republic."
That's a hostile view from Britain. But borrowers need to worry about what lenders think of them. Instead, there is little talk about our foreign financial position, and an implicit assumption that we can borrow all we want, for as long as we want, at very low interest rates. It would behoove Mr. Snow to give some thought to those issues, and it would behoove the rest of us to not give him grief if he decides to discuss them, rather than simply repeat the all-but-meaningless mantra of a "strong dollar" policy.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks foreign direct investment in the United States, measured in billions, from 1993 to 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); DEVALUATION (72%); EURO (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) NORRIS, FLOYD; SNOW, JOHN W (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



202 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
In Russia, No Time for Gloating Amid Worry About What It Now Stands to Lose

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 6 

 BODY:
After Russia's abrupt pledge on Wednesday to veto any United Nations authorization to invade Iraq, experts and politicians here are saying the White House fundamentally misread its ability to pressure the Kremlin into backing a war it fears will be ruinous to its own interests.
 Some cast that misreading as a consequence of American "arrogance," a word suddenly much in vogue here. They also suggested that the United States was overdue a comeuppance after years of steamrolling Russian objections to things like the NATO air war against Yugoslavia, the junking of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, the expansion of NATO and the basic tenets of a nuclear-weapons pact Russia grudgingly signed in May. 
 But in contrast to the 1990's, when American stumbles could elicit a glimmer of gloating in a superpower fallen on hard times, few are exulting over the rejection of what President Vladimir V. Putin likes to call his American partner. 
Instead, there is visible worry that what they see as an inevitable war will seriously damage American global standing and Western unity, both to Russia's detriment. And there is fear that the war will spawn a new wave of Islamic terrorists eager to strike both Russia and the West.
"Russia is not going to gain from America's blunder," said Sergei Rogov, the director of the institute for study of the United States and Canada and an influential foreign-policy figure in Russian political circles.
"The top priority for Russia -- our strategic priority -- is integration into the Western community," he said. "And if there's a big division in the Western community, that is not going to help the cause of Russian integration."
As recently as a week ago, senior American officials were confidently predicting that Mr. Putin would swing to the White House's side in the United Nations debate over war in Iraq, precisely because it was to Russia's economic benefit.
In interviews, those officials said the Russian government had effectively been told that failure to back the American campaign could jeopardize its huge stake in Iraq, where Russian oil companies hold billions of dollars in oil rights and Baghdad owes a long unpaid $8 billion debt to Moscow.
On a host of other fronts, from the Chechnya conflict to Russian-American trade relations, the White House had signaled that it would respond generously to a show of Russian support in Iraq. 
"The question you need to ask is whether, at the end of the day when the moment of truth arrives, the Russians are going to get in the way or not," one senior administration official, said in a conversation last month. "I think they understand the importance."
But when forced to choose, Mr. Rogov and other Russian experts say, the Kremlin decided that a cold calculation of its interests dictated that it side with France and Germany in opposing war, not in quietly assenting to American pressure.
Economics is again a key factor, but not necessarily in Washington's favor. In purely monetary terms, war-wary Europe easily trumps the United States: Russian trade with Germany alone roughly equals that with America, and Russia's biggest company, the state-controlled monopoly Gazprom, supplies a healthy share of Europe's natural gas. 
Hints by the United States that Russian oil contracts in Iraq were at stake in the current debate proved to carry little weight in a nation that already rivals Saudi Arabia as an oil producer, and sits atop some of the world's largest oil reserves.
In the view of Mr. Rogov and others, the notion that Russia could be lured with financial carrots or beaten into submission with sticks was not just crude but wildly overrated.
"What if Russia does not support the U.S. in Iraq," he asked. "What will the U.S. do? Will it give up cooperating with Russia in Afghanistan? Will it stop buying Russian oil? The U.S. already is not buying Russian oil.
"The idea somehow that Russia could be punished for disagreeing with the United States -- well, you're not going to impose sanctions on France," Mr. Rogov said. "I see, really, a kind of a hangover in Washington as a result of the enormous arrogance which was dominant in the last several months or years."
As described by experts here, however, Russia's concerns about the Iraq conflict go well beyond oil contracts or trade relations with the United States.
Mr. Putin's popularity appears bulletproof. But nearly 9 in 10 Russians oppose war in Iraq, according to recent polls, and nearly 1 in 10 Russians is a Muslim. 
Russia's rocky experience in Chechnya, where terrorism culminated last fall in a massive hostage-taking at a Moscow theater, has left it wary of backing an Islamic war that could further inflame its domestic problems. 
Despite all that, some here said today, the United States might have won Russian support for military action against Baghdad had it been able to mount an argument on what the Russians see as the merits of the case. 
But here too, Russian critics say, the White House fell short by failing to prove to their satisfaction that Saddam Hussein poses such an imminent threat to global security that he must be forcibly disarmed. 
Vladimir Lukin, the deputy speaker of Russia's lower house of Parliament and a former ambassador to the United States, cast it in an interview as an issue of principle. "We have problems in Georgia," he said. But as to war, he said, "the international community says it is not correct, and we comply. It's the normal behavior of all democratic states." 
That the United States has signaled its readiness to discard those international guidelines with Iraq that in the end made it far easier for Russia to oppose its partner, several analysts noted today. For if Russia stood alone in the Western world in opposing intervention in Yugoslavia or the expansion of NATO, it stands with two of Washington's most important European allies in opposing war in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (60%); RELIGION (51%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; TERRORISM; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; HOSTAGES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



203 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Let Them Hate as Long as They Fear 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"Why does our president condone the swaggering and contemptuous approach to our friends and allies this administration is fostering, including among its most senior officials? Has 'oderint dum metuant' really become our motto?" So reads the resignation letter of John Brady Kiesling, a career diplomat who recently left the Foreign Service in protest against Bush administration policy.
 "Oderint dum metuant" translates, roughly, as "let them hate as long as they fear." It was a favorite saying of the emperor Caligula, and may seem over the top as a description of current U.S. policy. But this week's crisis in U.S.-Mexican relations -- a crisis that has been almost ignored north of the border -- suggests that it is a perfect description of George Bush's attitude toward the world. 
 Mexico is an enormously important ally, not just because of our common border, but also because of its special role as a showcase for American ideals. For a century and a half Mexico has -- often with good reason -- seen its powerful neighbor as an exploiter, if not an outright enemy. Since the first Bush administration, however, the United States has made great efforts to treat Mexico as a partner, and Mexico's recent track record of economic stability and democracy is, and should be, a source of pride on both sides of the border.
But Mexico's seat on the U.N. Security Council gives it a vote on the question of Iraq -- and the threats the Bush administration has made to get that vote are quickly destroying any semblance of good will.
Last week The Economist quoted an American diplomat who warned that if Mexico didn't vote for a U.S. resolution it could "stir up feelings" against Mexicans in the United States. He compared the situation to that of Japanese-Americans who were interned after 1941, and wondered whether Mexico "wants to stir the fires of jingoism during a war."
Incredible stuff, but easy to dismiss as long as the diplomat was unidentified. Then came President Bush's Monday interview with Copley News Service. He alluded to the possibility of reprisals if Mexico didn't vote America's way, saying, "I don't expect there to be significant retribution from the government" -- emphasizing the word "government." He then went on to suggest that there might, however, be a reaction from other quarters, citing "an interesting phenomena taking place here in America about the French . . . a backlash against the French, not stirred up by anybody except the people."
And Mr. Bush then said that if Mexico or other countries oppose the United States, "there will be a certain sense of discipline."
These remarks went virtually unreported by the ever-protective U.S. media, but they created a political firestorm in Mexico. The White House has been frantically backpedaling, claiming that when Mr. Bush talked of "discipline" he wasn't making a threat. But in the context of the rest of the interview, it's clear that he was.
Moreover, Mr. Bush was disingenuous when he described the backlash against the French as "not stirred up by anybody except the people." On the same day that the report of his interview appeared, The Financial Times carried the headline, "Hastert Orchestrates Tirade Against the French." That's Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House of Representatives. In fact, anti-French feeling has been carefully fomented by Republican officials, Rupert Murdoch's media empire and other administration allies. Can you blame Mexicans for interpreting Mr. Bush's remarks as a threat to do the same to them?
So oderint dum metuant it is. I could talk about the foolishness of such blatant bullying -- or about the incredible risks, in a multiethnic, multiracial society, of even hinting that one might encourage a backlash against Hispanics. And yes, I mean Hispanics, not Mexicans: once feelings are running high, do you really think people will politely ask a brown-skinned guy with an accent whether he is a citizen or, if not, which country he comes from?
But my most intense reaction to this story isn't anger over the administration's stupidity and irresponsibility, or even dismay over the casual destruction of hard-won friendships. No, when I read an interview in which the U.S. president sounds for all the world like a B-movie villain -- "You have relatives in Texas, yes?" -- what I feel, above all, is shame. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (59%); ASIAN AMERICANS (50%) BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



204 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: What a Little War in Iraq Could Do 

BYLINE:  By Michael Walzer; Michael Walzer, professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study and co-editor of Dissent, is author of "Just and Unjust Wars."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
The United States is marching to war as if there were no alternative. Judging from President Bush's press conference last night, the administration seems to have no exit strategy, no contingency plans to stop the march. Our leaders have created a situation where any failure to fight would count as a victory for Saddam Hussein and Jacques Chirac.
 Would that victory be worse than the war itself? It could be, if it served only to postpone the war. The French would claim to have saved the peace; Saddam Hussein would claim to have defeated the American effort to overthrow him. But then, down the road, the United States would almost certainly have to fight under harder conditions against a stronger Iraq. 
 The American march is depressing, but the failure of opponents of the war to offer a plausible alternative is equally depressing. France and Russia undoubtedly raised the diplomatic stakes on Wednesday by threatening to veto a new Security Council resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq. But they once again failed to follow up the rhetoric with anything meaningful.
What would a plausible alternative look like? The way to avoid a big war is to intensify the little war that the United States is already fighting. It is using force against Iraq every day -- to protect the no-flight zones and to stop and search ships heading for Iraqi ports. Only the American threat to use force makes the inspections possible -- and possibly effective.
When the French claim that force is a "last resort," they are denying that the little war is going on. And, indeed, France is not participating in it in any significant way. The little war isalmost entirely the work of American and British forces; the opponents of the big war have not been prepared to join or support or even acknowledge the work that the little war requires.
But Mr. Bush could stop the American march toward the big war if he challenged the French (and the Germans and the Russians) to join the little war. The result would not be a victory for Mr. Hussein or Mr. Chirac, and it would ensure that the Iraqi regime would get weaker over time.
So here is an exit strategy for the Bush administration. They haven't asked for it, but they need it. First, extend the northern and southern no-flight zones to include the whole country. America has already drastically restricted Iraqi sovereignty, so this would not be anything new. There are military reasons for the extension -- the range of missiles, the speed of planes, the reach of radar all make it difficult for the United States and Britain to defend the northern and the southern regions of Iraq without control of central airspace. But the main reason would be punitive: Iraq has never accepted the containment regime put in place after the gulf war, and its refusal to do that should lead to tighter and tighter containment.
Second, impose the "smart sanctions" that the Bush administration talked about before 9/11 and insist that Iraq's trading partners commit themselves to enforcing them. Washington should announce sanctions of its own against countries that don't cooperate, and it should also punish any companies that try to sell military equipment to Iraq. Third, the United States should expand the United Nations' monitoring system in all the ways that have recently been proposed: adding inspectors, bringing in United Nations soldiers (to guard military installations after they have been inspected), sending surveillance planes without providing 48 hours' notice, and so on. 
Finally, the United States should challenge the French to make good on their claim that force is indeed a last resort by mobilizing troops of their own and sending them to the gulf. Otherwise, what they are saying is that if things get very bad, they will unleash the American army. And Saddam Hussein knows that the French will never admit that things have gotten that bad. So, if they are serious, the French have to mount a credible threat of their own. Or better, they have to join the United States in every aspect of the little war.
If an American proposal along these lines received strong international support, if there was a real commitment to sustain the little war for as long as necessary, there would be no good reason for the big war. The march could safely be stopped. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (83%); VETO (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) WALZER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



205 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: White House and Europe To Cooperate on Hydrogen 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
As part of the Bush administration's recent high-profile push to develop hydrogen as the fuel of the future, the Energy Department and the European Union agreed yesterday to start a cooperative effort aimed at bringing hydrogen-powered cars and electricity generated from fuel cells to market over the next two decades.
 But important differences emerged in their approaches to the energy technology, largely driven by a much greater urgency in Europe than in the United States to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases scientists say contribute to global warming. The European Union, for instance, plans to derive significant quantities of hydrogen from water using renewable energy sources, while the Bush administration is focusing on experimental coal technology. 
 More significant, the European Union has set aggressive goals, including a plan to replace 20 percent of the fuel now used to run vehicles with alternative energy sources by 2020, while the Bush administration has not. The European Union also plans to develop the hydrogen technology while trying to reduce gasoline consumption now by sharply tightening vehicle fuel efficiency standards, an effort that has stagnated for more than a decade in the United States. 
The agreement was announced in Brussels yesterday after a meeting between Romano Prodi, the president of the European Commission, and Spencer Abraham, the United States Energy Secretary. The agreement had sat unsigned for several years, a senior energy department official said, but was dusted off after President Bush announced the government's renewed interest in supporting hydrogen technology during his State of the Union address this year.
"We have the same goal, though the research has different characteristics," Mr. Prodi said in a telephone interview after meeting with Mr. Abraham. "We can work together to get the best results."
Through a chemical process in fuel cells, hydrogen can generate electricity, with water vapor as the only emission. While most everyone, including major oil companies, agrees that hydrogen would be an ideal fuel, it is far from commercially viable.
Electricity has to be used to isolate hydrogen from water, and a point of contention among the many parties interested in hydrogen technology is how that energy is generated, whether by using natural gas, coal or renewable sources. Right now, less than 5 percent of the world's limited hydrogen production comes from renewable sources, according to Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, a trade publication.
But Mr. Prodi and the American energy official portrayed their different approaches as complementary, rather than conflicting. "The big difference is where we plan to take the energy from to produce the hydrogen," Mr. Prodi said. "In the European Union, we don't have cheap coal. But in the U.S., there is a lot of cheap coal."
Both sides say that the goal of the American research effort is to avoid generating more carbon dioxide simply to isolate hydrogen as a fuel that does not produce global warming gases. The administration is supporting a major $1 billion project aimed at developing a method to isolate permanently in the ground the carbon dioxide in coal that would normally be released to the atmosphere when it is burned. "It really gets my goat, the idea that we would take emission-free technology and taint it with dirty methods," the Energy Department official said. "That is not part of our plan."
The European Union plans to invest 2.2 billion euros ($2.4 billion) over five years in its hydrogen project, compared with the Bush administration's proposal to spend $1.7 billion for a similar period, European and American officials said.
Some of that money will go to fostering research among large automakers, utilities and oil companies into fuel cell technology and an infrastructure of hydrogen service stations. Companies maintain they need government aid and broad-based partnerships with other corporations to make their technology commercially viable.
Still, with the prospect of affordable hydrogen cars a distant dream, the European Union is working in the interim on mandating higher vehicle fuel efficiency, said Jeremy Rifkin, president of the Foundation on Economic Trends in Washington and an adviser to Mr. Prodi. The Bush administration is considering a proposal to increase fuel efficiency on sport utility vehicles by 1.5 miles per gallon over three years. Some renewable energy experts like Mr. Rifkin argue that Europe and the United States are likely to clash, rather than cooperate, over future energy strategies.
"In Europe, there is a deeply felt sense of stewardship of the environment that is not felt here," Mr. Rifkin said. "It is so fundamentally different that in 10, 20, 30 years, it is going to create a lot of rifts."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since September 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (91%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) AIR POLLUTION; HYDROGEN; AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FUEL CELLS; CARBON DIOXIDE; GLOBAL WARMING; WEATHER; WATER; COAL 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BANERJEE, NEELA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PRODI, ROMANO; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



206 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 4643 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
Excerpts From Bush's News Conference on Iraq and Likelihood of War

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's news conference last night, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is online at nytimes.com/iraq.

Opening Statement
 This has been an important week on two fronts on our war against terror. First, thanks to the hard work of American and Pakistani officials, we captured the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks against our nation. Khalid Sheik Mohammed conceived and planned the hijackings and directed the actions of the hijackers. We believe his capture will further disrupt the terror network and their planning for additional attacks. 
 Second, we have arrived at an important moment in confronting the threat posed to our nation and to peace by Saddam Hussein and his weapons of terror. In New York tomorrow, the United Nations Security Council will receive an update from the chief weapons inspector.
The world needs him to answer a single question: Has the Iraqi regime fully and unconditionally disarmed as required by Resolution 1441, or has it not?
Iraqi's dictator has made a public show of producing and destroying a few missiles, missiles that violate the restrictions set out more than 10 years ago. Yet our intelligence shows that even as he is destroying these few missiles, he has ordered the continued production of the very same type of missiles.
Iraqi operatives continue to hide biological and chemical agents to avoid detection by inspectors. In some cases these materials have been moved to different locations every 12 to 24 hours, or placed in vehicles that are in residential neighborhoods.
We know from multiple intelligence sources that Iraqi weapons scientists continue to be threatened with harm should they cooperate with U.N. inspectors. Scientists are required by Iraqi intelligence to wear concealed recording devices during interviews. And hotels where the interviews take place are bugged by the regime.
These are not the actions of a regime that is disarming. These are the actions of a regime engaged in a willful charade. These are the actions of a regime that systematically and deliberately is defying the world. 
If the Iraqi regime were disarming, we would know it because we would see it. Iraq's weapons would be presented to inspectors and the world would witness their destruction. 
Instead, with the world demanding disarmament and more than 200,000 troops positioned near his country, Saddam Hussein's response is to produce a few weapons for show while he hides the rest and builds even more.
Inspection teams do not need more time or more personnel. All they need is what they have never received, the full cooperation of the Iraqi regime. Token gestures are not acceptable. The only acceptable outcome is the one already defined by a unanimous vote of the Security Council: total disarmament.
Great Britain, Spain and the United States have introduced a new resolution stating that Iraq has failed to meet the requirements of Resolution 1441. Saddam Hussein is not disarming. This is a fact. It cannot be denied. 
Saddam Hussein has a long history of reckless aggression and terrible crimes. He possesses weapons of terror. He provides funding and training and safe haven to terrorists, terrorists who would willingly use weapons of mass destruction against America and other peace-loving countries. Saddam Hussein and his weapons are a direct threat to this country, to our people and to all free people. 
If the world fails to confront the threat posed by the Iraqi regime, refusing to use force even as a last resort, free nations would assume immense and unacceptable risks.
The attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, showed what the enemies of America did with four airplanes. We will not wait to see what terrorists or terrorist states could do with weapons of mass destruction. We are determined to confront threats wherever they arise. I will not leave the American people at the mercy of the Iraqi dictator and his weapons.
In the event of conflict, America also accepts our responsibility to protect innocent lives in every way possible. We will bring food and medicine to the Iraqi people. We will help that nation to build a just government after decades of brutal dictatorship. The form and leadership of that government is for the Iraqi people to choose. Anything they choose will be better than the misery and torture and murder they have known under Saddam Hussein.
Across the world and in every part of America people of good will are hoping and praying for peace. Our goal is peace -- for our nation, for our friends and allies, for the people of the Middle East.
People of good will must also recognize that allowing a dangerous dictator to defy the world and harbor weapons of mass murder and terror is not peace at all, it is pretense. The cause of peace will be advanced only when the terrorists lose a wealthy patron and protector, and when the dictator is fully and finally disarmed.
Tonight I thank the men and women of our armed services and their families. I know their deployment so far from home is causing hardship for many military families. Our nation is deeply grateful to all who serve in uniform. We appreciate your commitment, your idealism and your sacrifice. We support you. And we know that if peace must be defended you are ready.

Questions and Answers
Q. Let me see if I can further, if you could further define what you just called this important moment we're in, since you've made it clear just now that you don't think Saddam has disarmed and we have a quarter million troops in the Persian Gulf. And now that you've called on the world to be ready to use force as a last resort. Are we just days away from the point at which you decide whether or not we go to war? And what harm would it do to give Saddam a final ultimatum, a two or three day deadline to disarm or face force?
A. Well, we're still in the final stages of diplomacy. I'm spending a lot of time on the phone talking to fellow leaders about the need for the United Nations Security Council to state the facts, which is Saddam Hussein hasn't disarmed. 1441, the Security Council resolution passed unanimously last fall, it said clearly that Saddam Hussein has one last chance to disarm. He hasn't disarmed. So we're working with Security Council members to resolve this issue at the Security Council. 
This is not only an important moment for the security of our nation, I believe it's an important moment for the Security Council itself. And the reason I say that is because this issue has been before the Security Council, the issue of disarmament of Iraq, for 12 long years. And the fundamental question facing the Security Council is, Will his words mean anything? When the Security Council speaks, will the words have merit and weight? I think it's important for those words to have merit and weight. Because I understand that in order to win the war against terror there must be a united effort to do so. That we must work together to defeat terror. 
Iraq is a part of the war on terror. Iraq is a country that has got terrorist ties. It's a country with wealth. It's a country that trains terrorists, a country that could arm terrorists. 
And our fellow Americans must understand in this new war against terror that we not only must chase down Al Qaeda terrorists, we must deal with weapons of mass destruction as well. That's what the United Nations Security Council has been talking about for 12 long years. It's now time for this issue to come to a head at the Security Council. And it will. 
As far as ultimatums and all the speculation about what may or may not happen after next week we'll just wait and see. . . . 
Q. Mr. President, you have, and your top advisers, notably Secretary of State Powell, have repeatedly said that we have shared with our allies all the current up-to-date intelligence information that proves the imminence of the threat we face from Saddam Hussein and that they have been sharing their intelligence with us as well. If all these nations, all of them our normal allies, have access to the same intelligence information, why is it that they are reluctant to think that the threat is so real, so imminent, that we need to move to the brink of war now? And in relation to that, today the British foreign minister, Jack Straw, suggested at the U.N. that it might be time to look at amending the resolution, perhaps with an eye toward a timetable like that proposed by the Canadians some two weeks ago that would set a firm deadline to give Saddam Hussein a little bit of time to come clean and also, obviously, that would give you a little bit of a chance to build more support within members of the Security Council. Is that something that the governments should be pursuing at the U.N. right now? 
A. We, of course, are consulting with our allies at the United Nations. But I meant what I said: this is the last phase of diplomacy. The -- a little bit more time -- Saddam Hussein has had 12 years to disarm. He is deceiving people. 
That's what's important for our fellow citizens to realize: that if he really intended to disarm like the world has asked him to do, we would know whether he was disarming. He's trying to buy time. I can understand why. He's been successful with these tactics for 12 years. 
Saddam Hussein is a threat to our nation. Sept. 11 changed the strategic thinking, at least as far as I was concerned, for how to protect our country. My job is to protect the American people. 
It used to be that we could think that you could contain a person like Saddam Hussein, that oceans would protect us from his type of terror. 
But Sept. 11 should say to the American people that we're now a battlefield, that weapons of mass destruction in the hands of a terrorist organization could be deployed here at home. And so therefore I think the threat is real. And so do a lot of other people in my government. And since I believe the threat is real and since my most important job is to protect the security of the American people, that's precisely what we'll do. 
Our demands are that Saddam Hussein disarm. We hope he does. We have worked with the international community to convince him to disarm. 
If he doesn't disarm, we'll disarm him. 
You asked about sharing of intelligence and I appreciate that because we do share a lot of intelligence with nations which may or may not agree with us in the Security Council as to how to deal with Saddam Hussein and his threats. 
We have got roughly 90 countries engaged in Operation Enduring Freedom chasing down the terrorists. We do communicate a lot. And we will continue to communicate a lot. We must communicate. We must share intelligence. We must share -- we must cut off money together. We must smoke these Al Qaeda types out one at a time. 
It's in our national interest as well that we deal with Saddam Hussein. 
But America is not alone in this sentiment. There are a lot of countries who fully understand the threat of Saddam Hussein. A lot of countries realize that the credibility of the SecurityCouncil is at stake. A lot of countries like America who hope that he would have disarmed and a lot of countries which realize that it may require force -- may require force to disarm him. 
Q. Sir, if you haven't already made the choice to go to war, can you tell us what you are waiting to hear or see before you do make that decision? And if I may, during the recent demonstrations many of the protesters suggested that the U.S. was a threat to peace, which prompted you to wonder out loud why they didn't see Saddam Hussein as a threat to peace. I wonder why you think so many people around the world take a different view of the threat that Saddam Hussein poses than you and your allies?
A. Well first, I, you know, I appreciate societies in which people can express their opinion. That society of free speech stands in stark contrast to Iraq.
Secondly, I've seen all kinds of protests since I've been the president. I remember the protests against trade. A lot of people didn't feel like free trade was good for the world. I completely disagree. I think free trade is good for both wealthy and impoverished nations. That didn't change my opinion about trade. As a matter of fact, I went to the Congress to get trade promotion authority out.
I recognize there are people who don't like war. I don't like war. I wish that Saddam Hussein had listened to the demands of the world and disarmed. That was my hope. That's why I first went to the United Nations to begin with on Sept. 12, 2002, to address this issue as forthrightly as I knew how. That's why months later we went to the Security Council to get another resolution called 1441, which was unanimously approved by the Security Council demanding that Saddam Hussein disarm.
I'm hopeful that he does disarm. But in the name of peace and the security of our people, if he won't do so voluntarily we will disarm him. And other nations will join him -- join us in disarming him. And that, that creates a certain sense of anxiety. I understand that. Nobody likes war. 
The only thing I can do is assure the loved ones of those who wear our uniform that if we have to go to war, if war is upon us because Saddam Hussein has made that choice, we will have the best equipment available for our troops, the best plan available for victory, and we will respect innocent life in Iraq.
The risk of doing nothing, the risk of hoping that Saddam Hussein changes his mind and becomes a gentle soul, the risk that somehow, that inaction will make the world safer is a risk I'm not willing to take for the American people.
Q. How would you answer your critics who say that they think this is somehow personal? As Senator Kennedy put it tonight, he said your fixation with Saddam Hussein is making the world a more dangerous place. And as you prepare the American people for the possibility of military conflict, could you share with us any of the scenarios your advisers have shared with you about worst case scenarios in terms of the potential cost of American lives, the potential cost to the American economy, and the potential risks of retaliatory terrorist strikes here at home?
A. My job is to protect America. And that's exactly what I'm going to do. People can ascribe all kinds of intentions. I swore to protect and defend the Constitution. That's what I swore to do. I put my hand on the Bible and took that oath. And that's exactly what I am going to do. 
I believe Saddam Hussein is a threat to the American people. I believe he's a threat to the neighborhood in which he lives. And I've got good evidence to believe that. He has weapons of mass destruction and he has used weapons of mass destruction, in his neighborhood and on his own people. He's invaded countries in his neighborhood. He tortures his own people. He's a murderer. He has trained and financed Al Qaeda-type organizations before, Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations.
I take the threat seriously. And I'll deal with the threat. I hope it can be done peacefully.
Q. The potential price in terms of costs to the economy, terrorism?
A. The price of doing nothing exceeds the price of taking action if we have to. We will do everything we can to minimize the loss of life. The price of the attacks on America, the cost of the attacks on American on Sept. 11 were enormous. They were significant. And I am not willing to take that chance again.
Q. In the past several weeks your policy on Iraq has generated opposition from the governments of France, Russia, China, Germany, Turkey, the Arab League and many other countries; opened a rift at NATO and at the U.N.; and drawn millions of ordinary citizens around the world into the streets in antiwar protests. I ask what went wrong? That so many governments and peoples around the world now not only disagree with you very strongly but see the U.S. under your leadership as an arrogant power.
A. I think if you remember back prior to the resolution coming out of the United Nations last fall I suspect you might have asked a question along those lines: "How come you can't get anybody to support your resolution?" If I remember correctly there was a lot of doubt as to whether or not we were even going to get any votes. Well, we'd get our own, of course. And the vote came out 15 to nothing. 
And I think you'll see when it's all said and done if we have to use force a lot of nations will be with us. You clearly named some that -- France and Germany have expressed their opinions. We have a disagreement over how best to deal with Saddam Hussein. I understand that. Having said that, they're still our friends and we will deal with them as friends. We've got a lot of common interests. 
Our transatlantic relationships are very important. While they may disagree with how we deal with Saddam Hussein and his weapons of mass destruction, there was no disagreement when it came time to vote on 1441, at least as far as France was concerned. They joined us. They said Saddam Hussein has one last chance of disarming. If they think more time will cause him to disarm I disagree with that. He's a master at deception. He has no intention of disarming, otherwise we would have known. 
There's a lot of talk about inspectors. It really would have taken a handful to inspectors to determine whether he was disarming. They could have showed up at a parking lot and he could have brought his weapons and destroyed them. That's not what he chose to do. 
Secondly, I make my decisions based upon the oath I took, the one I just described to you. I believe Saddam Hussein is a threat, is a threat to the American people. He's a threat to people in his neighborhood. He's also a threat to the Iraqi people. 
One of the things we love in America is freedom. If I may, I'd like to remind you what I said at the State of the Union: Liberty is not America's gift to the world. It is God's gift to each and every person. And that's what I believe. 
I believe that when we see totalitarianism that we must deal with it. We don't have to do it always militarily, but this is a unique circumstance, because of 12 years of denial and defiance, because of terrorist connections, because of past history. I'm convinced that a liberated Iraq will be important for that troubled part of the world. The Iraqi people are plenty capable of governing themselves. Iraq's a sophisticated society. Iraq's got money. Iraq will provide a place where people can see that the Shia and the Sunni and the Kurds can get along in a federation. Iraq will serve as a catalyst for change, positive change. 
So there's a lot more at stake than just American security and the security of people close by Saddam Hussein. Freedom is at stake as well. And I take that very seriously. 
Q. If you order war, can any military operation be considered a success if the United States does not capture Saddam Hussein, as you once said, dead or alive? 
A. Well, I hope we don't have to go to war. But if we go to war, we will disarm Iraq. And if we go to war, there will be a regime change. And replacing this cancer inside of Iraq will be a government that represents the rights of all the people, a government which represents the voices of the Shia and the Sunni and the Kurds. 
We care about the suffering of the Iraqi people. I mentioned in my opening comments that there's a lot of food ready to go in. There are something like 55,000 oil-for-food distribution points in Iraq. We know where they are. We fully intend to make sure that they're got ample food. We know where their hospitals are. We want to make sure they've got ample medical supplies. . . . 
Q. As you said, the Security Council faces a vote next week on a resolution implicitly authorizing an attack on Iraq. Will you call for a vote on that resolution even if you aren't sure you have the votes? 
A. Yes. Well, first, I don't think -- it basically says that he's in defiance of 1441. That's what the resolution says. And it's hard to believe anybody saying he isn't in defiance of 1441 because 1441 said he must disarm. And, yes, we'll call for a vote. 
Q. No matter what? 
A. No matter what the whip count is, we're calling for the vote. We want to see people stand up and say what their opinion is about Saddam Hussein and the utility of the United Nations Security Council. And so, you bet. It's time for people to show their cards and to let the world know where they stand when it comes to Saddam. 
Q. Are you worried that the United States might be viewed as defiant of the United Nations if you went ahead with military action without specific and explicit authorization from the U.N.?
A. No. I'm not worried about that. As a matter of fact, it's hard to say the United States is defiant about the United Nations when I was the person that took the issue to the United Nations on Sept. 12, 2002. We've been working with the United Nations. We've been working through the United Nations.
Secondly, I'm confident the American people understand that when it comes to our security if we need to act we will act. And we really don't need the United Nations' approval to do so. I want to work -- I want the United Nations to be effective. It's important for it to be a robust, capable body. It's important for its word to mean what they say. 
And as we head into the 21st century, when it comes to our security, we really don't need anybody's permission. . . . 
Q. As the nation is at odds over war, with many organizations like the Congressional Black Caucus pushing for continued diplomacy through the U.N., how is your faith guiding you? And what should you tell America or what should America do collectively as you instructed before 9/11? Should it pray? Because you're saying let's continue the war on terror.
A. I appreciate that question a lot. First, for those who urge more diplomacy I would simply say that diplomacy hasn't worked. We've tried diplomacy for 12 years. Saddam Hussein hasn't disarmed, he's armed. 
And we live in a dangerous world. We live in new circumstances in our country. And I hope people remember the, I know they remember the tragedy of Sept. 11, but I hope they understand the lesson of Sept. 11. The lesson is that we're vulnerable to attack wherever it may occur. And we must take threats which gather overseas very seriously. We don't have to deal with them all militarily. But we must deal with them.
And in the case of Iraq, it is now time for him to disarm for the sake of peace. If we have to use our troops we will.
My faith sustains me. Because I pray daily. I pray for guidance and wisdom and strength. If we were to commit our troops, if we were to commit our troops, I would pray for their safety. And I would pray for the safety of innocent Iraqi lives as well.
One thing that's really great about our country is there are thousands of people who pray for me -- who I'll never see, be able to thank. But it's a humbling experience to think that people I will never have met have lifted me and my family up in prayer. And for that I'm grateful. That's, it's been, it's been a comforting feeling to know that is true.
I pray for peace. I pray for peace. . . . 
Q. You've talked a lot about trusting the American people when it comes to making decisions about their own lives, about how to spend their own money. When it comes to the financial cost of the war, sir, it would seem that the administration surely has costed out various scenarios. If that's the case, why not present some of them to the American people so they know what to expect, sir?
A. We will. We'll present it in the form of a supplemental to the spenders. We don't get to spend the money, as you know, we have to request the expenditure money from the Congress. And at the appropriate time we'll request a supplemental. We're obviously analyzing all aspects. We hope we don't go to war. But if we should we will present a supplemental. 
But I want to remind you what I said before. There is a huge cost when we get attacked. There is a significant cost to our society. First of all, there is the cost of lives. It's an immeasurable cost. Three thousand people died. A significant cost to our economy. Opportunity loss is an immeasurable cost besides the cost of repairing buildings and cost to our airlines. 
The cost of an attack is significant. If I thought we were safe from attack I would be thinking differently. But I see a gathering threat. I mean it's a true, real threat to America. And therefore, we will deal with it. And at the appropriate time, Ed, we will ask for a supplemental. And that will be the moment where you and others will be able to recognize what we think the dollar cost of a conflict will be. 
You know, the benefits of such a, of such a effort if in fact we go forward and are successful are also immeasurable. How do you measure the benefit of freedom in Iraq? I guess if you're an Iraqi citizen you can measure it by being able to express your mind. And how do you measure the consequence of taking a dictator out of power who has tried to invade Kuwait? Or somebody who may someday decide to lob a weapon of mass destruction on Israel? How would you weigh the cost of that? Those are immeasurable costs. And I weigh those very seriously. In terms of the dollar amount we'll let you know here pretty soon. . . . 
Q. Millions of Americans can recall a time when leaders from both parties set this country on a mission of regime change in Vietnam. Fifty thousand Americans died. The regime is still there in Hanoi. And hasn't harmed or threatened a single American in the 30 years since the war ended. What can you say tonight, sir, to the sons and the daughters of the Americans who served in Vietnam to assure them that you will not lead this country down a similar path in Iraq?
A. That's a great question. Our mission is clear in Iraq. Should we have to go in our mission is very clear: disarmament. And in order to disarm it will mean regime change. I'm confident we'll be able to achieve that objective in a way that minimizes the loss of life. No doubt, there's risks with any military operation. I know that. But it's very clear what we intend to do. And our mission won't change. Our mission is precisely what I just stated. We have got a plan that will achieve that mission should we need to send forces in. 
Q.In the coming days the American people are going to hear a lot of debate about this British proposal of a possible deadline being added to the resolution or not. And I know you don't want to tip your hand, this is a great diplomatic moment, but from the administration's perspective and your own perspective can you share for the American public what you view as the pros and cons associated with that proposal?
A. You're right I'm not going to tip my hand. 
Q. But can you help them sort out the debate?
A. Thank you. Anything that's debated must have resolution to this issue. It makes no sense to allow this issue to continue on and on in the hopes that Saddam Hussein disarms. The whole purpose of the debate is for Saddam to disarm. We gave him a chance. As a matter of fact, we gave him 12 years of chances. But recently we gave him a chance starting last fall. And it said last chance to disarm. The resolution said that. And had he chosen to do so it would be evident that he's disarmed. So more time, more inspectors, more process in our judgment is not going to affect the peace of the world. So whatever is resolved is going to have some finality to it. So that Saddam Hussein will take us seriously. 
I want to remind you that it's his choice to make as to whether or not we go to war. It's Saddam's choice. He's the person that can make the choice of war and peace. Thus far he's made the wrong choice. If we have to for the sake of the security of the American people, for the sake of peace in the world and for freedom for the Iraqi people we will disarm Saddam Hussein. By we, it's more than America. A lot of nations will join us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HIJACKING (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



207 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: PAKISTAN; 
Musharraf Facing Decision In the Security Council Soon

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 6 

 BODY:
During the next week the government of President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan may face an unwelcome moment of truth on the United Nations Security Council. 
 Should Pakistan, a rotating member of the Council, support a resolution, unpopular at home, that would back an American-led attack on fellow Muslims in Iraq? Or should it risk the wrath of the United States, General Musharraf's vital but possibly fickle ally? 
 In a country tattered by religious and political conflict, the choice is excruciating, with possible effects on Pakistan's social stability, its paramount foreign policy goals in Kashmir and its broader strategic position -- not to mention General Musharraf's own standing. 
Most Pakistanis have little love for Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, who has never offered strong support against India over the disputed territory of Kashmir -- an emotional core issue in Pakistan's foreign policy. But most people are also deeply suspicious of American goals in the Middle East and strongly oppose an attack on Iraq. General Musharraf faces agitation from emboldened, hard-line Islamic groups. 
Washington's aggressive policy on Iraq has become a rallying cry among the conservative Islamic parties that speak for a vociferous minority of Pakistanis. The religious parties are organizing large street demonstrations. More than 200,000, by some estimates, turned out last Sunday in Karachi, and another rally is scheduled in Rawalpindi this weekend. The mullahs have accused General Musharraf of selling out to what they call the evil, anti-Muslim American empire. 
But General Musharraf's sense of Pakistan's strategic and economic needs argues against the popular sensibility, diplomats and political experts say, just as it did after Sept. 11, when, to avert catastrophe, he severed ties with the Taliban and joined the war against terrorism. 
"I don't think the government will do anything that undermines the relationship with the United States," said Rashid Ahmed Khan, a political scientist at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute, an independent group. "And I think this is supported by the majority of the people." 
A firm decision on a Security Council vote has been put off until the last moment, officials say. In the end, political experts and diplomats say, it seems quite possible that Pakistan will vote to support the United States position, especially if its vote becomes decisive. At the least, the experts say, it will abstain. 
The vote is one that General Musharraf may prefer to avoid. In any event, General Musharraf appears strong enough to weather any domestic fallout, most experts here believe, just as he did when angry demonstrations spiked then died out as the United States started bombing the Taliban in the fall of 2001. 
"If he votes yes, I think we'll see some heat on the streets for a few weeks," a Western diplomat said. "But I think Musharraf can ride it out." 
A deeper, long-term threat to relations with Washington is a surge in anti-American sentiment here, even among better educated and prosperous Pakistanis. Some see the United States as a fair-weather friend, the diplomat said, an arrogant power that has not kept its promises to make India negotiate over Kashmir and that is blindly supportive of Israel in its conflict with the Palestinians. 
Among the moderate political elite and senior military officers, such emotions may coexist with a pragmatic sense of Pakistan's interests, the political experts say. But in the current situation, having come to power in a military coup, General Musharraf has suppressed mainstream civilian political parties and the hard-line religious groups may have a voice beyond their actual following. 
"There is an odd political vacuum, and the religious parties are filling it," a European diplomat said. "The Islamic parties are setting the political agenda." 
At least two recent phone calls to General Musharraf by President Bush and a visit last week by a senior State Department official attest to the intense lobbying and, no doubt, horse-trading in the event of a United Nations vote. 
Pakistan was rewarded after its decisive policy switch in the aftermath of Sept. 11. The United States has provided more than $1 billion in aid to Pakistan and has helped it reschedule more than $12 billion in debt, an American diplomat said. 
Given the current hypersensitive nationalistic atmosphere in Pakistan, any new demands, offers or threats have been kept secret. Pakistan certainly wants more debt relief, greater trade access for its textiles and military equipment, diplomats say. Most of all, General Musharraf would benefit politically -- even among the Islamists -- from a stronger American role in Kashmir, pushing India into talks it has resisted. 
Pakistan is seeking compensation for the indirect costs a war in Iraq war may impose, Mr. Khan said. Economists here are warning of economic devastation that would result from a jump in oil prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TALIBAN (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



208 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: City Is Seeking Bigger Role In Rebuilding 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration has proposed a broad revamping of the city-state agency overseeing the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, city and state officials said yesterday. The plan would give the city more authority over the reconstruction of the World Trade Center site and billions of dollars of federal recovery money, they said.
 The proposal is part of what city and state officials call "an ongoing dialogue" over the future of the agency, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. Some of the city's ideas are unlikely to be adopted, the officials said, while others could survive. 
 The proposed changes were included in an outline sent this week by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, to John P. Cahill, the chief of staff to Gov. George E. Pataki. They would leave the development corporation with little real authority, even over a memorial to the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center, which would be developed by a new commission with the governor as chairman.
Officials who have reviewed the outline said it would give the city responsibility for overseeing the rebuilding at the trade center site, subject to the approval of an advisory board of officials from the state, the city, the development corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the owner of the site. 
That advisory board, whose chairman would be Roland W. Betts, a development corporation director, is essentially the same group that oversaw the selection of Daniel Libeskind's architectural plan for the trade center site. The effect of having such an advisory board giving approval would be much the same as in the city's proposed land swap with the Port Authority, giving the city control of the trade center site while keeping the development process exempt from the complicated public review process the city would experience, a process from which the Port Authority is exempt. 
Authority over the $1.25 billion in federal rebuilding funds that remains in the development corporation's coffers would be shared by the city and the state under the plan, the officials said. 
In addition, the plan would transfer the development corporation's planning, design and development staff to a city agency and would give the city and the development corporation's board joint authority over the development of cultural programs at the trade center site.
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Doctoroff said the proposals "are one portion of a series of ongoing conversations" between the city and the state about how to integrate the plan for the trade center site that was adopted last week, designed by Mr. Libeskind, with the city's vision for Lower Manhattan, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg outlined in December.
All of the proposals in the outline "are not going to be what ultimately happens," Mr. Doctoroff said, but he declined to specify which proposals were likely to survive.
Lisa Dewald Stoll, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, said that "discussions are ongoing" over the future of the redevelopment effort. "There are obviously a lot of ideas on how to proceed," Ms. Stoll said. "The governor loves the process so far, and he thinks it has worked very well. He wants to continue soliciting ideas." 
The city has been pushing for months for greater say over the redevelopment effort, in part because city officials said that too much of the federal recovery money was going to the 16-acre trade center site, at the expense of the broader needs of Lower Manhattan. 
To that end, in December Mr. Bloomberg released a $10.6 billion plan for Lower Manhattan, calling for the construction of new housing, more parks and open space, greater cultural offerings and improved transportation connections, including a new tunnel beneath the East River to link Lower Manhattan with the Long Island Rail Road and Kennedy Airport. 
State rebuilding officials have been receptive to some of the city's proposals. Last year, Louis R. Tomson, the governor's former aide who at the time was president of the development corporation, said he expected the governor to "find a way to accommodate them having more say." Yesterday, an official close to the governor said that Mr. Tomson's remarks still held. 
That does not mean that the city's proposals were entirely well received. Two state officials close to the governor said the city's plans would give the city far more authority than the governor would like, particularly after what he considered a successful process to develop a site plan for the trade center land.
Under Mr. Doctoroff's proposals, the development corporation would continue to administer its $300 million grant program for downtown residents, which has significantly raised occupancy rates of rental apartments in Lower Manhattan. But the agency would be restricted from approving new programs, and any spending of the remaining federal money would require the joint approval of city and state officials. 
Planning for the improvement of transportation downtown would also change under the city's proposal, coming under the authority of a committee with Mr. Cahill, Mr. Pataki's chief of staff, as chairman. The committee would include officials from the mayor's office, the city and state transportation departments, the Port Authority and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); HIJACKING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORISM (68%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) WYATT, EDWARD; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BETTS, ROLAND W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



209 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Investor Group Woos Unions In Its QuestTo Run United 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD and RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
The Texas Pacific Group, the investment firm whose partners have led turnarounds at Continental Airlines and America West, has laid out a recovery plan to United Airlines' labor unions and other creditors that includes steep cost cuts and a new management team but not the low-fare airline that has set the unions on edge.
 With United losing $12 million a day, Texas Pacific has not decided whether to proceed with its proposal, people involved in the discussions said. The plan entails the firm's lining up backers to replace the $1.5 billion in debtor-in-possession financing that United obtained when it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in December. 
 Some -- but not all -- of United's unions are promoting the plan; other groups represented on the airline's creditors' committee, whose endorsement would be critical, have been briefed on the proposal but have not signed on to it, the people involved in the discussions said. 
United's management, which has been barnstorming the country to build support for its own reorganization plan, sees the alternative proposal as evidence of desperation on the part of the unions, whose legal and economic influence is increasingly shaky. And some legal experts said it would be difficult, given bankruptcy laws, for the Texas Pacific plan to win approval from the court. 
The investment firm would install a new management team, ousting Glenn F. Tilton, who has been chief executive of the airline's parent, the UAL Corporation, since September. The unions would be required to give concessions in the range of the $2.56 billion a year, for the next six years, sought by the current management.
United's operations would shrink by 20 percent to 25 percent, with the airline scheduling fewer flights on unprofitable routes and switching to more efficient aircraft than it now flies.
But the Texas Pacific plan, according to the people involved in the discussions, does not call for creating a low-fare carrier like the one that Mr. Tilton says is vital to enabling United to compete with Southwest Airlines, JetBlue and other low-cost airlines.
United's pilots and flight attendants adamantly oppose that notion, largely because workers assigned to the new airline would be paid less, get fewer benefits and work under stricter rules. Under Texas Pacific's plan, United would pursue its traditional business customers with lower fares, rather than set up an alternative carrier to compete with Southwest and others for leisure travelers.
Over the next several weeks, employees' 55 percent ownership stake in the airline is likely to fall below 20 percent, after a recent ruling by the Internal Revenue Service allowing the employee stock ownership plan to sell more shares. Once ownership falls below 20 percent, the three employee representatives on United's board will lose crucial voting rights, including a veto over executive appointments, though they will keep their seats.
On March 17, United will have the right to file a bankruptcy court motion to be released from its labor agreements, allowing it to impose work rules in the absence of new contracts. But it is unlikely that the contracts would be voided, because the airline and unions have been negotiating in recent days on United's demand for concessions. Even this prospect could add to management's sway in those talks.
A senior United executive, who insisted on not being identified because of the sensitivity of the labor talks, said he believed that the looming "change in authority" was what had motivated United's labor unions to hold discussions with Texas Pacific and other potential bidders. The executive said that he believed that those talks were as much an emotional reaction to the unions' slipping power as an attempt to develop a serious financial alternative.
Nor does United appear to have an immediate need for the new financing that Texas Pacific would provide. The airline is performing "ahead of forecast, and its relationship with its lenders is good," one United banker said.
The Air Line Pilots Association had no comment, while United's other unions would not talk directly about the Texas Pacific proposal. A spokesman for the Association of Flight Attendants said the organization's goal was for the airline to restructure successfully. Joseph Tiberi, a spokesman for the International Association of Machinists, said the union's first priority was the contract talks with United, adding that the machinists were referring potential investors to the company.
Legal experts said that Texas Pacific or another alternative bidder for control of United would face numerous hurdles. For a 120-day period, the company has the sole right to present a restructuring plan to the court. This period of exclusivity does not expire until April 9, and it could be extended.
Moreover, any challenger would most likely need the backing of United's 13-member creditors' committee, which includes representatives not just of the unions but also the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, Airbus Industrie and the Bank of New York, representing bondholders. 
Lawyers for the creditors' committee declined to say if there was significant support for the Texas Pacific proposal. A spokesman for Texas Pacific, Owen Blicksilver, also declined to comment. 
Texas Pacific's partners and other investors made hundreds of millions of dollars by investing in Continental Airlines and America West when they filed for bankruptcy in the 1990's. Texas Pacific was also prepared to be the lead investor in US Airways when it sought bankruptcy protection last summer, but was ultimately outbid by the Retirement Systems of Alabama.
Texas Pacific made overtures to United before its filing, as well, but the airline's executives were focused on their unsuccessful effort to win a $1.8 billion federal loan guarantee and told the firm they were not interested.
Now, Texas Pacific is still weighing its involvement with United. The firm "could still decide to pass on this," said an executive involved in the matter. "The unions want to create an impression that the talks are further along than they really are."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pilots at United have adamantly opposed a plan by the airline's management to restore financial health by running a low-fare carrier. (Associated Press); A plan for United from the investment firm Texas Pacific Group calls for removing the airline's current chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. C6) Chart: "Flight Plans"The Texas Pacific Group, an investment firm that has led other airline turnarounds, is weighing a challenge to United Airlines' recovery plan. UNITED'S PLAN $2.56 billion a year in wage and benefit cuts over six years Top management remains intact Move 30 percent of operations to a new lowfare airline that pays lower wages Drawing on $1.5 billion in financing from a group of banks, for continuing operations TEXAS PACIFIC'S PLAN Similar cuts, but no number stated Replace Glenn F. Tilton, Uniteds chief executive, and possibly others No low-fare carrier, but would shrink United by 20 to 25 percent and focus on business customers Would put together investors to replace the banks, possibly including state pension funds (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (74%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (62%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKRUPTCIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; PILOTS; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; FRINGE BENEFITS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); TPG CAPITAL LP (85%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS PACIFIC GROUP; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (85%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (89%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE; ATLAS, RIVA D; TILTON, GLENN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003 



210 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: It Will Be a Smaller World After All 

BYLINE:  By Ben J. Wattenberg; Ben J. Wattenberg, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, is author of "The Birth Dearth."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Remember the number 1.85. It is the lodestar of a new demography that will lead us to a different world. It should change the way we think about economics, geopolitics, the environment, culture -- and about ourselves.
 To make their calculations orderly, demographers have typically worked on the assumption that the "total fertility rate" -- the number of children born per woman -- would eventually average out to 2.1. Why 2.1? At that rate the population stabilizes over time: a couple has two children, the parents eventually die, and their children "replace" them. (The 0.1 accounts for children who die before reaching the age of reproduction.) 
 Now, in a new report, United Nations demographers have bowed to reality and changed this standard 2.1 assumption. For the last five years they have been examining one of the most momentous trends in world history: the startling decline in fertility rates over the last several decades. In the United Nations' most recent population report, the fertility rate is assumed to be 1.85, not 2.1. This will lead, later in this century, to global population decline.
In a world brought up on the idea of a "population explosion," this is a radical notion. The world's population is still growing -- it will take some time for it to actually start shrinking -- but the next crisis is depopulation.
The implications of lower fertility rates are far-reaching. One of the most profound is their potential to reduce economic inequality around the world and alter the balance of power among nations.
The United Nations divides the world into two groups, less developed countries and more developed countries. The most surprising news comes from the poorer countries. In the late 1960's, these countries had an average fertility rate of 6.0 children per woman. Today it is 2.9 -- and still falling. Huge and continuing declines have been seen in countries like Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Iran, Turkey and (of great importance to the United States) Mexico.
The more developed countries, in contrast, have seen their fertility rates fall from low to unsustainable. Every developed nation is now below replacement level. In the early 1960's, Europe's fertility rate was 2.6. Today the rate is 1.4, and has been sinking for half a century. In Japan the rate is 1.3.
These changes give poorer countries a demographic dividend. For several decades the bulk of their population will be of working age, with relatively few dependents, old or young. This should lead to higher per capita incomes and production levels. Nations with low fertility rates, meanwhile, will face major fiscal and political problems. In a pay-as-you-go pension system, for example, there will be fewer workers to finance the pensions of retirees; people will either have to pay more in taxes or work longer.
Among the more developed countries, the United States is the outlier nation, with the highest fertility rate -- just under 2.1. Moreover, the United States takes in more immigrants than the rest of the world combined. Accordingly, in the next 50 years America will grow by 100 million people. Europe will lose more than 100 million people.
When populations stabilize and then actually shrink, the economic dislocations can be severe. Will there be far less demand for housing and office space? Paradoxically, a very low fertility rate can also yield labor shortages, pushing wages higher. Of course, such shortages in countries with low fertility rates could be alleviated by immigration from countries with higher fertility rates -- a migration from poor countries to rich ones. But Europeans are actively trying to reduce immigration, especially since 9/11. Wisely, America has mostly resisted calls for restrictions on immigrants.
The environmental future, however, looks better. Past research on global warming was based on a long-term United Nations projection, issued in the early 1990's, of 11.6 billion people in 2200, far more people than we're ever likely to see. The new projections show the global population rising from just over six billion now to just under nine billion in 2050, followed by a decline, moving downward in a geometric progression.
With fewer people than expected, pollution should decrease from expected levels, as should consumption of oil. Clean water and clean air should be more plentiful. We know that many of these people will be richer -- driving more cars, consuming more resources. We also know that wealthy countries tend to be better at cleaning up their pollution than poor nations. With fewer people, open spaces should also be more abundant.
Still, it is the geopolitical implications of this change that may well be the most important. There is not a one-to-one relationship between population and power. But numbers matter. Big nations, or big groups of nations acting in concert, can become major powers. China and India each have populations of more than a billion; their power and influence will almost surely increase in the decades to come. Europe will shrink and age, absolutely and relatively.
Should the world face a "clash of civilizations," America may find itself with weaker allies. It may then be forced to play a greater role in defending and promoting the liberal, pluralist beliefs and values of Western civilization. We may have to do more, not because we want to, but because we have to. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILITY RATES (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); TRENDS (78%); HISTORY (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



211 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Rates Keep Sliding Toward the 1950's 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Interest rates are nearing their lowest levels in decades, surprising economists who predicted that rates would start rising this year.
 In the mortgage market, the average rate on a 30-year fixed loan fell to 5.67 percent this week, according to Freddie Mac, the lowest since at least the early 1960's. The average on a 15-year mortgage fell to 5.01 percent, and many lenders are now offering rates below 5 percent on such loans. 
 The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was at 3.65 percent, just a few ticks away from the 44-year low of 3.57 percent reached in October. The yield on the two-year note was 1.40 percent, the lowest since the 1950's. 
Yesterday, after the government announced a surprising loss of 308,000 jobs in February, economists began talking of rates falling even further as the economy's pace slackens. "All this points to a slowdown in the second quarter," said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP.
The signal of economic weakness also drove some analysts, including Mr. Crandall, to switch views and predict that Federal Reserve policy makers would cut rates when they meet in a week and a half. The Fed's benchmark rate is already at a four-decade low of 1.25 percent.
"We think the Fed is doing the same thing we are doing, cutting their economic forecast," said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan, where the growth prediction for the first half of this year has dropped to 1.5 percent from 3 percent in the last two weeks. "So we think they will cut rates at their next meeting." Merrill Lynch also said it now expected a Fed rate cut on March 18.
The decline in rates is not what many forecasters had predicted for 2003. They were not expecting interest rates to shoot sharply higher, but they did forecast an upward tilt that would cool the bull market in bonds. Fixed-income securities have outperformed the stock market for the last three years.
But forecasters did not anticipate the continued weakness in the labor market or the crimp in consumer spending from the jump in crude oil prices to almost $38 a barrel. Nor did they foresee how much of a drag the threat of a war with Iraq and the nuclear arms standoff with North Korea would be on economic growth or how geopolitical uncertainty would cause investors to continue seeking shelter in the Treasury market.
The drop in mortgage rates, though, is a bright spot. Consumers who are refinancing mortgages, reducing their monthly payments and sometimes drawing equity out of their homes have been able to continue spending, an important support for the economy at a time when business investment has been weak.
"Low interest rates are truly a powerful stimulant for the housing market and the economy as a whole," said Frank E. Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. But he acknowledgedthat "a couple of months ago I would not have said they would have gotten this low."
Mr. Nothaft said that his data on mortgage rates went back to 1963 and that this week's 30-year mortgage rate of 5.67 percent was the lowest since then. He says, however, that mortgage rates were still lower a few years earlier. His parents, he said, got a 25-year mortgage with a rate of 4.75 percent in 1958.
Mr. Glassman of J. P. Morgan said, "We've got the feeling that we are on the cusp of a new mortgage refinancing wave." The mortgage refinancing index compiled by the Mortgage Bankers Association rose this week to its fourth-highest ever. The record high was reached the week ended Oct. 4.
But Mr. Glassman added that the economic booster shot from lower interest rates could be less than expected. That is because the steep decline in rates is taking away income from people, many of them elderly, who depend on interest income. "It is not clear that the country as a whole benefits," he said.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has counted on the consumer spending stimulated by mortgage refinancing and home sales to get the economy through what he has often called a "soft patch."
But the drop in mortgage rates to 40-year lows comes in the same week that Mr. Greenspan said that the withdrawal of equity from homes "is likely to appreciably simmer down in 2003, possibly notably lessening support to household purchases of goods and services."
Although several economists have switched their view on the likelihood of a Fed rate cut, the overall probability is still not that high, based on the futures contract on the federal funds rate, the benchmark for the Fed. The April contract is reflecting just a 38 percent chance of a rate cut by then.
"People don't appreciate that 60 days from now things will be radically different, one way or another," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig. "I would think, therefore, that the Fed would want to watch and wait with the rest of us."
Mr. Crandall of Wrightson ICAP argued that Fed policy makers would make a quarter-point cut, to 1 percent, "on a precautionary basis." He said that Fed policy makers had made it clear that they think that the cost of allowing the economy to slow further is so great that a bit of a rate cut as insurance is likely.
In the Treasury market, the yield on the 10-year note fell to 3.58 percent after the release of the February employment report showing the sharp decline in nonfarm payroll jobs. But as the stock market managed to shrug off an early loss, yields moved higher. Rumors, later denied, of the capture of two sons of Osama bin Laden also helped send yields higher. 
By late in the day, the price of the 10-year note was up 2/32 , to 10129/32 , while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, was unchanged at 3.65 percent, down from 3.69 percent a week ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the threat of war looming, traders like these in Chicago have kept busy with Treasuries. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C14) Graph: "How Low Can They Go?"The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was at 3.65 percent yesterday, near the 44-year low it hit in October. The interest rate on the average 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 5.67 percent this week, the lowest it has been in decades. Graph tracks the interest rate since March 2002 for the following: 30-YEAR FIXED-RATE MORTGAGES10-YEAR TREASURY NOTE YIELD (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Freddie Mac)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); IRAQ WAR (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



212 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Slump Was Serious Before 9/11, Hevesi Says 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
The recession and the sagging stock market are more to blame than the Sept. 11 terrorist attack for New York State's loss of $8.7 billion in revenue over two years, a report yesterday from the office of the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, said.
 "While the attacks did have a significant impact on the state and city economies," the report said, "it has become clear that the recession that was already under way when the attacks occurred was more severe than originally thought." 
 For the fiscal years 2002 and 2003, which will end on March 31, about $2.9 billion in lost revenue related to jobs, wages, sales and profits can be attributed to the attack on the World Trade Center, the comptroller's office said. The rest stemmed from the declines in the economy and the stock market, compounded by the damage to investor confidence from the scandals involving Enron and other major corporations. 
Implicit in the comptroller's report, though never stated, is the notion that public officials have exaggerated the financial cost of Sept. 11 while refusing to shoulder the blame for not grappling with the recession in time. But Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget, said Gov. George E. Pataki began warning about a possible recession in January 2001.
The report said the state's economy had already begun to slide by then, because of the decline in the stock market and losses in upstate manufacturing jobs. In March 2002, the State Department of Labor reported that New York had lost 75,000 jobs in 2001 before Sept. 11. The department will issue revised figures this month, as it does every March, which could show an even greater loss of jobs in that period.
In October 2001, the State Division of the Budget estimated (nearly accurately, it turned out) that the state would lose $9 billion in tax revenue over two years. But the budget office projected that $5.1 billion of it would be attributable to the attack. Those numbers were based on projections of revenue shortfalls, rather than actual declines, Mr. Quinn said.
The comptroller's report is in line with a recent report by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that the city's economy was worse off before the terrorist attack than anyone had realized. Earlier, the bank had estimated that Sept. 11 cost the city $11.4 billion to $14.2 billion in future earnings, jobs, lost work hours and reduced productivity. In the recent report, the bank said these labor losses were likely to be slightly smaller when new data become available this month. The author of that report, Jason Bram, a regional economist, said revisions are not unusual because of a long lag before actual numbers are released. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); BONDS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



213 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Europe's Carmakers Sticking With Diesel

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: GENEVA, March 5 

 BODY:
Chalk it up to the widening gap in the way Europeans and Americans look at the world.
 Last week, General Motors brought its prototype of a hydrogen-powered car to the Geneva International Motor Show. The futuristic car, known as the Hy-Wire, had just gotten a nice lift from President Bush, who was photographed admiring it after announcing that the government would put $1.7 billion into researching hydrogen as a replacement for gasoline. 
 In the salons of Geneva, however, the Hy-Wire sat forlornly next to a prototype of a monstrous Cadillac with a 16-cylinder engine. The crowds all but ignored the car, preferring to swarm around the latest Mini, which is made by the plucky English carmaker owned by BMW of Germany. 
What was the attraction? The new Mini has a diesel engine.
To be fair, the Mini is rolling out this summer, while the Hy-Wire is merely a twinkle in the eye of automotive engineers. That difference helps to explain why the European auto executives in Geneva seemed notably less dazzled by the hydrogen future than did their American counterparts.
The Europeans produce millions of diesel passenger cars, which they say deliver many of the economic and environmental benefits that hydrogen or hybrid engines will not deliver for at least a decade.
"Why do we talk about hydrogen so much when the experts all agree we already have a good technology?" said Jens Neumann, the head of strategy and North American operations for Volkswagen.
About 40 percent of the VW cars sold in Europe use a diesel technology called turbo direct injection, which Mr. Neumann says is cleaner and more fuel efficient than traditional diesel engines.
It also offers better driving performance than comparable gasoline engines, which may come as a revelation to many Americans who think of diesel cars as noisy, smoky machines with the agility of a tractor.
VW sells turbo-diesel versions of its Golf, Beetle and Jetta models in the United States, andplans to introduce a diesel Passat sedan. Mr. Neumann said he believed that the proliferation of $2-a-gallon gasoline would help Volkswagen surmount the distaste of Americans for diesel cars.
"You can drive a Beetle from New York to Chicago with one fill-up, which is an exciting thing," he said.
European auto executives do not dispute the long-term potential of hydrogen as a replacement for gasoline. BMW, Mercedes-Benz and others have experimented with fuel cells and hybrid engines.
But they are skeptical of the sudden halo of publicity surrounding what they view as a science project. Some executives suggest that Detroit is seizing on hydrogen to avoid the most obvious way to make its vehicles more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly: build them smaller. 
"People think this is just playing with the problem until the politicians in the United States have the courage to tax gasoline, which would shift demand to smaller cars," said Garel Rhys, director of the automotive industry research institute at Cardiff University in Wales.
At the moment, diesel fuel costs slightly more than gasoline in the United States. In Europe, it is generally cheaper. This deprives European carmakers of one of their major selling points for diesel in the United States.
Diesel faces other hurdles in the American market, not the least of which are environmental regulations. The United States limits the amount of particulates an exhaust system can emit. In 2007, the Environmental Protection Agency plans to tighten those limits greatly. 
Critics of diesel, in Europe and the United States, say it emits more particulates than gasoline. But while the campaign against diesel in Europe has failed to catch on, carmakers here know they must make their engines cleaner to comply with the coming American regulations.
Engineers are working to fit engines with filters to screen out many of these particulates. It is an expensive process, however, that can add $2,000 to the sticker price. Diesel cars already cost more than gas-powered cars -- a disparity that is offset in Europe by the cheaper fuel.
Mercedes plans to introduce a diesel version of its popular E-class sedan in the United States next year. A spokesman acknowledged that pricing the car would be tricky, given the cost of the fuel.
"We know that customer acceptance of diesel in the U.S. is very low," said the spokesman, Johannes Reifenrath. "If we want to help build acceptance, we should want to help the price."
The situation in Europe could not be more different. More than 40 percent of all cars sold here have diesel engines. In France, the number is above 60 percent, and in Austria, 70 percent. Carmakers without a diesel in their lineup are severely constrained in terms of growth prospects.
Mini, the British maker of pint-size cars, has been a marketing triumph under BMW. But when the parent company's head of marketing, Michael Ganal, rolled out the new Mini One D to a charmed crowd in Geneva, he made it sound essential to Mini's survival in Europe.
Despite the obsession with diesel, BMW is determined to be a pioneer in hydrogen cars as well. Its emphasis, however, is on technologies that can be brought to the market as soon as possible.
The Munich-based company has built a version of its luxury 7-series sedan with an internal combustion engine that runs on liquid hydrogen or gasoline. G.M.'s Hy-Wire, by contrast, uses fuel cells that convert compressed hydrogen into electricity to power an electric engine.
Because the BMW can be filled up at regular gas stations, the company says it may be commercially viable by the end of the decade. Many experts believe that fuel-cell cars will not be widely available until 2020.
"We're not talking about the distant future," a BMW spokesman, Daniel Kammerer, said. "We're talking about producing a hydrogen car within the life cycle of the current 7-series."

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M.'s prototype hydrogen car, left, is all but ignored at the Geneva auto show, but the Mini One D, right, a diesel-powered car from BMW, is getting a lot of attention. More than 40 percent of cars sold in Europe are diesels. (pg. C1); A cutaway version of the new Opel Signum at the Geneva International Motor Show. The car comes equipped with either a diesel or gasoline engine. The Geneva auto show is open to the public until March 16. (Reuters)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%) AUTOMOBILES; DIESEL POWER; HYDROGEN; FUEL CELLS; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (66%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



214 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
VerticallyChallenged in Malaysia

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia 

 BODY:
Clearly, Shaharuddin Yusof is not afraid of heights.
 Two or three times a year, Mr. Shaharuddin, a former soldier, stuntman and father of five, climbs a slender set of rungs to the very top of one of the Petronas Twin Towers, 1,438 feet above the ground. There, he changes a light bulb that flashes to warn passing aircraft away from the world's two tallest buildings. 
 But Mr. Shaharuddin and the team of maintenance men he supervises are alone at the top. While the towers scrape the sky 33 feet higher than the previous record holder, the 110-story Sears Tower in Chicago, their highest full-time occupant is down on the 81st floor of the 88-floor Tower 1 -- the president and chief executive of the building's majority owner, Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas. 
Above him are only boardrooms, and on the highest floors -- the 87th and 88th -- equipment to wash the towers' 32,000 windows and polish its 700,000 square feet of stainless steel skin. The top 276 feet are occupied by empty spires, colossal hats culminating in two pinnacles. 
While the World Trade Center was occupied to the top and the Sears Tower still is, the Petronas Towers have much unrented space. It is not fear of terrorist-piloted aircraft that keeps the towers so depopulated, but the buildings' designs, which allot 13 floors to machinery -- and the fact that the owners have kept rents at double the market rate during a slump. "There is a glut of office space," said Terence Wong, a property analyst at the brokerage firm G. K. Goh Securities.
Qualms about tall buildings after Sept. 11 find little resonance in this Muslim nation. Just in case, though, the building management added airport-style security, complete with X-ray machines and metal detectors. Tenants are required to undergo training for three types of disaster and can evacuate the towers in just 32 minutes, a statistic proved in periodic fire drills.
"That's when you wish you were on a lower floor," said S. Kuhan, a consultant at Asia Telecommunications on the 40th floor of Tower 2.
As they hustle down, office workers pass through staircases encased in 30 inches of concrete. In contrast to the gypsum wallboard that enclosed the stairwells in the World Trade Center, these stairwells are designed to withstand a blast and subsequent fires.
Charles H. Thornton, the American engineer who helped design the Petronas towers, has argued that they could withstand a Sept. 11-style attack, not only because of the high-technology concrete but because their circular form makes them inherently more stable than a steel box. A bridge connecting the towers at the 41st and 42nd floors provides an alternative escape route should the stairwells be blocked.
"We feel quite safe here," said Alan Kam, the country director for the telecommunications company Avaya, which shares the 70th floor of Tower 2 with a division of Royal Dutch/Shell, the towers' loftiest paying tenants.
Indeed, as Asian cities vie to establish economic dominance, the urge to lay claim to the tallest-building title appears to have overcome any fears about tempting terrorists. Booming Shanghai has resumed construction of a 1,614-foot skyscraper. Taipei is already building a 1,667-foot usurper, and in Seoul, plans are afoot to erect one that would soar 1,772 feet.
Shanghai's new skyscraper will stand near what is now the world's third-tallest building, the Jin Mao Tower. But the Petronas Twin Towers are roughly double the height of any other office building in Kuala Lumpur. Rising incongruously over the verdant Malaysian capital, they are a tribute to the economic achievements of this formerly impoverished tropical nation and its indefatigable prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad.
Completed in 1998 for $400 million, the towers were only one of Mr. Mahathir's megaprojects, begun in the heady decade before the Asian financial crisis in 1997. There is also a 550-mile highway stretching the length of peninsular Malaysia, a new $2.3 billion international airport outside Kuala Lumpur and a new $5.3 billion seat of government, Putrajaya.
When the towers were being built on thesite of a former horse-racing track, Mr. Mahathir used to drop by unannounced to inspect progress by the two companies -- one Korean, one Japanese -- pitted against each other in a race to erect them. Mr. Mahathir is said to have sketched on a napkin the eight-point Muslim star the American architect Cesar Pelli used as the basis for the towers.
A remarkable amount of space is unoccupied, however. Like the two top floors, the first eight stories are occupied by mechanical equipment, as are three floors in the upper thirties. And while state-owned Petronas occupies all of Tower 1, only 65 percent of the 75 rentable floors in Tower 2 are occupied, according Arlida Ariff, managing director of the buildings' manager, KLCC Urusharta.
Since the economic crisis, Kuala Lumpur has had a glut of office space, with roughly 20 million square feet left unoccupied, said Benny Chew, a property analyst at Merrill Lynch. Petronas Towers tenants get lower rates the more space they rent and the longer they rent it, but space in the towers still costs roughly double what it does elsewhere in downtown Kuala Lumpur.
The Petronas Towers are far more than just tall buildings, however. Tenants can choose to rent from 2,500 to 25,000 square feet in Malaysia's first "intelligent building," with a fiber optic backbone and 28 elevators that ensure that no one waits more than 30 seconds for a ride. Air-conditioning can be shunted to several different zones on each floor, so part of an office can be kept cool without paying to cool the entire floor. Special temperature sensors turn the air-conditioning off when a room is empty.
As for keeping the towers gleaming, that is a full-time job. Mr. Shaharuddin and his cleaning staff use a special polish for the corrosion-resistant stainless steel. When the steel sparkles, the building is so dazzling that birds dash themselves against it, providing a macabre chore for the cleaners -- collecting the carcasses from ledges. 
The two towers are just part of a $2 billion, 100-acre "city within a city" that includes an 864-seat concert hall, a landscaped park, a five-star hotel and a mosque hand-decorated by craftsmen from Uzbekistan. 
The shopping mall at the bottom is a runaway success, with 280 department stores, shops, restaurants and cafes. And, of course, there's a Starbucks, where tower tenants get a 10 percent discount.
"I like this place," Mr. Kam of Avaya said. "It's a reflection of your business. My customers love to come here for meetings."
What's not to love? Next year, a convention center is due to open across the park. Visitors can already drive from the airport to the basement parking lot, Ms. Arlida said, without hitting a single traffic light.
As for the rent, Mr. Kam says the towers are cheap compared with other cities. Rent is roughly $25 a square foot. The average in downtown Singapore is about $37, and around $48 in Midtown Manhattan, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
The Petronas towers have also been designated a distant spur of the Multimedia Super Corridor, Malaysia's answer to Silicon Valley. Companies in the towers are thus eligible for special tax incentives, including a five-year holiday on income and investment tax, waivers on import duties and grants for research and development.
Not surprisingly, the list of tenants in Tower 2 includes some of the biggest names in technology. Below Avaya on the 70th floor, is Computer Associates on the 69th and Alcatel on the 68th. E.D.S. is on the 63rd, I.B.M. on the 53rd. Microsoft occupies two floors, the 29th and 30th.
The towers' biggest draw, however, is not fiber optics, tax incentives or discount cappuccino. "The best thing about working here is status," said Mr. Kuhan from Asia Telecom. "People look at you differently."
So prestigious is a Petronas Twin Towers address that Petronas originally declined to admit nontenants at all. It was only after an outcry in the local news media that the bridge connecting the buildings was opened for viewing.
The buildings' management will not even deign to rent out the top 10 floors of Tower 2 unless it can fill all 10. Otherwise, Ms. Arlida said, it is not cost-efficient to run the elevators at those levels or pump up cool water for air-conditioning.
Not that there have not been offers. Ms. Arlida said some prospective tenants have offered exorbitant sums to rent the 86th floor, but they were not what the owners consider the right kind of tenant. "Some things," she said, "money can't buy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Petronas Twin Towers, the world's tallest at 1,438 feet, tower over the rest of Kuala Lumpur. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1); Left, A computer-enhanced photograph, left, shows the latest design of the 1,614-foot skyscraper rising in Shanghai, while a 1,667-foot building, at right, is under construction in Taipei, Taiwan. (Getty Images; right, Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); AIRPORTS (76%); METAL DETECTORS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; PETRONAS TOWERS (KUALA LUMPUR); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: PETROLIAM NASIONAL BHD (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (66%) EAST CHINA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (71%) MALAYSIA; KUALA LUMPUR (MALAYSIA); SHANGHAI (CHINA); TAIPEI (TAIWAN); SEOUL (SOUTH KOREA); FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



215 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SEOUL; 
Musing on an Exodus of G.I.'s, South Korea Hails U.S. Presence

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, March 7 

 BODY:
Hints by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld that some American military units should leave South Korea are provoking a sudden new appreciation of the United States military presence here.
 Within hours of Mr. Rumsfeld's musings that American soldiers should be shifted out of North Korean artillery range, South Korea's new prime minister, Goh Kun, hurried to a meeting with the American ambassador here and said, "The role of the U.S. troops as a tripwire must be maintained." 
 About one-third of the 37,000 American troops are situated north of the Han River, near the demilitarized zone, where they are easy targets for the roughly 11,000 North Korean artillery pieces lined up on the border. In a strategy that has kept the peace on the Korean peninsula for half a century, the Americans serve as living guarantees that the United States would be drawn into a second Korean war if the North Koreans ever repeated their 1950 invasion of the South.
It would be "inappropriate to talk about redeploying U.S. troops at this time, given the tension surrounding the nuclear issue," Prime Minister Goh told the American ambassador, Thomas Hubbard. The South Korean spoke for the 10-day-old government of President Roh Moo-Hyun, a liberal who was elected last December on the shoulders of mass demonstrations against the conduct of American troops here.
Today, Defense Minister Cho Young Kil assured South Korea's National Assembly that the United States had not officially presented any plan to withdraw any troops.
The two allies "will not discuss any possibility of movement of U.S. troops before the nuclear issue is resolved," he said, referring to North Korea's apparent ambition to build a nuclear weapons arsenal.
After a huge pro-American demonstration here last Saturday, supporters of the American military presence are increasingly finding their voices.
"It is not the time to withdraw the U.S. troops from South Korea," Lee Joo Hyun, a 26-year-old business school student said emphatically, after scanning this morning's headlines. "The Korean situation is not that stable. North Korea is really unpredictable. We don't know what they are going to do."
South Koreans fear that a new, conservative argument for redeployment is gaining traction in the Bush administration. In this view, American soldiers on the border are in effect human shields, preventing the administration from ever bombing North Korea's nuclear facilities. Today, the first of 24 bombers arrived in Guam, a move that Pentagon officials have said is not part of any plan to attack North Korea.
Noting that South Korea has an economy 25 or 35 times bigger than North Korea's, Mr. Rumsfeld said Thursday that the South "has all the capability in the world of providing the kind of upfront deterrent that's needed."
In comments at the Pentagon, Mr. Rumsfeld suggested that the American military could play a more supportive role on the Korean peninsula arranging its forces at an "air hub" and "sea hub," and as reinforcements for South Korean front-line troops. 
"I suspect that what we'll do is we'll end up making some adjustments there," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "Whether the forces would come home or whether they'd move farther south on the peninsula or whether they would move to a neighboring area are the kinds of things that are being sorted out."
Today, North Korea declared a maritime exclusion zone through Tuesday in a section of the ocean between the Korean peninsula and Japan, signaling it was planning a missile test.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An unidentified G.I. walked in front of a row of tanks yesterday during joint war games with South Korean units along the demilitarized zone. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); GUAM (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



216 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: COSTS; 
Big Losses Are Likely With Shows Shut Down

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
For producers, the timing could not be worse. Having already grappled with a bitter winter and a weak economy, Broadway was suddenly facing another threat to the lifeblood of its industry -- the musical -- at the exact moment things were supposed to get better. 
 The first week of March, when the weather improves and tourists start to return, traditionally is the beginning of one of the most lucrative seasons on Broadway. This year promised to be no exception, with a dozen openings scheduled between now and the Tony Awards in early June. 
 But with the decision yesterday by Broadway musicians to strike against producers -- and the producers' subsequent decision to cancel all musical performances through the weekend -- many who make their living off Broadway were expecting to take serious losses, especially if the strike drags on through next week. 
"It will be disastrous," said Ronald S. Lee, the president of Group Sales Box Office, which has annual sales of $30 million in Broadway tickets. "It's not the immediate loss; it's what it does to future bookings. We've faced a possible war in Iraq, a pitiful economy and now a musicians' strike. It's all going to take a huge toll."
City officials were equally concerned about how a Broadway shutdown would affect the city's economy, particularly its tourist trade. 
Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism board, was blunt. "If compromise needs to be done, then do it," she said, speaking of negotiations between the musicians' union and producers. "We owe it to the visitors to this city to go on with the show."
Of particular worry, Ms. Nicholas said, is that a strike could weaken the city's appeal when the tourism market is particularly competitive. "A strike is a negative that New York cannot afford right now, especially when you see people heading off to places like Las Vegas or Orlando," she said. "When you turn business away, there's no guarantee that you're going to get it back."
Producers were unwilling or unable to say yesterday exactly how much the strike may cost them, but an examination of box office figures for previous weeks indicates that the amount could range from $30,000 per lost performance for a small musical like "Urinetown" to $120,000 per performance for a blockbuster like "Hairspray."
The strike's effect will be most painful for productions riding on the edge of profitability, for which losing even a few hundred paying theatergoers can make the difference between a weekly profit or loss. Depending on the week, that category can include successful long-running shows like "The Phantom of the Opera" and "Urinetown" as well as newer tough-luck revivals like "Flower Drum Song." 
For the industry as a whole, the precise economic impact of the strike will be difficult to determine.
After the Sept. 11 attack in 2001, when the entire industry shut down for two days, Broadway officials estimated losses at $1.5 million to $2.5 million a day. All Broadway shows carry insurance that covers the cost of performances missed due to an act of God -- or a disaster like Sept. 11 -- but strikes are not covered in such policies. 
That said, not all of Broadway is shut down this time; six plays on Broadway that will employ no musicians, as well as the "Def Poetry Jam," are all expected to play. 
Most of the musicals had planned to keep their shows going during a strike by using sophisticated computers, called "virtual orchestras," in the place of live musicians. That plan was called off after unions representing stagehands, stage managers and actors said they would honor the musicians' picket lines. 
Even before that, however, owners of ancillary businesses in the theater district like restaurants, bars, and hotels were girding themselves for a crisis. 
Angus McIndoe, whose restaurant on West 44th Street is a popular hangout for both preshow crowds and postshow performers, said a protracted strike could force him to close. 
"I'm quite dependent on Broadway for my income, as quite a few businesses in the neighborhood are," said Mr. McIndoe, whose restaurant is named after him. "And I strongly suspect that the CD player that replaces the orchestra will not spend as much money at my restaurant as a real live musician."
Mr. Lee, the group sales agent, concurred, saying he feared that a nasty labor battle would poison the market for Broadway. "We will feel the effects of this for quite a while, no matter when there's a settlement," he said. "It just suddenly gives an acute awareness of the tenuous nature of this business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); TOURISM (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); TICKET SALES (72%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%) THEATER; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



217 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: OVERVIEW; 
MUSICIANS' STRIKE DIMS THE LIGHTS ALONG BROADWAY

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Most of Broadway went dark last night when its musicians walked out over how many of them should be employed in each theater's orchestra pit, and actors and stagehands refused to cross their picket lines.
 Broadway producers announced that all musicals -- except for "Cabaret," which operates under a different contract -- would be shut for the weekend. Dramatic plays without music and Off Broadway productions operated as normal. 
 In the confusion last night, managers of musicals scrambled to accommodate disappointed theatergoers, some of whom encountered picket lines on their way to ask how to get their tickets refunded or exchanged.
It was the first time in nearly 30 years that Broadway had been shut down by a labor dispute. 
The issue here is an effort by producers to reduce the minimum number of musicians required to play at any given Broadway theater. 
Last night, the producers left talks with the musicians, their offers far apart, and it was unclear when negotiations might resume. The producers had hoped to present their musicals last night with computer-generated sound -- so-called virtual orchestras.
But the producers apparently did not expect the actors and stagehands to respect the musicians' picket lines, and decided to close the shows.
"For Broadway to be shut down at this time, in our city, over an archaic contract provision, is tragic and unnecessary," said Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers. "We're in uncharted territory."
Bill Moriarity, the president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said he had expected the two sides to keep talking. "I don't see any reason why we couldn't have reached a reasonable deal tonight," he said.
His assistant, Bill Dennison, added: "To shut the shows down and deprive the city of the revenues is just a shocking reaction. We're all facing the issues of a corporate mentality on Broadway where it's all about the bottom line, when creative people are shoved aside."
For tourists, there was obvious disappointment and some puzzlement.
Julia Brady, a tourist from Ottawa, Ontario, said: "It's confusing, what's canceled and what's not. Some shows are going on, but I don't even know where Off Broadway is." Ms. Brady, a watercolorist speaking at the TKTS booth in Times Square, said: "We're mildly disappointed. I would have liked to know in advance."
Sharan Mandell, 53 years old, a fourth-grade teacher from Yardley, Pa., said she found out at dinner when her waitress told her that "Aida," the show Ms. Mandell had tickets to see, was canceled. "Our dinner was ruined," she said. "Everyone was upset. What else are we going to do?"
During the strike, the producers said they would offer refunds or exchanges to people who request them before the start of a performance, though specific policies on these transactions may vary from show to show. The strike affects the 18 musicals now playing on Broadway that are part of the League contract, as well as three that are in rehearsal.
The current job action comes at a particularly difficult time economically. While Broadway shows have been grossing better than expected for these typically slow winter months, the regional economy is in decline, and there is concern that any war with Iraq would keep people home. Because of the downturn and the drop in foreign tourists after the terrorist attack, advance ticket sales have yet to return to normal levels.
Broadway is responsible for $4.5 billion of economic activity and 6,000 jobs, according to the League. Musicians as a group will lose at least $439,000 in salaries for every week they don't work; actors $1.3 million; stagehands $285,000.
The strike will affect the 325 musicians working on Broadway. There are 1,000 more who earn a substantial part of their income from Broadway employment. The membership of Local 802 is about 10,000.
Although Broadway theaters closed on Sept. 11 and Sept. 12, 2001, after the terrorist attack, the last work stoppage due to a strike was in 1975. It lasted three weeks and hinged on the same issue dividing the musicians and producers now: minimums. 
For more than 50 years, the contract between musicians and producers has dictated the minimum number of musicians required in each Broadway pit, ranging from 3 to 26, depending on the size of the theater and its history. The minimums began when theaters had house orchestras. In 1993, the union agreed to grant some exceptions.
The producers have argued that the minimum requirements are an outdated, onerous job guarantee that forces them to employ musicians they do not need, in an era when digital music is common and few musicals are being written for large-scale orchestras.
The musicians argue that doing away with minimums will allow producers to use as few players as possible to save money and will ultimately compromise the quality of live music. They say they fear that the producers want to get rid of live music altogether on Broadway, an allegation the producers deny.
The two sides have been haggling over the minimum number of musicians that should be required in Broadway's largest theaters, which now ranges from 24 to 26. 
Mr. Moriarity said the producers had made a final offer of 15 last night, and then left the room. The musicians have refused to go lower than 24. "We've made a continued commitment to 24 in the belief that is a real Broadway orchestra," Mr. Moriarity said. "We haven't proposed a number. We've proposed an orchestra."
Mr. Bernstein said the producers had canceled productions for the weekend to provide clarity for theatergoers. "The unions have darkened Broadway," he said. "We have a responsibility to our customers."
Late yesterday afternoon, Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which represents the stagehands, voted to honor the picket line. "How can we be a union in the entertainment business and not stick up for another union?" said Edward McConway, the president of Local 1. "It's morally reprehensible." 
Shortly afterward, Actors' Equity Association, which represents actors, also came out in support of the musicians. The last time the actors went on strike was in 1960. "Our members made it clear that they do not wish to perform to virtual orchestras," said Patrick Quinn, president of the actors' union, in a statement. "Our members also believe that live music is essential on Broadway and that minimums are appropriate and necessary."
Until the other unions stepped in, the producers had been concerned mainly about the audience reaction to shows accompanied by virtual orchestras. Created from digitally sampled sounds, the computers can adjust tempo to follow singers and have been used to enhance productions on the road. Shows like "Chicago" have been rehearsing with these digital orchestras, some of them all week.
"It sounds terrific," said Barry Weissler, a producer of "Chicago." "The show looks, feels and sounds the same."
But the actor Harvey Fierstein, currently starring in "Hairspray," said they were no substitute. "It's a computer made to sound like a roller rink -- it was not a pretty sound," he said. 
"We're professionals, we're artists -- a machine is a dead thing," Mr. Fierstein continued. "That's not why people go to live theater. It's not why I want to be in live theater."
The work stoppage will be especially tough on musicals that are struggling at the box office, like "Man of La Mancha," and on shows that are preparing to open, like "Gypsy" and "Nine," which are in rehearsal, and "Urban Cowboy," which is in previews.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Actors' Equity agreed to honor the musicians' strike, the actors Harvey Fierstein and Kerry Butler, left, of "Hairspray" visited the musicians' picket line at the Neil Simon Theater, where "Hairspray" had been playing. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLOSINGS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



218 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Despite Jobs Data, Shares Advance on bin Laden Reports

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks rose slightly yesterday as investors weighed dismal jobs data against reports that the United States may be close to capturing Al Qaeda's leader, Osama bin Laden. 
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index trailed other major market gauges, weighed down by a lackluster reading from Intel, the world's largest maker of microchips. 
 Investors were also considering an important United Nations Security Council briefing by the chief weapons inspector, Hans Blix, and its implications for a possible United States-led war on Iraq. 
Stock markets had opened sharply lower, hit by a report showing that the nation's economy suffered its biggest loss of jobs since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
But the markets quickly bounced off their lowest levels of the day as reports on Mr. bin Laden and the possible capture of two of his sons lifted spirits on Wall Street. The White House later cast doubt on the reports. 
"You had a big reversal in the market; there's a lot of crosscurrents going on today," said David Memmott, head of listed block trading at Morgan Stanley.
"People are getting the feeling that we're getting closer to capturing bin Laden, but I don't know what significance his sons play in his whole terror network. There's still lots of issues with the economy that people are worried about."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 66.04 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 7,740.03, after slumping more than 1 percent to its lowest level since Oct. 11 earlier in the session. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.79 points or or 0.8 percent, to close at 828.89; the Nasdaq composite index increased 2.4 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,305.29.
Traders pinned the market's earlier rally on an ABC News report that the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pakistani Army were electronically tracking a large caravan of people in Pakistan that might include Mr. bin Laden. 
In other reports, a Pakistani official said two sons of Mr. bin Laden were wounded and possibly arrested in an operation by United States and Afghan troops in Afghanistan that killed at least nine suspected Qaeda members. 
The White House said it had no information to substantiate the reports about the sons. 
In his briefing to the Security Council, Mr. Blix said Iraq had recently made some progress in disarmament, potentially bolstering opposition to a United States-led drive to gain Security Council backing for war. 
Mr. Blix criticized the rate at which Iraq had handed over documents on prohibited chemical and biological weapon systems, but said there had been an acceleration in Iraqi initiatives. 
Semiconductor stocks fell after Intel said on Thursday that its first-quarter revenue would be flat to down slightly from a year earlier because of weaker-than-expected sales of flash memory chips. Intel sank 69 cents a share, closing at $16.01. 
"Most of the selling, if you take a look, is related to the semiconductor group, which is really suffering from Intel," said Keith Keenan, vice president for institutional trading at the brokerage firm Wall Street Access. 
The Philadelphia semiconductor index gave up 1.7 percent, with all 17 components except for National Semiconductor trading down. 
Shares of 3Com slid 39 cents each, to $4.11, after the network equipment maker cut its revenue forecast, citing weak demand in North America. 
In the latest economic news, the number of workers on the nation's payrolls outside the farm sector shrank 308,000 in February, the biggest decline since November 2001 and well short of the estimate by economists of a gain of 8,000.
The unemployment rate in February crept up to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in January, according to the Labor Department.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



219 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Chinese Company to Buy Stake in Big Caspian Oil Field

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 7 

 BODY:
China's state-controlled offshore oil company announced today that it would buy a $615 million stake in an immense oil field in the Caspian Sea, the boldest move yet by China to slow its rapidly growing dependence on oil from the politically volatile Persian Gulf.
 Diplomats from the United States, Russia, the European Union and the Mideast have been wrangling for years over whether oil from Central Asia should be exported to Western countries through additional pipelines passing through Russia, Turkey, Iran or Georgia. But today's deal by the Chinese oil company, CNOOC Ltd., raises the prospect that oil could flow east instead, through pipelines across Kazakhstan to China. 
 "Adding CNOOC as a partner adds the possibility of marketing the production in China, which is thirsty for energy," said Mark Qiu, the company's chief financial officer. 
Mr. Qiu said that Chinese participation was not contingent on the construction of a pipeline to China, but that CNOOC regarded the possible construction of a pipeline as an additional benefit associated with its investment.
With war in Iraq appearing imminent, Chinese officials have expressed growing concern about their economy's increasing reliance on the Persian Gulf, which supplies three-fifths of China's oil imports. 
CNOOC, the publicly traded subsidiary here of the state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation, has agreed to pay $615 million in cash to buy 8.33 percent of the North Caspian Sea Project from the BG Group of Britain. 
BG is retaining another 8.33 percent stake in the project. The project includes the enormous Kashagan field, as well as other current and suspected oil and gas fields. It has attracted nearly all the global oil and gas giants, with Eni of Italy as the operator, and Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell, TotalFinaElf, ConocoPhillips and Inpex all holding sizable stakes.
The other partners have the right to pre-empt CNOOC's purchase within 60 days by paying BG the same price that CNOOC promised. But all six of the other partners have worked with CNOOC on oil or gas projects elsewhere and several of them are actively pursuing the Chinese market, which could become more difficult if they antagonize the Chinese government by rejecting CNOOC's participation in the Caspian Sea project.
Another Chinese state-owned oil company, the Chinese National Petroleum Corporation, purchased two oil fields in 1997 in west-central Kazakhstan, 250 miles northeast of the Caspian Sea. But the reserves in those fields later proved too small to make it economical to build what would be one of the world's longest and costliest pipelines.
By contrast, the North Caspian Sea fields involved in today's acquisition are in westernmost Kazakhstan and rank among the world's largest, with reserves estimated at 13 billion barrels. 
Kazakh and Chinese companies finished building a pipeline in January that is supposed to carry oil from the Chinese fields and other oil fields in west-central Kazakhstan to Atyrau, a port on the North Caspian Sea. Another pipeline is scheduled to go even farther into central Kazakhstan.
While these pipelines were planned to carry oil west to the Caspian Sea, they could be used as the first leg of transporting oil from the Caspian Sea east toward China instead, said Vincent Noual, a Central Asian oil expert in the Geneva offices of the IHS Energy Group, one of the world's largest energy consulting firms.
"They could reverse the flow toward China, and enter China from the western corner," Mr. Noual said. A pipeline would still have to be built across eastern Kazakhstan and western China. 
Philip Andrews-Speed, the director of the Center for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy at the University of Dundee in Scotland, said that the sheer length of a pipeline from the Caspian Sea to coastal China would probably require the Chinese government to subsidize its construction, presumably for national security reasons. The cost would be limited somewhat, he said, if the pipeline followed right-of-ways now being created for China's huge West-East natural gas pipeline project, which is to carry gas from fields near the Kazakh border to Shanghai.
The North Caspian Sea project also faces engineering and legal hurdles, although oil industry experts are confident they can be overcome. The oil fields are in water that is too shallow for drilling equipment to be readily floated in, but too deep for equipment to be easily carried in by truck either. Kazakhstan's government has also been asking that Kazakh companies have a 70 percent stake in the project even though these companies have very little money orexpertise to contribute.
In addition to today's deal, China has just started trying to build a strategic petroleum reserve and CNOOC made three investments last year in smaller Indonesian and Australian oil and gas fields.
The transactions have caused some alarm in Washington. A panel appointed by Congress warned last summer that China was trying to expand its influence in oil-producing countries to secure reliable access to energy supplies.
Today's deal "has major repercussions for China's geopolitical relationships," Michael Wessel, a panel member and a former senior Democratic aide in the House, said in a telephone interview. "A good portion of China's foreign policy is driven by oil."
Chinese oil production has been stagnant in recent years and is expected to decline in the years ahead as existing fields run dry, sometimes prematurely because of poor production methods in the past. At the same time, most of China has already been explored for oil, making it unlikely that significant new reserves remain to be found. As a result, China has gone from being a net exporter of oil in 1993 to a large importer now.

GRAPHIC: Map of Kazakhstan highlighting the location of the North Caspian Sea Project: The North Caspian Sea reserves are estimated at 13 billion barrels. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IRAQ WAR (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BG GROUP PLC (92%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (84%); CNOOC LTD (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); TOTAL SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%) CNOOC LTD 

TICKER: BG (LSE) (92%); CEO (NYSE) (84%); 0883 (HKSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); TTA (LSE) (53%); TOT (NYSE) (53%); TOT (BIT) (53%); FP (PAR) (53%); FP (BRU) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (53%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%) CHINA (99%); GULF STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); IRAQ (79%) CHINA; CASPIAN SEA; MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



220 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan, Unlike Buffett, Sees Derivatives as Positive Influence 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
Derivatives, financial instruments criticized by the investors Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gross, have accelerated globalization, raised living standards, and helped keep the United States from sinking into a deep recession, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said today. 
 The use of derivatives -- obligations derived from debt and equity securities, commodities and currencies -- has "significantly improved the flexibility of economies," Mr. Greenspan told a Banque de France symposium via satellite. 
 That has helped keep the nation's economy afloat as it struggles against the "extraordinary shocks," of a "dramatic" decline in stock prices, a drop in capital investment, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, corporate governance scandals and now "geopolitical risks and a fairly sharp rise in energy prices," Mr. Greenspan said. 
"There can be little doubt that globalization and global finance have been a major contribution to the flattening of the business cycle," he said. "Despite all of that, the American economy has seemingly been able to struggle along without collapsing into a much deeper recession, which certainly would have been the case in the period 20 or 30 years ago." 
Mr. Buffett and Mr. Gross have said recently that banks and companies do not disclose enough about their use of the contracts. Mr. Gross manages the world's biggest bond fund.
Since investors do not need to put up all the money for a trade and because the value of a contract changes more than the underlying asset, derivatives can backfire. In 1998, the New York Federal Reserve Bank helped organize a rescue of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund after it lost $4 billion on investments including derivatives. 
The market for derivatives traded outside exchanges grew 15 percent, to a record $128 trillion in the first half of 2002, measured by the value of underlying assets, the latest figures from the Bank for International Settlements show. That is more than 10 times the value of the United States gross domestic product. 
Because a derivative is set up to offset risk, its value, measured by the underlying assets, is higher than the amount of money at stake, and Mr. Greenspan suggested that some concerns about the use of derivatives were overdone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RECESSION (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); TRENDS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; COMMODITIES; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BANQUE DE FRANCE (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF FRANCE 

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (91%); BILL GROSS (90%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUFFETT, WARREN E; GROSS, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



221 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Bush Orders Sanctions Imposed Against Leaders of Zimbabwe 

BYLINE:  By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
President Bush announced economic sanctions today against President Robert Mugabe and 76 other officials of Zimbabwe, which has been torn by social upheaval, food shortages and political intimidation.
 Mr. Bush's executive order bars Americans from having any business dealings with the Zimbabwean leaders and freezes whatever assets they may have in the United States. The action follows a similar move by the European Union. 
 "Over the course of more than two years, the government of Zimbabwe has systematically undermined that nation's democratic institutions, employing violence, intimidation and repressive means including legislation to stifle opposition to its rule," Mr. Bush said in announcing his executive order. 
He said the Mugabe government not only harmed Zimbabwe's people but also poseed an "unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy interests of the United States." 
The announcement today came as no surprise because the United States and numerous other Western nations have accused Mr. Mugabe of election-rigging and bullying his opponents and journalists who have been critical of his government. 
Mr. Mugabe, 78, has led the country since it gained black majority rule in 1980. He was elected to a new six-year term as president in March 2002, but independent observers said the voting was so flawed that the election was virtually stolen.
Mr. Mugabe, in turn, has lashed back at Western leaders, accusing them of being nostalgic for the days when Zimbabwe was Rhodesia, first as a British colony and, after they declared independence in 1965, under the the country's white settlers. 
Numerous African leaders have sided with Mr. Mugabe, asserting that the outsiders care too much about members of Zimbabwe's white minority, whose lives have been turned upside down as the government seizes their farms and redistributes them among black people. The Mugabe government says it is trying to right a historical wrong. 
Mr. Mugabe's critics assert that his abuse of power has aggravated the effects of drought and flooding. 
"To add to the desperation of the besieged Zimbabwean people, the current government has engaged in a violent assault on the rule of law that has thrown the economy into chaos, devastated the nation's agricultural economy and triggered a potentially catastrophic food crisis," Mr. Bush said today. 
The landlocked country of 11 million people in southern Africa has suffered from a food shortage in the aftermath of drought and flood. Western governments have accused the Mugabe government of punishing opposition supporters by denying them grain. The United Nations says only major assistance from its World Food Program has prevented widespread starvation.
Mr. Mugabe, a guerrilla leader in the colonial era, has made it clear that he wants to hold on to his power. "I am not retiring," he said in January. "I will never, never go into exile. I fought for Zimbabwe, and when I die, I will be buried in Zimbabwe, nowhere else."
Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said today, "the situation in Zimbabwe endangers the southern African region and threatens to undermine efforts to foster good governance and respect for the rule of law throughout the continent." 
"The United States is working diligently with its international partners to try to ensure that adequate food supplies are made available to those in need," Mr. Fleischer said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (85%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (79%); STARVATION (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); AGRICULTURE (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



222 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: COST OF WAR; 
Troop Movement Alone Could Cost $25 Billion, Congressional Office Finds

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
The Congressional Budget Office estimated today that simply sending troops and equipment to the Persian Gulf to fight Iraq and returning them home would cost nearly $25 billion and that the total cost of a potential war would doubtless be much higher depending on how long hostilities lasted and how much was spent on reconstruction and other assistance.
 The Bush administration has repeatedly refused to predict what a war might cost. At his news conference on Thursday night, President Bush said that the money would be requested from Congress "at the appropriate time" and that the price of doing nothing would be far greater than the price of going to war. 
 Last week, a senior Defense Department official suggested that a war might cost $60 billion or more. 
The budget office, the nonpartisan staff of economists and other specialists who advise Congress on fiscal and economic matters, said even rough projections of the total cost of war were impossible because "multiple unknowns exist about how a conflict with Iraq might actually unfold" and because long-term expenditures depend on "highly uncertain decisions about future policies."
But the budget staff said it was possible to calculate some of what it called incremental costs, the costs that might be incurred beyond the amounts budgeted for routine operations.
The staff calculated that the initial cost of deploying troops and equipment in the region of the war would be about $14 billion, that the cost of the first month of combat would be $10 billion and that the cost would then fall slightly to about $8 billion a month.
After the war, the budget office figured it would cost about $9 billion to return the troops and equipment to home bases. American occupation of Iraq, the staff said, could vary from $1 billion to $4 billion a month.
The budget office said it was not willing to speculate how much might be spent for humanitarian aid to Iraq, aid to allies in the region or construction of military bases in an occupied Iraq. Nor, the office said, could calculations be made of future troop levels and other military needs that might arise from a war.
The estimates of the cost of a possible war were in the budget office's analysis of the budget for the next fiscal year that President Bush sent to Congress last month.
The new analysis found that the anticipated deficit had grown by about $50 billion since January, primarily because of deteriorating economic conditions and a big spending bill passed by Congress and signed by the president last month.
The deficit analysis does not include war costs.
Over the next five years, the deficit projections of the budget office are similar to those made by the president's budget office. 
For the 2003 fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, the Congressional staff projected a slightly lower deficit than the administration did, $287 billion compared with the administration's projection of $304 billion. For the 2004 fiscal year, the Congressional forecast was slightly higher than the administration's, $338 billion compared with $307 billion.
Over five years, the budget office calculated, the Bush tax-cut and spending proposals would worsen the deficit by a total of about $800 billion. The cumulative deficits over five years would be $362 billion if no changes were made in the law and $1.2 trillion if the Bush proposals are enacted, the analysis showed.
This calculation does not take into account how the Bush proposals would affect the economy. The administration maintains that the tax cuts would make the overall economy and therefore the budget picture much stronger.
The administration made no effort to calculate deficits beyond the five-year period, while the budget office extended its projections for 10 years. 
The Congressional staff acknowledged that such long-range predictions were unreliable. But when it tallied the numbers for 10 years, it found that the administration's tax and spending proposals would worsen the budget situation by a total of $2.7 trillion. Again, no assumptions were made about how the Bush proposals would affect the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MILITARY BASES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



223 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 4128 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
In a Chief Inspector's Words: 'A Substantial Measure of Disarmament'

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from reports by Hans Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei to the United Nations Security Council yesterday, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc. A full transcript is online at nytimes.com/international.

HANS BLIX -- Mr. President referring to Francois Fall, the foreign minister of Guinea and the acting Security Council president , for nearly three years, I've been coming to the Security Council presenting the quarterly reports of Unmovic. They have described our many preparations for the resumption of inspections in Iraq. The 12th quarterly report is the first that describes three months of inspections. They come after four years without inspections. The report was finalized 10 days ago, and a number of relevant events have taken place since then. Today's statement will supplement the circulated report on these points to bring the council up to date.
 Inspections in Iraq resumed on Nov. 27, 2002. In matters relating to process -- notably, prompt access to sites -- we have faced relatively few difficulties, and certainly much less than those that were faced by Unscom in the period 1991 to 1998. This may well be due to the strong outside pressure.
Some practical matters which were not settled by the talks Dr. ElBaradei and I had with the Iraqi side in Vienna prior to inspections or in Resolution 1441 had been resolved at meetings which we have had in Baghdad. Initial difficulties raised by the Iraqi side about helicopters and aerial surveillance planes operating in the no-fly zones were overcome.
This is not to say that the operation of inspections is free from frictions, but at this juncture, we are able to perform professional no-notice inspections all over Iraq and to increase aerial surveillance.
American U-2 and French Mirage surveillance aircraft already give us valuable imagery, supplementing satellite pictures, and we would expect soon to be able to add night-vision capability through an aircraft offered to us by the Russian Federation. We also expect to all low-level, close-area surveillance through drones provided by Germany. . . .
Mr. President, Iraq, with a highly developed administrative system, should be able to provide more documentary evidence about its proscribed weapons programs. Only a few new such documents have come to light so far and been handed over since we began inspections. It was a disappointment that Iraq's declaration of Dec. 7 did not bring new documentary evidence. I hope their efforts in this respect, including the appointment of a government commission, will give significant results.
When proscribed items are deemed unaccounted for, it is above all credible accounts that is needed or the proscribed items, if they exist. Where authentic documents do not become available, interviews with persons who may have relevant knowledge and experience may be another way of obtaining evidence. Unmovic has names of such persons in its records, and they are among the people whom we seek to interview. In the last month, Iraq has provided us with names of many persons who may be relevant sources of information, in particular, persons who took part in various phases of the unilateral destruction of biological and chemical weapons and proscribed missiles in 1991.
This provision of names prompts two reflections. The first is that with such detailed information existing regarding those who took part in the unilateral destruction, surely there must also remain records regarding the quantities and other data concerning the various items destroyed.
The second reflection is that with relevant witnesses available, it becomes even more important to be able to conduct interviews in modes and locations which allow us to be confident that the testimony given is given without outside influence.
While the Iraqi side seems to have encouraged interviewees not to request the presence of Iraqi officials, so-called minders, or the taping of the interviews, conditions ensuring the absence of undue influences are difficult to attain inside Iraq.
Interviews outside the country might provide such assurance. It is our intention to request such interviews shortly.
Nevertheless, despite remaining shortcomings, interviews are useful. Since we started requesting interviews, 38 individuals were asked for private interviews, of which 10 accepted under our terms, 7 of these during the last week.
As I noted on Feb. 14, intelligence authorities have claimed that weapons of mass destruction are moved around Iraq by trucks; in particular, that there are mobile production units for biological weapons. The Iraqi side states that such activities do not exist. Several inspections have taken place at declared and undeclared sites in relation to mobile production facilities. Food-testing mobile laboratories and mobile workshops have been seen, as well as large containers with seed-processing equipment. No evidence of proscribed activities have so far been found.
Iraq is expected to assist in the development of credible ways to conduct random checks of ground transportation.
Inspectors are also engaged in examining Iraq's programs for remotely piloted vehicles. A number of sites have been inspected, with data being collected to assess the range and other capabilities of the various models found, and inspections are continuing in this area.
There have been reports, denied from the Iraq side, that proscribed activities are conducted underground. Iraq should provide information on any underground structure suitable for the production or storage of weapons of mass destruction. During inspections of declared or undeclared facilities, inspection teams have examined building structures for any possible underground facilities. In addition, ground-penetrating radar equipment was used in several specific locations. No underground facilities for chemical or biological production or storage were found so far. . . .
I should add that both for the monitoring of ground transportation and for the inspection of underground facilities, we would need to increase our staff in Iraq. I'm not talking about a doubling of the staff. I would rather have twice the amount of high-quality information about sites to inspect than twice the number of expert inspectors to send.
On Feb. 14, I reported to the Council that the Iraqi side had become more active in taking and proposing steps which potentially might shed new light on unresolved disarmament issues.
Even a week ago, when the current quarterly report was finalized, there was still relatively little tangible progress to note; hence the cautious formations in the report before you. As of today, there is more.
While during our meetings in Baghdad, the Iraqi side tried to persuade us that the Al Samoud 2 missiles they have declared fall within the permissible range set by the Security Council, the calculations of an international panel of experts led us to the opposite conclusion. Iraq has since accepted that these missiles and associated items be destroyed and has started the process of destruction under our supervision.
The destruction undertaken constitutes a substantial measure of disarmament, indeed the first since the middle of the 1990's. We are not watching the breaking of toothpicks. Lethal weapons are being destroyed. However, I must add that the report I have today tells me that no destruction work has continued today. I hope this is a temporary break.
Until today, 34 Al Samoud 2 missiles, including four training missiles, two combat warheads, one launcher and five engines, have been destroyed under Unmovic supervision. Work is continuing to identify and inventory the parts and equipment associated with the Al Samoud 2 program. Two reconstituted casting chambers used in the production of solid propellant missiles have been destroyed and the remnants melted or encased in concrete.
The legality of the Al Fatah missiles is still under review pending further investigation and measurement of various parameters of that missile.
More papers on anthrax, VX and missiles have recently been provided. Many have been found to restate what Iraq already has declared, and some will require further study and discussion.
There is a significant Iraqi effort underway to clarify a major source of uncertainty as to the quantities of biological and chemical weapons which were unilaterally destroyed in 1991. A part of this effort concerns a disposal site which was deemed too dangerous for full investigation in the past. It is now being re-excavated. Today, Iraq has unearthed eight complete bombs, comprising two liquid-fueled intact R-400 bombs and six other complete bombs. Some fragments were also found. Samples have been taken. The investigation of the destruction site could, in the best case, allow the determination of the number of bombs destroyed at that site. It should be followed by serious and credible effort to determine the separate issue of how many R-400-type bombs were produced. In this as in other matters, the inspection work is moving on and may yield results.
Iraq proposed an investigation using advanced technology to quantify the amount of unilaterally destroyed anthrax dumped at the site. However, even if the use of advanced technology could quantify the amount of anthrax said to be dumped at the site, the results would still be open to interpretation. Defining the quantity of anthrax destroyed must, of course, be followed by efforts to establish what quantity was actually produced.
With respect to VX, Iraq has recently suggested a similar method to quantify VX precursor, stated to have been unilaterally destroyed in the summer of 1991. . . .
Iraq has also recently informed us that following the adoption of the presidential decree prohibiting private individuals and mixed companies from engaging in work relating to weapons of mass destruction, further legislation on the subject is to be enacted. This appears to be in response to a letter from Unmovic requesting clarification of the issue.
Mr. President, what are we to make of these activities? One can hardly avoid the impression that after a period of somewhat reluctant cooperation, there has been an acceleration of initiatives from the Iraqi side since the end of January. This is welcome. But the value of these measures must be soberly judged by how many question marks they actually succeed in straightening out.
This is not yet clear.
Against this background, the question is now asked whether Iraq has cooperated, "immediately, unconditionally and actively," with Unmovic, as is required under Paragraph 9 of Resolution 1441. The answers can be seen from the factual descriptions that I have provided.
However, if more direct answers are desired, I would say the following. The Iraqi side has tried on occasion to attach conditions, as it did regarding helicopters and U-2 planes. It has not, however, so far persisted in these or other conditions for the exercise of any of our inspection rights. . . .
It is obvious that while the numerous initiatives which are now taken by the Iraqi side, with a view to resolving some long-standing open disarmament issues, can be seen as active or even proactive, these initiatives, three to four months into the new resolution, cannot be said to constitute immediate cooperation, nor do they necessarily cover all areas of relevance. They are nevertheless welcome . . .
I should note that the working document contains much information and discussion about the issues which existed at the end of 1998, including information which has come to light after '98. It contains much less information and discussion about the period after 1998, primarily because of paucity of information.
Nevertheless, intelligence agencies have expressed the view the proscribed programs have continued or restarted in this period. It is further contended that proscribed programs and items are located in underground facilities, as I mentioned, and that proscribed items are being moved around Iraq. The working document does contain suggestions on how these concerns may be tackled. . . .
How much time would it take to resolve the key remaining disarmament tasks? While cooperation can and is to be immediate, disarmament, and at any rate verification of it, cannot be instant. Even with a proactive Iraqi attitude induced by continued outside pressure, it will still take some time to verify sites and items, analyze documents, interview relevant persons, and draw conclusions. It will not take years, nor weeks, but months. . . .

MOHAMED ELBARADEI -- Mr. President, my report to the Council today is an update on the status of the International Atomic Energy Agency's nuclear verification activities in Iraq pursuant to Security Council Resolution 1441 and other relevant resolutions.
When I reported last to the Council on Feb. 14, I explained that the agency's inspection activities have moved well beyond the reconnaissance phase -- that is, re-establishing our knowledge base regarding Iraq nuclear capabilities -- into the investigative phase, which focuses on the central question before the I.A.E.A. relevant to disarmament: whether Iraq has revived or attempted to revive its defunct nuclear weapons program over the last four years.
At the outset, let me state one general observation: namely, that during the past four years, at the majority of Iraqi sites, industrial capacity has deteriorated substantially due to the departure of the foreign support that was often present in the late 80's, the departure of large numbers of skilled Iraqi personnel in the past decade, and the lack of consistent maintenance by Iraq of sophisticated equipment. At only a few inspected sites involved in industrial research, development and manufacturing have the facilities been improved and new personnel been taken on. This overall deterioration in industrial capacity is naturally of direct relevance to Iraq's capability for resuming a nuclear weapon program.
The I.A.E.A. has now conducted a total of 218 nuclear inspections at 141 sites, including 21 that had not been inspected before. In addition, the agency experts have taken part in many Unmovic/I.A.E.A. inspections.
Technical support for nuclear inspections has continued to expand. The three operational air samplers have collected from key locations in Iraq weekly air particulate samples that are being sent to laboratories for analysis. Additional results of water, sediment, vegetation and material sample analysis have been received from the relevant laboratories.
Our vehicle-borne radiation survey team has covered some 2,000 kilometers over the past three weeks. Survey access has been gained to over 75 facilities, including military garrisons and camps, weapons factories, truck parks and manufacturing facilities and residential areas.
Interviews have continued with relevant Iraqi personnel, at times with individuals and groups in the workplace during the course of unannounced inspections, and on other occasions, in prearranged meetings with key scientists and other specialists known to have been involved with Iraq's past nuclear program.
The I.A.E.A. has continued to conduct interviews even when the conditions were not in accordance with the I.A.E.A. prepared modalities, with a view to gaining as much information as possible, information that could be cross-checked for validity with other sources and which could be helpful in our assessment of areas under investigation.
As you may recall, when we first began to request private, unescorted interviews, the Iraqi interviewees insisted on taping the interviews and keeping the record tapes. Recently, upon our insistence, individuals have been consenting to being interviewed without escort and without a taped record. The I.A.E.A. has conducted two such private interviews in the last 10 days, and hopes that its ability to conduct private interviews will continued unhindered, including possibly interviews outside Iraq.
I should add that we're looking into further refining the modalities for conducting interviews to ensure that they are conducted freely and to alleviate concerns that interviews are being listened to by other Iraqi parties. In our view, interviews outside Iraq may be the best way to ensure that interviews are free. And we intend therefore to request such interviews shortly. We are also asking other states to enable us to conduct interviews with former Iraqi scientists that now reside in those states.
Mr. President, in the last few weeks, Iraq has provided a considerable volume of documentation relative to the issues I reported earlier as being of particular concern, including Iraq's efforts to procure aluminum tubes, its attempted procurement of magnets and magnets production capabilities, and its reported attempt to import uranium. I will touch briefly on the progress made on each of these issues.
Since my last update to the Council, the primary technical focus of I.A.E.A. field activities in Iraq has been on resolving several outstanding issues related to the possible resumption of efforts by Iraq to enrich uranium through the use of centrifuges. For that purpose, the I.A.E.A. assembled a specially qualified team of international centrifuge-manufacturing experts.
With regard to the aluminum tubes, the I.A.E.A. has conducted a thorough investigation of Iraq's attempt to purchase large quantities of high-strength aluminum tubes. As previously reported, Iraq has maintained that these aluminum tubes were sought for rocket production. Extensive field investigation and document analysis have failed to uncover any evidence that Iraq intended to use these 81-millimeter tubes for any project other than the reverse engineering of rockets. The Iraqi decision-making process with regard to the design of these rockets was well documented. Iraq has provided copies of design documents, procurement records, minutes of committee meetings and supporting data and samples.
A thorough analysis of this information, together with information gathered from interviews with Iraqi personnel, has allowed the I.A.E.A. to develop a coherent picture of attempted purchase and intended usage of the 81-millimeter aluminum tubes, as well as the rationale behind the changes in the tolerance. Drawing on this information, the I.A.E.A. has learned that the original tolerance for the 81-millimeter tubes were set prior to 1987 and were based on physical measurements taken from a small number of imported rockets in Iraq's possession. Initial attempts to reverse-engineer the rockets met with little success. Tolerances were adjusted during the following years as part of ongoing efforts to revitalize the project and improve operational efficiency. The project languished for a long period during this time, and became the subject of several committees, which resulted in specification and tolerance changes on each occasion.
Based on available evidence, the I.A.E.A. team has concluded that Iraq's efforts to import these aluminum tubes were not likely to have been related to the manufacture of centrifuge; and moreover, that it was highly unlikely that Iraq could have achieved the considerable redesign needed to use them in a revived centrifuge program. However, this issue will continue to be scrutinized and investigated.
With respect to reports about Iraq's efforts to import high-strength permanent magnets or to achieve the capability for producing such magnets for use in a centrifuge enrichment program, I should note that since 1998, Iraq has purchased high-strength magnets for various uses. Iraq has declared inventories of magnets of 12 different designs. The I.A.E.A. has verified that previously acquired magnets have been used for missile-guidance systems, industrial machinery, electricity meters and field telephones. Through visits to research and production sites, review of engineering drawings and analysis of sample magnets, the I.A.E.A. expert familiar with the use of such magnets in centrifuge enrichment have verified that none of the magnets that Iraq has declared could be used directly for centrifuge magnetic bearings.
In June 2001, Iraq designed -- signed a contract for a new magnet production line for delivery and installation in 2003. The delivery has not yet occurred, and Iraqi documentations and interviews of Iraqi personnel indicate that this contract will not be executed. However, they have concluded that the contract -- that the replacement of foreign procurement with domestic magnet production seems reasonable from an economic point of view. In addition, the training and experience acquired by Iraq in pre-1991 period make it likely that Iraq possesses the expertise to manufacture high-strength permanent magnets suitable for use in enrichment centrifuges. The I.A.E.A. will continue, therefore, to monitor and inspect equipment and materials that could be used to make magnets for enrichment centrifuges.
With regard to uranium acquisition, the I.A.E.A. has made progress in its investigation into reports that Iraq sought to buy uranium from Niger in recent years. This investigation was centered on documents provided by a number of states that pointed to an agreement between Niger and Iraq for the sale of uranium between 1999 and 2001.
The I.A.E.A. has discussed these reports with the government of Iraq and Niger, both of which have denied that any such activity took place. For its part, Iraq has provided the I.A.E.A. with a comprehensive explanation of its relations with Niger and has described a visit by an Iraqi official to a number of African countries, including Niger, in February 1999, which Iraq thought might have given rise to the reports.
The I.A.E.A. was able to review correspondence coming from various bodies of the government of Niger and to compare the form, format, contents and signature of that correspondence with those of the alleged procurement-related documentations. Based on thorough analysis, the I.A.E.A. has concluded, with the concurrence of outside experts, that these documents, which formed the basis for the reports of recent uranium transaction between Iraq and Niger, are in fact not authentic. We have therefore concluded that these specific allegations are unfounded. However, we will continue to follow up any additional evidence, if it emerges, relevant to efforts by Iraq to illicitly import nuclear material.
Many concerns regarding Iraq's possible intention to resume its nuclear program have arisen from Iraq procurement efforts reported by a number of states. In addition, many of Iraq's efforts to procure commodities and products, including magnets and aluminum tubes, have been conducted in contravention of the sanctions control specified under Security Council Resolution 661 and other relevant resolutions. The issue of procurement efforts remains under thorough investigation, and further verification will be forthcoming. In fact, an I.A.E.A. team of technical experts is currently in Iraq, composed of custom investigators and computer forensic specialists to conduct -- which is conducting a series of investigations through inspection at trading companies and commercial organizations, aimed at understanding Iraq's pattern of procurement.
Mr. President, in conclusion, I'm able to report today that in the area of nuclear weapons, the most lethal weapons of mass destruction, inspections in Iraq are moving forward. Since the resumption of inspection a little over three months ago, and particularly during the three weeks since my last oral report to the Council, the I.A.E.A. has made important progress in identifying what nuclear-related capabilities remain in Iraq and in its assessment of whether Iraq has made any effort to revive its past nuclear program during the intervening four years since inspections were brought to a halt.
At this stage, the following can be stated: One, there is no indication of resumed nuclear activities in those buildings that were identified through the use of satellite imagery as being reconstructed or newly erected since 1998, nor any indication of nuclear-related prohibited activities at any inspected sites.
Second, there is no indication that Iraq has attempted to import uranium since 1990.
Three, there is no indication that Iraq has attempted to import aluminum tubes for use in centrifuge enrichment. Moreover, even had Iraq pursued such a plan, it would have been -- it would have encountered practical difficulties in manufacturing centrifuges out of the aluminum tubes in question.
Fourthly, although we are still reviewing issues related to magnets and magnet production, there is no indication to date that Iraq imported magnets for use in a centrifuge enrichment program.
As I stated above, the I.A.E.A. will naturally continue further to scrutinize and investigate all of the above issues. . . . 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Security Council heard weapons inspectors' reports on Iraq yesterday. From left at the curved table were Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Britain, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Dr. Mohammed ElBaradei, Hans Blix, and Mohammed Aldouri of Iraq. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HELICOPTERS (64%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (90%); JACK STRAW (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



224 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Mayoral Appointees Miss Meetings on Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
For months, even as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has sought greater influence over the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, three of the eight mayoral appointees to the corporation's board have been absent from the debates over the future of downtown.
 One mayoral board seat has been empty since November, following the resignation of a director appointed by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Two other mayoral appointees -- E. Stanley O'Neal, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, and Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange -- have missed two-thirds of the scheduled board meetings over the last year. 
 The situation has left the development corporation with a membership skewed in favor of Gov. George E. Pataki, who also appoints eight of the 16 board members. 
The poor attendance has come during the busiest period of the development corporation's 15-month existence, as architect Daniel Libeskind's plan for the World Trade Center site won final approval last week.In the last few months, the agency also began paying out grants designed to retain and attract residents in Lower Manhattan.
The absences also raise questions about the mayor's commitment to the development corporation as a primary vehicle to oversee the rebuilding effort downtown, said Robert D. Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, which is part of the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York. 
The Civic Alliance has supported the effort to give the mayor more influence over the process, Mr. Yaro said. But too often the development corporation's board has been used simply to rubber-stamp decisions made by the governor and the mayor, he added.
Officials said Thursday that the Bloomberg administration wants to reduce the influence of the development corporation and give the city more authority over rebuilding efforts.
Edward Skyler, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said yesterday that the mayor was aware of the absences. "Considering that we are at a turning point," in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, Mr. Skyler said, "it doesn't make sense to replace board members until we have a clearer idea of what the city's role is going to be as we enter the next phase of the rebuilding process."
Of the eight mayoral appointees, four seats were filled by Mr. Giuliani when the board was established in November 2001, and four were appointed last April by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, when the agency's board was expanded from 11 to 16. 
Mr. O'Neal, who was appointed by Mr. Bloomberg in April, has missed eight of the 11 board meetings since he was appointed, according to a review of the minutes of the development corporation's board meetings.
Paul W. Critchlow, a senior vice president for communications and public affairs at Merrill Lynch, cited scheduling conflicts for most of Mr. O'Neal's absences. Mr. Critchlow said that Mr. O'Neal offered to resign from the board in October, "when it became apparent that the demands of his position at Merrill Lynch were going to make it difficult for him to attend."
The resignation offer was declined by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, officials said.
Mr. Grasso, who was appointed by Mr. Giuliani, has also missed eight meetings in the last year, including the last four. Robert T. Zito, an executive vice president for communications at the stock exchange, also cited scheduling conflicts for most of Mr. Grasso's absences. 
John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the development corporation's board, said that both Mr. Grasso and Mr. O'Neal had been active advisers despite their absences. 
A third board seat has been empty since November, when Howard Wilson, a lawyer appointed to the board by Mr. Giuliani, resigned following his move to the law firm Proskauer Rose. That firm represents Larry A. Silverstein, who holds the lease on the World Trade Center site, in his lawsuit against the insurers, and state officials said it created a possible conflict of interest.
Most development board's members have good attendance records. From his appointment to his resignation, Mr. Wilson attended all 13 of the agency's board meetings. Six of the other 13 directors also have perfect attendance records, and four others have missed only one meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); TERRORISM (59%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) WYATT, EDWARD; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); O'NEAL, E STANLEY; GRASSO, RICHARD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



225 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Is It Good for the Jews? 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, a group of senior intelligence officials in the Defense Department sat for an hour listening to a briefing by a writer who claims -- I am not making this up -- that messages encoded in the Hebrew text of the Old Testament provide clues to the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden. One of the officials told me that they had agreed to meet the writer, Michael Drosnin, author of a Nostradamus-style best seller, without understanding that he was promoting Biblical prophecy. Still, rather than shoo him away, they listened politely as he consumed several man-hours of valuable intelligence-crunching time. Apparently he has given similar briefings to top officials of Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency.
 Maybe we're all a little too desperate these days for a simple formula to explain how our safe world came unhinged. That, as much as anything, may explain one of the more enduring conspiracy theories of the moment, the notion that we are about to send a quarter of a million American soldiers to war for the sake of Israel. 
 This idea has received only fleeting attention in the mainstream discussion of our looming invasion of Iraq, and it would not deserve more except for three things: (1) The idea that this war is about Israel is persistent and more widely held than you may think. (2) It has interesting ripples in our domestic politics. (3) It has, like many dubious theories, sprouted from a seed of truth. Israel is part of the story. And why shouldn't it be?
The conspiracy theory appears in several variations, ranging from malignant to merely cynical, but it goes something like this: A cadre of pro-Zionist zealots within the Bush administration and among its media chorus (the "amen corner," as the isolationist Pat Buchanan crudely called them last time we threatened Iraq) has long schemed to make the Middle East safer for Israel by uprooting the hostile regime of Saddam Hussein. They have finally succeeded, the theory goes, in pushing their agenda up to the desk of a gullible president.
Exhibit A for this plot is a document entitled "A Clean Break: A New Strategy for Securing the Realm," prepared in 1996 by a group of American defense thinkers for the hard-line Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. This study proposed an aggressive redirection of Israeli strategy, including a plan for "removing Saddam Hussein from power." Three of the authors of the prescription -- Richard Perle, Douglas Feith and David Wurmser --are now prominent "embeds" in the Bush administration.
The "Clean Break" group, interestingly, did not call for an American conquest of Saddam. With President Bill Clinton in office, there was little hope of that. They proposed that Israel handle it together with Jordan and Turkey. Jordan's Hashemite dynasty would share the management of Iraq with the Shiites -- presumably leaving the fate of the poor Kurds in Turkish hands. As for America, the document proposed that Israel adopt a new policy of self-reliance, immediately declining economic aid and, eventually, military assistance. This was all a bit much, even for the ultranationalist Mr. Netanyahu.
A less conspiracy-minded observer might point out that the longstanding Bushite animosity toward Iraq is complex and hardly secret, and the fact that our interests coincide with Israel's does not mean that a Zionist fifth column has hijacked the president's brain. But that would not satisfy the yearning for a simple story.
Reinforcing this sinister narrative is the suspicion that the presidential mastermind Karl Rove designed the war as shameless pandering to Florida's Jewish voters and to the tens of millions of evangelical Christians who have taken up Israel as a passion. (Many evangelicals love Israel because in their Biblical end-of-days scenario, the gathering of Jews in the Holy Land is necessary for the Second Coming. Inconveniently for the Jews, the story calls for them to either abandon their beliefs or be exterminated in time for the great rapture.)
While the polls show that the attitudes of American Jews on a war with Iraq are not appreciably different from those of the general electorate, most of the big Jewish organizations and many donors (with the important exception of Hollywood donors) are backing war. 
I don't for a second believe that Mr. Bush is marching to war to secure the votes of Palm Beach County. But Republican strategists do foresee -- and savor -- the fact that a victory in Iraq could give the president new inroads with a small but politically active and traditionally Democratic constituency.
"If the policy succeeds in the war and the peace," one Republican strategist said, "then I think you'll see a further tectonic shift of Jewish political support, both in terms of money and votes, toward Bush. That's not why it's being done, but it will be a consequence if they're successful."
Mr. Bush may also be enjoying the way the question of Israel and the Palestinians has sown strife within the antiwar ranks. Michael Lerner, editor of the leftist Jewish magazine Tikkun, says he was blackballed from speaking at an antiwar rally in San Francisco because some of the sponsors refused to have a "pro-Israel" speaker, an incident that prompted considerable gloating among hawks.
You hear lowbrow versions of the it's-really-about-Israel theory at protest rallies, especially in Europe, where selective sympathy for the Palestinians runs high. You can hear more sophisticated versions, sometimes whispered or oblique, among scholars, op-ed writers and politicians. They speak of the "Israel-centric" war on terror or "Sharon's war."
Making the world safer for us -- defusing terrorism and beginning to reform a region that is a source of toxic hostility to what we stand for -- happens to make the world safer for Israel as well. But the idea that Israel's interests are driving one of the most momentous shifts in America's foreign policy is simple-minded and offensive. (There is also a simple-minded and offensive flip side, which holds that opposition to the war is heavily fueled by anti-Semitism -- another sweeping slander with a grain of truth in it.)
What is demonstrably true is that Israelis believe that the war in Iraq is -- to use a phrase that is a staple of Jewish satire -- good for the Jews. Even though Israel is a likely target of Iraqi reprisals when war breaks out, it is the only country I know of where polls show overwhelming support for an invasion to oust Saddam, preferably sooner.
The administration prefers not to advertise Israel alongside Bulgaria and Spain on its marquee of allied supporters, for the same reason it has gone to tremendous lengths to keep Israel out of the coming war. No one wants to feed the dangerous idea that this is, as the jihad propagandists claim, a war of Americans and Zionists against Arabs and Islam. 
There are obvious reasons that Israelis would like to rid the region of a man who trains terrorists and pays blood money to suicide bombers' families. But the deeper explanation, says Stephen Cohen, an analyst at the Israel Policy Forum, is profound despair over the bloody dead end in which Israeli-Palestinian politics sit. A conquest of Iraq offers the prospect that the United States will take the region in hand. It is, to many Israelis, the only hope of change for the better.
In his speech last week to the American Enterprise Institute, President Bush for the first time seemed to embrace this thankless responsibility. He declared that success in Iraq could break the impasse and move Israel and the Palestinians toward the obvious two-state solution. He underscored this as "my personal commitment." 
The speech may have been a sop to European opinion, but a successful war would offer Mr. Bush a precious opportunity. A lot of people wish that he had engaged the Palestinian question intensively and earlier, if only to gain some credibility with the Arabs prior to disarming Saddam. But later would still be better than never.
The question is, What will Mr. Bush make of this moment? If the U.S. manages to make a more benign Iraq -- and perhaps a chastened Syria -- the Israelis could decide to dig in their heels: Our friend Mr. Bush is here, he's on our side; we can now sit tight, wait for the Palestinians to read the handwriting on the walls of Baghdad and maybe offer them half a state.
Or the Americans could seize the opportunity to say to Ariel Sharon, who has shown no prior gift for strategic statesmanship: "We are here now -- you know we won't let you down. It's time to roll back the settlements and close a deal."
Will Mr. Bush choose to lead on this? We know now that the man isn't afraid of a big gamble. But we also know that he likes his stories black and white, and no amount of conquest will make the Middle East a simple plot.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (77%); RELIGION (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (87%); BILL CLINTON (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



226 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Insurance For Terrorism Still a Rarity 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
With government officials warning of renewed terrorist attacks in the United States, most of corporate America still has no insurance coverage for acts of terrorism.
 Last fall, at the insistence of President Bush, Congress provided federal support for insurance companies, and they began offering the coverage in late November. But few corporations in New York, Washington, Chicago or other big cities -- where the authorities say attacks are most likely -- have bought the coverage. 
 Many corporations say the coverage is too expensive, according to insurers, especially since the federal government has agreed to pay most of the losses in a major attack. They also say that while the insurance provides economic protection against bombs and many other kinds of violence from foreign terrorists, it does not cover attacks by American extremists or attacks by anyone with nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. 
Moreover, insurers and brokers say, most corporations simply refuse to believe that they are potential targets.
"There is a sense of unreality about terrorism as a threat as 9/11 recedes in the minds of people," said Mike McGavick, the chief executive of Safeco, one of the top five insurers of small and medium-size businesses in America. "Even as war is approaching, people tend to believe it's a 'not me' event."
The owners of skyscrapers in Midtown and Lower Manhattan are an exception, said Damian Testa, an executive at Kay Insurance Associates, another major broker. Some of these people feel in danger from terrorists, he said, but primarily, they are buying it because "their lenders are insisting on it."
"In the rest of Manhattan, in the other boroughs and most of the rest of the country," Mr. Testa said, "people don't perceive a threat at all. And the banks aren't pushing them either."
But even some property owners in Midtown and Lower Manhattan have been reluctant to buy the coverage. "You would buy it only if your mortgage is requiring you to buy it," said Gary M. Rosenberg, a lawyer for the Durst Organization, which owns seven big office buildings in the city. Under pressure from lenders, Mr. Rosenberg said, Durst bought $600 million in terrorism coverage for about $200,000. Otherwise, he said, the company would have bought about half as much.
"It's not worth a heck of a lot," he said, referring to limitations of the coverage. "And it still costs a fair amount of money." 
Because so few companies have terrorism insurance, an attack like the one on the World Trade Center -- which caused at least $40 billion in financial losses -- would probably have a much more devastating financial effect today than on Sept. 11. Terrorism was regarded as a rarity in the United States then and coverage for such attacks was included free in commercial policies. 
Shortly after Sept. 11, however, the insurers withdrew coverage for terrorism, saying they could not calculate the likelihood of a terrorist attack or withstand repeated losses on the scale of the trade center attack.
As a result of the federal legislation, which Mr. Bush signed into law in November, all commercial insurers are compelled to offer terrorism coverage. But no one is required to buy it. 
Jill Dalton, a managing director of Marsh Inc., the world's largest insurance broker, said that fewer than one in five of Marsh's major corporate customers were buying terrorism coverage. Hartford, one of the largest commercial insurers, says that even fewer of its major customers -- about one in six -- have signed up for the coverage. Those customers include banks, manufacturers, construction companies and operators of shopping centers. 
"The average company is not buying terrorist insurance," said Maurice R. Greenberg, chief executive of the American International Group in an interview this week on CNBC.
Insurers and brokers say prices for terrorism insurance are generally running from 5 percent to 200 percent of the cost of a customer's standard property coverage, with many insurers charging about 20 percent for the additional coverage.
As an example of how the rates work, Suzanne Douglass, a managing director dealing with terrorism coverage at the Willis Group, another big broker, estimated that $100 million worth of property insurance could cost about $70,000 a year. In many cases, she said, the terrorism coverage could cost an additional $14,000 a year. But at the high end -- for a building considered a likely target, for example -- the cost could easily be an additional $70,000, bringing the owner's insurance bill to $140,000.
According to Deborah Beck, the executive vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York, a trade group of skyscraper owners that campaigned hard for the federal support, price is a big deterrent for building owners. Others "don't feel their particular property is at risk," she said, adding, "That's particularly true when you move out into the boroughs and maybe north of 60th Street."
Prices vary widely. For customers in rural areas or in cities, but far from famous buildings, bridges, tunnels and stadiums -- the most likely targets -- some insurers are providing terrorism coverage free. But, Ms. Dalton said, in a few extreme cases the coverage has been priced at more than 2,000 percent of standard property coverage.
"It ends up being very chaotic for the buyer," said Richard L. Thomas, the chief underwriting officer for A.I.G. in the United States, "and that's part ofthe reason why more people aren't buying."
Prices for terrorism coverage are relatively high, in many cases, insurers and brokers said, because even with the government support, insurance companies are still left with the prospect of paying out substantial amounts. 
Under the federal program, the government is to pay 90 percent of all costs after losses exceed $10 billion. Below that threshold, insurers are required to pay for losses up to the equivalent of 7 percent of the total commercial property premiums paid to them in 2003. In 2004, the insurers' share is 10 percent and in 2005 they are to pay 15 percent.
The deductible of 7 percent this year would come to $350 million for Hartford compared with estimated losses for the company of about $590 million in the World Trade Center attack. At 7 percent, A.I.G. would be required to pay $1.2 billion before the government program kicked in, somewhat more than its $900 million in net losses from the trade center attacks.
The lack of enthusiasm for coverage worries insurance companies. 
"The insurers believe they have to sell the coverage on a broad base in order to get the premiums they need to cover their deductibles," Ms. Douglass said. "They also don't want to be in a position where the only people buying the coverage are those most clearly at risk. That undermines the whole premise of insurance of spreading the risk over a large number of policyholders."
Some brokers and insurers say they suspect customers are also holding back on buying terrorism coverage because they think the government will step in with tens of millions of dollars in assistance as it did after the trade center attacks.
"Some people may see that as an example of what would happen in a future terrorist attack," Mr. Thomas said. "And government funds would be available to them. So why buy insurance? I'm sure some people look at it that way." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); INSURANCE (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%) TERRORISM; INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) TREASTER, JOSEPH B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



227 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: 308,000 Jobs Lost in February, The MostSince Post-9/11 Period 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
The nation suffered job losses in February that were the worst since the two months after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the government reported yesterday. Bad weather and war fears combined to prolong the economy's malaise, and the unemployment rate nudged up to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in January.
 The numbers from the Labor Department showed the disappearance of 308,000 jobs from the nation's payrolls. The Bush administration called the figures disappointing but said they showed the need for quick action on the president's plan to cut taxes. 
 "Today's news underscores the need for us to act now," said John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary. He contended that carrying out President Bush's proposal would soon lead to the creation of jobs. But the White House's economic policy came under a barrage of criticism from many prominent Democrats.
"The Bush economic plan has left this country unprepared for the economy of the future and without a strategy to spur meaningful economic growth," Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Missouri Democrat who is running for president, said in a statement. Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader, released a statement accusing President Bush of having "turned our economy into a job-destroying machine."
The latest reading on the labor market was potentially the most important in three months, free of statistical quirks related to the holiday season, which distorted earlier measurements. The figures, which are all adjusted in an effort to take account of seasonal variations, were almost uniformly negative. Payrolls shrank in virtually every goods-producing industry and edged down or remained flat across the service sector. Only government payrolls managed a broad-based increase.
"It's uniform, across the board -- you couldn't find a good sector in there," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's.
The manufacturing sector had shown some promising signs during December and January, but the Labor Department's report suggested that the lift was short-lived. Since November, 140,000 jobs have vanished from manufacturing industries. The service sector lost an estimated 204,000 jobs in February.
Some forecasters, who had been expecting, at worst, a shallow drop in payrolls, said that the effect of winter storms might have hurt the credibility of the February figures.
"I am tempted to reserve judgment," said Ram Bhagavatula, chief economist of Royal Bank of Scotland Financial Markets in North America. "It was such a terrible month weather-wise, it is difficult to draw any clean reading of what the underlying trend is."
Despite the confounding effects of the weather, at least one trend remained unmistakable: the manufacturing sector continued to lose jobs. In February, the number of jobs in manufacturing dropped below 11 million, in seasonally adjusted terms, for the first time since February 1946.
The Labor Department's report could signal the end of a recent bright spot for the sector. The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that orders to factories increased by 2.1 percent in January -- the best performance since July 2002. Members of the Conference Board, a corporate executives' group, also reported solid production during the winter months.
A pullback in auto manufacturing could spell more trouble, though. Last week, General Motors and Ford Motor announced plans to cut output in the second quarter. At General Motors, production in North America will fall more than 10 percent, to 1.39 million units, compared with figures in the period a year earlier.
Some help could be on the way because the Bush administration has taken up the cause of manufacturers, which some economists view more as part of the nation's past than its future.
"We don't think the best days for manufacturing are behind them," said Trevor Francis, a spokesman for the Commerce Department. "We're going to continue to look for avenues for them to succeed and return to the economic dominance that they had in the past."
Jobs in construction also dipped, by 48,000, to 6.5 million. Though the weather may have constrained contractors somewhat in February, the surprising strength of the sector during the economic slowdown could be starting to dissipate.
"Autos and housing one has to be careful about," Mr. Bhagavatula said. In most recessions, he said, sales plunge in both industries and demand begins to accumulate, setting the stage for a strong recovery. Over the last two years, however, the Federal Reserve's cuts in interest rates have spurred consumers to buy both houses and cars.
"This time there is no pent-up demand," Mr. Bhagavatula said. "My expectation is you're going to see some slowdown in both."
The service sector, which usually remains fairly stable during economic slowdowns, also suffered a decline in February. Jobs returned to their level of September, about 107 million, after rising slightly in the intervening months. Some of the worst losses came in restaurants and bars, which have shed jobs almost continuously since July 2001.
Several factors have diminished the demand for labor, said Hudson Riehle, senior vice president for research at the National Restaurant Association. Sales have improved in real terms over the last two years -- the first time ever in a recessionary period -- but most of the growth has come in take-out, delivery and drive-through business. In addition, productivity increases in food-and-beverage establishments have outpaced those in other industries.
The potential for a war in Iraq has also affected the industry. "Many of the operators are hesitant to staff up even though they see sales gains, due to the uncertainty of the geopolitical events," Mr. Riehle said.
The Labor Department's survey of households, which relies on a smaller sample than its payroll survey, showed a slight increase in employment in February. Mr. Wyss said that people working on contract and reservists called up to active duty might not show up in the payrolls survey. The Labor Department did not quantify these effects. But even in the survey of households, the number of workers who had given up on finding a job and left the labor force rose in February, to 450,000, a total unmatched since March 1996.
Even if the White House's economic agenda moves forward rapidly, which may be unlikely in light of intensifying political jousting, help for job hunters may be several months away.
"Moving up the tax cuts, if you really got it on the fast track through Congress and got it signed, would have an impact beginning in the summer," Mr. Wyss said. As for the proposal to abolish taxes on dividends, "even if you got it passed, you wouldn't see any cash until next April; there's no quick fix."
The relatively disappointing report also caused some forecasters to wonder whether the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates again. "My expectation is that on March 18 they'll probably do another insurance cut of 25 basis points," Mr. Bhagavatula said. Merrill Lynch yesterday revised its prediction for the meeting, from no change to a quarter-point rate cut.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carole Fontaine lost her job with the State of Connecticut Department of Social Services in January. Many more workers around the nation joined her last month as sectors across the economy showed weakness. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Graph: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of ChangeJan.: +9.1%Dec.: +1.4Nov.: -1.7 Graph tracks the net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding from August 2001-Jan. 2003. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C2) Chart: "The Labor Picture in February"Graph tracks the unemployment rate from Feb. 2002-Feb.2003. Civilian unemployment: 5.8 percent BY DEMOGRAPHIC WhiteJan.: 5.1%Feb.: 5.0% BlackJan.: 10.3Feb.: 10.5 Hispanic*Jan.: 7.8Feb.: 7.7 Men 20 and overJan.: 5.4Feb.: 5.3 Women 20 and overJan.: 4.7Feb.: 5.0 Teenagers (16-19)Jan.: 16.8Feb.: 17.1 OUT OF WORK (millions) TotalJan.: 8.3Feb.: 8.5 Lost jobJan.: 4.6Feb.: 4.8 Left jobJan.: 0.8Feb.: 0.8 Returning to labor marketJan.: 2.3Feb.: 2.4 New to labor marketJan.: 0.6Feb.: 0.6 Graph tracks the number of people employed from Feb. 2002-Feb. 2003. Nonfarm payroll survey: 130.5 millionHousehold survey: 137.4 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions) NonfarmJan.: 130.5Feb.: 130.9 GoodsJan.: 23.6Feb.: 23.5 ServicesJan.: 107.3Feb.: 107.1 Agriculture+Jan.: 2.3Feb.: 2.2 SHARE OF POPULATION Work forceJan.: 62.5%Feb.: 62.4% Labor force (workers and unemployed)Jan.: 66.3Feb.: 66.3 All figures are seasonally adjusted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Revised because of change in classifications. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WEATHER (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (62%); RBS (LSE) (62%); RBS (AMS) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); TOM DASCHLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



228 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-6

Tense Security Council Debates Action on Iraq
The British foreign minister, Jack Straw, offered a last-ditch compromise giving Iraq until March 17 to disarm as an American-led war on Iraq is poised to begin and the diplomatic endgame to unite the Security Council seems futile. French Foreign Minister, Dominique de Villepin, reiterated that France will not pass a resolution allowing automatic use of force. A1

Foreign ministers from the 15 member states of the United Nations Security Council acted as if they had come to a moment that would define the role of collective action in world affairs for some time to come. Some nations remain determined to hold their ground, diplomats say, in the belief that no superpower can function in isolation. A1

Politicians, editorial writers and people worldwide said they were bracing for war after President Bush's warning that days may remain before a military action in Iraq, regardless of approval from the United Nations Security Council. Polls suggest that public opinion in many nations strongly favors U.N. approval. A10

A team of American Special Operations forces, armed with intelligence gained from the arrest of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, was sent to the border region between Pakistan and Afghanistan to find Osama bin Laden, government officials said. But without progress to report, American officials lowered expectations of an immediate capture. A12

Israel Reclaims Territory
Israel began taking territory ceded to the Palestinians under the Oslo accords after weeks of intensified raids into the Gaza Strip. The Israeli Army said it would seize more areas in Gaza unless militants stop firing rockets. A1

Stalled Peace in Ivory Coast
The January peace accord between the Ivory Coast government of President Laurent Gbagbo and rebel groups that have sought to unseat him is facing new hurdles. The rebels say they will drop claims to two pivotal cabinet positions but require the guaranteed safety of their leaders and the transfer of power to Seydou Diarra, a veteran politician. A4

NATIONAL A13-15

Cost of Gulf Deployment Estimated at $25 Billion
The Congressional Budget Officeestimated that simply sending troops and equipment to the Persian Gulf to fight against Iraq and returning them home would cost nearly $25 billion and that the total cost of a potential war would be higher. A11

Republicans Back Bush on Iraq
Senate Republicans rallied behind President Bush and his policy on Iraq, saying they fully supported his intent to disarm Saddam Hussein forcibly with or without new United Nations backing. A10

Mixed Preparation Results
Federal workers across Washington are preparing for possible terrorist attacks, but officials are fumbling over readying their agencies and the results have varied widely. A11

Ailing Tucson Bishop Resigning
Pope John Paul II accepted the resignation of the ailing Bishop Manuel D. Moreno of Tucson, who presided over a diocese with a disproportionate share of priest sex offenders and large financial settlements with victims that have put the diocese on the verge of bankruptcy. A13

Air Force Chief Issues Warning
The Air Force chief of staff said senior officials at the Air Force Academy could be held accountable for complaints that cadets faced indifference or retaliation when they reported that they had been raped. A13

EDUCATION

Joint Effort to Save a College
The 39 colleges that constitute the United Negro College Fund voted to give almost $1.5 million from their budgets to Morris Brown College in Atlanta in an effort to rescue it from financial ruin. A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Rules for Dietary Labels
The Food and Drug Administration moved to impose new rules on dietary supplements that would force manufacturers to make clean and accurately labeled products. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New York Senators Compete for the Limelight
People close to both Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer say there is growing competition and wariness between the two, who share the same state, the same party, the same issues and the same passion for the limelight. A1

New Jersey May Hold Bear Hunt
The agency that writes New Jersey's hunting regulations has proposed the state's first bear hunt since 1970 to thin a bear population that has been moving into more suburban areas. B1

Religion Journal B6

ARTS & IDEAS B9-23

Broadway Strike Halts Musicals
Actors and stagehands voted to honor a strike by musicians over how many of them should be employed in each theater's orchestra pit. Broadway producers, who appeared to be taken by surprise by the union solidarity, announced that nearly all musicals would be shut for the weekend. A1

The timing could not have been worse for producers, who have already grappled with a bitter winter and a weak economy. B22

The first sign of trouble for many theatergoers was a giant inflatable rat set up by representatives of the musicians' union. A31

FASHION B24

SPORTS D1-7

2014 World Cup Site
The 2014 World Cup will be held in South America, returning there for the first time since 1978. The U.S. Soccer Federation will prepare to bid for the 2018 World Cup. D7

OBITUARIES B7

Dr. Alexander R. Stokes
The scientist and mathematician who discerned in 1950 that DNA is helical in shape was 83. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Unemployment Rises in U.S.
The United States lost 308,000 jobs in February, the worst decline since the two months after Sept. 11, 2001. Bad weather and war fears helped push the unemployment rate to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in January. A1

Though interest rates are near their lowest levels in decades, the loss of 308,000 jobs in February drove some analysts to switch views and predict that the Federal Reserve would cut rates at its next meeting. C1

Few Insured Against Terror
Most American companies have no insurance coverage for terrorism. Insurers say available policies do not cover some forms of attack. C1

Future of 'Sopranos' in Doubt
Representatives of James Gandolfini, star of "The Sopranos," filed suit to get him out of his contract. HBO's chief executive said the action could mean the end of the show. C1

Union Challenge at UAL
The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association believes it can challenge the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers for the right to represent 14,000 mechanics at United Airlines. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A fractured Security Council; the Air Force Academy scandal; heading off a tobacco plague; Verlyn Klinkenborg on this suspended season.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B20
TV Listings B23
Crossword B20
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIGION (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLITICS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); WRITERS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JACK STRAW (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (78%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); FRANCE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



229 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Jobless Rate Rises to 5.8% As 308,000 Jobs Are Lost
The Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate rose to 5.8 percent in February, from 5.7 percent in January, and that 308,000 jobs disappeared from the nation's payrolls, the worst job loss since the two months after Sept. 11, 2001. Bad weather and war fears combined to prolong the economy's malaise.
 The job figures were almost uniformly negative. Payrolls shrank in virtually every goods-producing industry and edged down or remained flat across the service sector. Only government payrolls managed a broad-based increase. Page A1. 

Some of the deepest job cuts in February were recorded by restaurants and bars, which lost 85,000 positions on a seasonally adjusted basis. The downward trend has continued almost uninterrupted since the summer of 2001, yet real sales have risen across the industry. C2.

Actors Support Musicians' Strike
Much of Broadway went dark last night when actors and stagehands honored a strike by the musicians over how many of them should be employed in each theater's orchestra pit. Broadway producers, who appeared to be taken by surprise by the union solidarity, announced that all musicals -- except for "Cabaret," which operates under a different contract -- would be closed for the weekend. A1.

China Is Buying Stake in an Oil Field
China's state-controlled offshore oil company announced that it would buy a $615 million stake in an immense oil field in the Caspian Sea, the boldest move yet by China to slow its rapidly growing dependence on oil from the politically volatile Persian Gulf. C3.

Group to Take On Machinists' Union
The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association said that it had gained enough support to challenge the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers over the right to represent 14,000 mechanics at United Airlines, which is in bankruptcy. C2.

Bristol-Myers Settles Charges
Bristol-Myers Squibb settled antitrust charges by agreeing to a 10-year ban on its past practice of filing new patent listings that automatically lock out generic competitors to a particular drug for 30 months. C2.

Greenspan Supports Derivatives
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said derivatives have accelerated globalization, raised living standards, and helped keep the United States from sinking into a deep recession. The use of derivatives -- obligations derived from debt and equity securities, commodities and currencies -- has "significantly improved the flexibility of economies," Mr. Greenspan said. C14.

Stocks Up Slightly in Mixed Session
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 66.04 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 7,740.03; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 6.79 points or or 0.8 percent, to close at 828.89; and the Nasdaq composite index increased 2.4 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,305.29. C4.

Jury Rules for Software Makers
RSA Security and VeriSign, makers of software to protect Internet transactions, did not infringe patents held by a retired engineer, a jury has decided. C2.

Federal-Mogul Offers a Plan
Federal-Mogul, the bankrupt maker of auto parts, has proposed setting aside half of its stock to pay off hundreds of millions of dollars in asbestos liability claims. C4.

Europe Backs Glaxo and Bayer Drug
GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer said the European Union had approved their impotence treatment Levitra. Levitra is still being considered by the United States regulators. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,740.03 up 66.04Nasdaq composite -- 1,305.29 up 2.4010-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.65% Unch.The euro -- $1.1010 up 0.0036The dollar -- 116.99 yen down 0.41 Graph tracks the unemployment rate since 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (84%); LAYOFFS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); RECESSION (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); THEATER (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); MUSIC (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (71%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); GENERIC DRUGS (69%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); AIRLINES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (64%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2003 



230 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Men's Fashions of The Times Magazine; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Disposition 

BYLINE:  By Horacio Silva; Horacio Silva is the deputy editor of Men's Fashions of the Times.

 BODY:
Javier Bardem can't stop sneezing. It's not a particularly cold morning, but the actor was out the previous night. Too much partying? "I'm allergic to the sun," Bardem says. "Whenever I step out into it, I start to sneeze. It sounds ridiculous, but it's the truth."
 It's hard not to believe the guy. Friendly and unguarded, Bardem -- who is best known for his portrayal of the exiled Cuban poet and novelist Reinaldo Arenas in Julian Schnabel's "Before Night Falls" -- is that rare actor who answers questions honestly, without spin. He says that working with his friend the director Pedro Almodovar was "a living nightmare -- he's very intelligent, but it's his way or no way." He offers no embarrassing confession fabricated for the InStyles of the world, but says that like most teenage boys, he had fleeting doubts about his sexuality. "I love sex with women," he says. "But if I were gay, I would have no problem saying it." His openness extends to the public. Although most passers-by ignore him as he poses on the street for the photo to accompany this article, the odd pedestrian -- curious about who is being photographed -- stops to chat. 
 Yet none of the onlookers have a clue who he is. If this were Madrid and not downtown Manhattan, it would be a different story. Bardem, 34, has made more than two dozen films in Spain, his native country. He first received recognition in the 1992 film "Jamon, Jamon," in which he played a small-town truck driver who becomes an underwear model. Bardem became known in the United States for his role in Almodovar's "Live Flesh" (1997), playing a paraplegic policeman. He has also appeared as a corpse snatcher and a Santeria con man, but it was his role in "Before Night Falls" in 2000 that generated international buzz and earned him Academy Award and Golden Globe nominations as best actor. Now, after a three-year absence from American cinemas, Bardem is back with two new movies: the critically acclaimed "Los Lunes al Sol" and "The Dancer Upstairs," John Malkovich's debut as a movie director.
A few days after the photo shoot, Bardem is at the SoHo Grand Hotel, nursing a hangover he could sell to science -- "Way too much tequila," he says -- and a thumb he dislocated sparring with a boxing partner. Judging from his appearance, he doesn't rely on the services of a personal stylist: he's wearing a pair of unironic stone-washed jeans and a rumpled rugby top. Although he enjoys the kind of celebrity in Spain normally reserved for soccer players, Bardem grew up playing rugby, making it as far as the national squad. "It's a bit like being a star bullfighter in Japan," he says, "but I guess you can say that I was pretty good at it." His battered beak suggests he was on the receiving end of some on-field blows, but the most famous nose in cinema since Karl Malden's was actually broken in a Spanish discotheque about 10 years ago. "I was in a soap opera at the time," Bardem recalls, "and I guess this guy didn't like me or my character, because he came out of nowhere and punched me in the face. I owe him one, I guess."
The boxer's schnoz only adds to his machismo. At 6-foot-3, with legs like horse haunches, the unconventionally handsome Bardem could have been weighed down with the sensitive-meathead roles that Gerard Depardieu has made a career of. But Bardem has managed to transcend his physicality, taking on roles that allow him to display his grace of movement and ability to immerse himself in the characters he plays. 
"He's a maniac," says Julian Schnabel, who cast Bardem in "Before Night Falls" when Benicio Del Toro pulled out of the project. "But like all great actors, he has this gift of becoming this other character. He dives profoundly into finding out what he needs to learn in order to become that person. People talk about the weight he lost for the role, but forget that to play Reinaldo Arenas, he had to learn English and how to speak Spanish with a Cuban accent. He did a lot of homework before saying yes to the part."
Malkovich is equally effusive. "He's the best young actor in Europe, maybe anywhere," he says. "Fortunately, I don't think he knows how good he actually is." In "The Dancer Upstairs," which is to be released April 30, Bardem plays a police officer who is on the hunt for a terrorist. Although the film is set in an unspecified Latin American country and was adapted from the Nicholas Shakespeare novel of the same name, it is loosely based on the hunt for Abimael Guzman, the leader of Peru's guerrilla group the Shining Path. In typical Bardem fashion, he is almost unrecognizable in the part and even manages the occasional dialogue in Quechua, the Indian language his character grew up speaking. Malkovich's decision to have the predominantly Hispanic cast speak mainly in English has rankled some elements of the Spanish-speaking community. 
"I can totally understand that," Bardem says. "I mean, 'Before Night Falls' worked well here, but in Spain, the critics killed it because it was in English. For the same reason that a lot of people in Mexico were angry that the Frida Kahlo movie was shot in English. They have a point, but at the same time, if you want to work on an international level, you have to work in English. It's like saying we should do 'Gladiator' in Latin, 'Doctor Zhivago' in Russian or do what Mel Gibson is doing, shooting a story about Jesus in the original Aramaic and Latin."
In April, Bardem also will appear in Fernando Leon de Aranoa's "Los Lunes al Sol" ("Mondays in the Sun"), which tells the story of men coping with chronic unemployment in a shipyard town in northwestern Spain. "It's probably the movie I am most proud of," Bardem says. "It has had such an impact in Spain, where unemployment is a big concern, especially in rural areas."
Raised in Madrid by his mother, the actress Pilar Bardem, he knows full well the vicissitudes of the entertainment industry. "It sounds corny," he says, "but I'm only ever truly free when I'm acting, which is why I am addicted to it. And I've seen what it was like for my mother and my sister, who also used to act, to go through long periods of having no work."
As the nephew of the director Juan Antonio Bardem, who was jailed during the Franco regime for his incendiary movies, Bardem is also aware of the freedom he enjoys in taking politically charged roles. "I certainly don't take it for granted," he says, "and it makes you really think about the parts you accept."
In the unlikely event that the offers run out, Bardem owns two restaurants and has shown that he's not averse to the idea of doing most anything for a buck. "I've worked as a stripper and a bouncer, so there's always work for me in the clubs," he says. He once entertained the idea of being an artist and studied at the School of Arts and Crafts in Madrid, but don't expect a group show with the actor-painters Viggo Mortensen and Sylvester Stallone. "My brother, who's a famous writer in Spain, and I joke about Stallone's painting," he says. "I read an interview where he says that when he paints a dandelion, he does not paint the flower but what the flower thinks. Maybe one day I can be that good."
The recent spate of accolades for Bardem suggests he can safely put down his paintbrushes. In February, Bardem won his third Goya -- Spain's equivalent of the Oscar -- for his starring role in "Los Lunes al Sol." At this rate, Bardem would do well to see an allergist about his aversion to sunlight: it looks as though he'll be in the glare of the spotlight for a while. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Javier Bardem's next film, "The Dancer Upstairs," was directed by John Malkovich, shown above center with Bardem on the set of the movie.; Opposite: Bardem wears a jacket, $795, from Ermenegildo Zegna, 745 Fifth Avenue, and a shirt, $190, from Etro, 720 Madison Avenue, and Bergdorf Goodman Men. (Top: photograph by Paola Ardizzoni/Fox Searchlight, 2003. opposite: Grooming by GG Hale for Artistsbytimothypriano.com. Prop styling by Bradley Garlock for Judy Casey Inc. Fashion assistant/Tailor: Keke Cheng.; Stephane Sednaoui; styled by Robert E. Bryan.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); MOVIE REVIEWS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (65%); PARALYSIS (50%); JOINT DISLOCATIONS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MOTION PICTURES; APPAREL; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

PERSON: SILVA, HORACIO; BARDEM, JAVIER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) SPAIN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: BEFORE NIGHT FALLS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



231 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: March 9, 2003 

 BODY:


	 	 		 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 		 	 	 1	4	2ND CHANCE, by James Patterson with Andrew Gross. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) The members of the Women's Murder Club search for a killer.		 	 		 	 	 2	10	THE SUMMONS, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) A law professor who has been called home to Mississippi by his father, a dying judge, discovers more than $3 million in cash in the old man's study.		 	 		 	 	 3	3	THE COTTAGE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) An aging, virtually penniless Hollywood star experiences excitement and even happiness after he rents out part of his house.		 	 		 	 	 4	3	FULL TILT, by Janet Evanovich and Charlotte Hughes. (St. Martin's, $7.99.) A romantic adventure featuring a small-town newspaperwoman and a mysterious man.		 	 		 	 	 5	16	THE HOURS, by Michael Cunningham. (Picador USA, $13.) The lives of two modern American women, coping with demands of family and friends, converge with the life and work of Virginia Woolf.		 	 		 	 	 6	5	SEA GLASS, by Anita Shreve. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) In Depression-era New England, a newly married couple move into a dilapidated house on the beach.		 	 		 	 	 7	5	MRS. DALLOWAY, by Virginia Woolf. (Harvest/ Harcourt, $12.) The classic 1925 novel about a day in the life of Clarissa Dalloway.		 	 		 	 	 8	4	 *THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Penguin, $14.) In South Carolina in 1964, a teenage girl tries to discover the secret to her mother's past.		 	 		 	 	 9	4	THE STONE MONKEY, by Jeffery Deaver. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A quadriplegic forensics genius tries to capture a homicidal smuggler of human beings.		 	 		 	 	 10	8	TRULY MADLY MANHATTAN, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.50.) Two novels ("Local Hero" and "Dual Image") about love in New York.		 	 		 	 	 11	3	THE REMNANT, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $14.99.) The 10th volume of the "Left Behind" series, in which the forces of good battle the forces of evil after the rapture of the saved. (+)		 	 		 	 	 12	3	THE NO. 1 LADIES' DETECTIVE AGENCY, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Anchor, $11.95.) In Botswana, a woman looks for an 11-year-old boy who may have been kidnapped by witch doctor.		 	 		 	 	 13	4	THE SHORT FOREVER, by Stuart Woods. (Signet, $7.99.) In London, the lawyer and investigator Stone Barrington must deal with former lovers and murder.		 	 		 	 	 14	16	BEL CANTO, by Ann Patchett. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $13.95.) South American rebels storm a vice-presidential mansion during a lyric soprano's recital.		 	 		 	 	 15	8	EVERYTHING'S EVENTUAL, by Stephen King. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A collection of 14 "dark tales" about the strange and the supernatural.		 	 		 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 		 	 	 1	3	THE SWEET POTATO QUEENS' BIG-ASS COOKBOOK (and FINANCIAL PLANNER), by Jill Conner Browne. (Three Rivers, $13.95.) Comic tales from the South, along with some pertinent recipes.		 	 		 	 	 2	48	SEABISCUIT, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Ballantine, $15.) A biography of the horse whose career culminated in a 1938 match race with War Admiral.		 	 		 	 	 3	5	BIAS, by Bernard Goldberg. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $13.95.) A television journalist who worked at CBS for many years reports on "how the media distort the news." (+)		 	 		 	 	 4	9	CATCH ME IF YOU CAN, by Frank W. Abagnale with Stan Redding. (Broadway, $14.95.) A memoir of life on the lam by a former con man, impostor and escape artist.		 	 		 	 	 5	23	LUCKY, by Alice Sebold. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $11.95.) A memoir by the author of "The Lovely Bones" in which she recounts being raped as an 18-year-old college freshman.		 	 		 	 	 6	8	LAST DANCE, LAST CHANCE, by Ann Rule. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A new collection of true-crime stories.		 	 		 	 	 7	57	FAST FOOD NATION, by Eric Schlosser. (Peren-nial/HarperCollins, $13.95.) A survey of "the dark side of the all-American meal."		 	 		 	 	 8	242	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 		 	 	 9	3	SHADOW WARRIORS, by Tom Clancy with Carl Stiner and Tony Koltz. (Berkley, $16.) An inside look at the United States' special-operations forces.		 	 		 	 	 10	9	FINDING FISH, by Antwone Quenton Fisher with Mim Eichler Rivas. (Perennial, $13.95; HarperTorch, $7.50.) From life in foster homes to experiences in the Navy to success in Hollywood: a memoir.		 	 		 	 	 11	20	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $11.95.) The author tells of his visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door. (+)		 	 		 	 	 12	9	THE GANGS OF NEW YORK, by Herbert Asbury. (Thunder's Mouth, $14.95.) "An informal history of the underworld," first published in 1928.		 	 		 	 	 13	2	 *SACRED CONTRACTS, by Caroline Myss. (Three Rivers, $15.) Reflections on "spiritual energies" and the meaning of life by the author of "Anatomy of the Spirit." (+)		 	 		 	 	 14	2	 *THE PIANIST,by Wladyslaw Szpilman. (Picador, $13.) A first-person account of survival in the Warsaw ghetto, covering the years 1939-45.		 	 		 	 	 15	2	SALT, by Mark Kurlansky. (Penguin, $15.) The economic, political, chemical and industrial story behind a valuable substance.		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 		 	 	 1	5	ATKINS FOR LIFE, by Robert C. Atkins. (St. Mar-tin's, $24.95.) A physician's program for finding one's ideal weight and maintaining it. (+)		 	 		 	 	 2	6	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) Finding the meaning of life through God. (+)		 	 		 	 	 3	13	THE POWER OF NOW, by Eckhart Tolle. (New World Library, $22.95.) A guide to personal growth and spiritual enlightenment. (+)		 	 		 	 	 4	149	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $26.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 		 	 	 5	1	CONTACTING YOUR SPIRIT GUIDE, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $17.95.) Advice about "the Other Side" and its "very advanced entities."		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 		 	 	 1	300	Dr. Atkins' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Quill, $13.95; Avon, $7.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 		 	 	 2	4	THE HARD QUESTIONS, by Susan Piver. (Tarcher/ Putnam, $10.) One hundred questions for couples to ask themselves.		 	 		 	 	 3	120	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. (+)		 	 		 	 	 4	134	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 		 	 	 5	103	THE FOUR AGREEMENTS, by Don Miguel Ruiz. (Amber-Allen, $12.95.) A code of conduct based on personal freedom. (+)	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 22, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); FORENSICS (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); BEACHES (67%); MARRIAGE (67%); WITCHCRAFT (60%); PARALYSIS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS 

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); BOTSWANA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003



232 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Put On a Poker Face 

BYLINE:  By Caleb Crain; Caleb Crain is a fellow at the New York Public Library's Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center for Scholars and Writers.

 BODY:
 SOMETHING
FOR NOTHING
Luck in America.
By Jackson Lears.
Illustrated. 392 pp. New York:
Viking. $27.95.
 I HAVE never seen the point of gambling. I know it's Puritan of me. I know that there is an element of gambling in the playfulness that creates art, the experiments that advance science, the vulnerability that spices love and the hazards that accompany all commercial enterprise. And that's more or less why I have no interest. Why take a risk when it serves no end but the systematic fleecing of the gullible by organized crime and unscrupulous politicians? If you feel guilty about money, gambling is a clever way to unburden yourself: it enables you to give your money to strangers who deserve it even less than you do, without earning any moral credit for the gift. If you want an adrenaline rush without physical danger, rent "Alien." 
According to the map of the world drawn by the Rutgers historian Jackson Lears in "Something forNothing," a cultural history of gambling and the ideology of luck in the United States, my wet blanketism places me squarely in the "culture of control." My neighbors here include Increase Mather, Adam Smith, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Anthony Comstock, Jane Addams, Thorstein Veblen, Frederick Winslow Taylor, Henry Ford, John D. Rockefeller, Chinese Communists, German and Italian fascists and Robert Kennedy. All of us "dismiss chance as a demon . . . or a difficulty," and as aficionados of control we are susceptible to such labor-intensive Protestant-flavored dogmas as "the faith that we can master chance through force of will, and that rewards will match merits in this world as well as the next." We're a dour, smug lot.
On the other side of the river, over in the "culture of chance," live Doc Holliday, Charles Darwin, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Frank Norris, Damon Runyon, Jack Kerouac, Roman Catholics, Gypsies, Southern slaveholders, African-Americans, John Cage, Joseph Cornell, William S. Burroughs, Donald Barthelme's brothers and a number of late-19th-century hoods who left memoirs. 
What happens over there is a little mysterious. We are told by Lears that members of the culture of chance "have their own rituals, beliefs, even gods," that they treat chance "as a source of knowledge and a portal of possibility" and that they "encourage reverence for grace, luck and fortune." We are also told that their culture "offers the ever-present possibility of springing the trap that keeps us shackled to routine -- escaping from the narrow confines of alleged necessity (law, custom, circumstance, fate)" and that through gambling they have sometimes found "insight . . . into a hidden order of things in which rich and poor alike were subject to the whims of fortune." 
This is the sort of grasshopper talk that we ants in the culture of control have little patience with. Not for nothing does P. T. Barnum live with us, separate from his customers. (In Lears's book, he shares a modest paragraph with the Congregationalist minister Henry Ward Beecher, in which both men deny the existence of luck.) For that matter, as far as public policy goes, Lears himself is too enlightened to endorse it. "I do not mean to dignify compulsive gambling or to deny its damaging effects," he writes. "Lotteries are not in my view a fair way to raise public revenue, nor are casinos a good solution to the economic redevelopment of depressed areas." 
In other words, as is proper for an academic, Lears is concerned not with gambling but with the discourse of gambling, and in the realm of discourse he fears that the culture of control has dominated. He aims "to redress the rhetorical balance by resurrecting the culture of chance, taking it seriously but not uncritically, reasserting the claims of luck against the hubris of human will." Observe the redress already under way in the casual identification of human will with hubris. Would that the culture of control were as dominant in reality as it is in discourse. Last time I checked, state governments had abdicated moral authority on the topic, sponsoring lotteries and purchasing the silence of the intellectual class by earmarking a sliver of the take for art, culture and education. 
Whether or not gambling is in need of it, Lears has written an apologia. His case relies heavily on a parallel between games of chance and the conjuring found in polytheistic religions and in the folk practices of monotheistic religions. For example, in West Africa, the Ibos threw cowrie shells to tell the future; later, as slaves in America, their descendants used the same shells when gambling. "We might plausibly conclude that more was at stake than mere money," Lears writes. He believes that gambling trails clouds of "ethical and even religious significance," which gamblers themselves rarely understand, like great-great-grandchildren of Marranos mystified by the Jewishness of their family's holiday rituals. Lears proposes to explain gambling's hidden meanings, and his resources in this task consist of many anecdotes, a few confusions and a lack of sympathy for the culture of control. 
Lears does raise the question "When play becomes compulsive, is it still play?" But he doesn't answer it, and often he praises gambling as play despite its mechanical, repetitive character. He also praises gamblers for their stoic attitude to "the precariousness of wealth, the impermanence of life and the arbitrariness of money as a measure of worth." But a person may believe that accident rules the world without feeling any wish to gamble: one does not necessarily want to worship the prince of this world just because one admits that it's his. 
The most important confusion, however, is in Lears's definition of his subject. Is his book concerned with gambling or with what Americans have made of gambling? Sometimes he praises the former for the virtues of the latter, which is like admiring cigarettes because the Marlboro Man was such an adroit advertising campaign. And he takes advantage of the wiggle room in the word "luck" to chronicle everything from superstitions (like the colonial notion that coral beads could protect children from illness and the African-American belief in magic roots, which in a moment of desperation even Frederick Douglass was willing to try) to chance in the art of the Surrealists, Dadaists, Abstract Expressionists and the Beats. His topic becomes unwieldy, and his writing sloppy. 
A rather large foot has to be shoehorned into a rather small shoe in order for Lears to argue that after the Union victory over the Confederacy in the Civil War, "providentialist rhetoric transformed the war into a successful confidence game by reinforcing white Americans' confidence in the divinity of their nation's destiny." Three times in a dozen pages he suggests that avant-garde artists of the early 20th century were out to shock the bourgeoisie. And he explains Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle twice -- just as well, because the first time he explains it wrong. (Math is not Lears's forte. He is willing to believe that "numbers gambling could constitute a rational investment" for Depression-era African-Americans on these grounds: "If a numbers gambler bet a dollar 1,300 times over 10 years, he or she could confidently expect to hit a $550 payoff at least once, not to mention smaller wins that would offset the initial investment." Lears credits this counterintuitive analysis to "the academically sanctioned numerology of econometrics," and he acknowledges that it could hold true only for people who are wary of banks, but he might also have mentioned that even for them the strategy would significantly underperform most mattresses.)
MANY of Lears's rogues are charming, and I enjoyed learning that board games were introduced to keep young potential gamblers entertained at home, that America added bluffing to the game of poker and that the 1950's existential theologian Paul Tillich wrestled in private with a wild and guilt-plagued sex life. 
But I wish that Lears were as generous in spirit with gambling's opponents as he is with gamblers. He presents Victorian social critics as if they were robots programmed by the discourse of capitalism. The minister and second-generation Transcendentalist O. B. Frothingham is accused of a "deification of money" that is "flagrant," and the journalist John Bigelow of "a studied indifference to . . . increasingly violent class conflict." These critics may have been paternalists, guilty of failing to outthink the bourgeois ideology of their era, but they were also trying to fight something that caused people harm. They took the culture of chance at least as seriously as Lears does.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christopher Serra) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); RELIGION (69%); LITERATURE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (54%); ADAM SMITH (54%) CRAIN, CALEB; LEARS, JACKSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

TITLE: SOMETHING FOR NOTHING: LUCK IN AMERICA (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



233 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Theme Parks of the Mind 

BYLINE:  By Laura Miller; Laura Miller is a senior writer at Salon.

 BODY:
 THE KING IN THE TREE
Three Novellas.
By Steven Millhauser.
242 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $23.
 Like mathematicians, good fiction writers spend their professional lives off in a corner, gnawing away at some problem, perhaps even growling a bit in the manner of suspicious dogs. But unlike Fermat's last theorem, the puzzles writers pick to work on can't be solved. People will tell you that Steven Millhauser's writing celebrates the imagination, but if that were all it did, it would be pretty dull -- and occasionally it's been just that. His fiction is preoccupied with the things we do or make to escape ourselves and our colorless lives. His characters flock to sideshows and arcades, build miraculously convincing automatons and dioramas and dream themselves into the plastic worlds of cartoon characters; reality is never enough for them. All these man-made wonders can have a precious, miniaturized quality, like a scene glimpsed through the hole in a sugar Easter egg. Fortunately, Millhauser knows that the imagination can be as terrible as it is exhilarating, that it can sap a life of vitality as easily as it can fuel it. This writer is in love with a large, very beautiful and not especially tame tiger, and at its best the fiction he produces is an exquisite negotiation with the beast. 
The first problem with the imagination is that it's boundless and disorderly, and so no sooner does Millhauser conjure up cascades of phantasmagorical visions than he concocts ways to sort and contain them. He loves catalogs, carnival booths, hotels, museums, stages, cupboards; in each compartment he stashes a marvel, like the visual artist Joseph Cornell building his jewel-box assemblages. The hero of Millhauser's Pulitzer Prize-winning 1996 novel, "Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer," caps off his rags-to-riches career with the construction of the Grand Cosmo Hotel, in which guests may wander among dozens of artificial environments, including a Moorish bazaar, a model of the solar system, a "Temple of Poesy," rustic caves and villages, etc. "The King in the Tree," a new collection of three Millhauser novellas, includes a story set on an 18th-century British estate named Swan Park, whose owner is busily dividing it up into areas representing the Anglo-Saxon past (complete with a brooding King Alfred); "the land of Arcadia, where real shepherds and shepherdesses dressed in authentic Greek costumes tended flocks of sheep"; and a vast underground complex portraying the classical notion of the afterlife, both Tartarus and Elysium. 
Millhauser's Swan Park is an exaggeration of British landscape architecture of the era, with its picturesque hired hermits and ersatz ruins; when that inclination runs amok the result is theme parks and the sensation of stunned and aimless wandering that besets visitors to those attractions. Whatever the Pulitzer committee may say, "Martin Dressler" is one of the author's weaker works; the shorter forms are better vessels for Millhauser's gifts. The economy they impose keeps him from drifting off along the countless byways of fantasy and focuses his attention on his most fruitful theme: the perils of unfettered imagination or, more precisely, the ferocious desires it can ignite. 
Millhauser is often compared to Borges and Calvino, fellow fabulists, it's true, but much more cerebral. To judge by his recent books, a closer literary sibling would be Angela Carter, the British writer who also did her best work in shorter forms, picking up pieces of myth and fairy tale and prying them open to expose both the pearls and the squirmy, primal stuff within. Like Carter, Millhauser can get drunk on words, but as he's honed his voice he's shed much of the excess. And, also like Carter, he's used his lush prose and archetypal motifs to trace the outer arcs of passion, places where eros and violence meet. Both of these writers -- Carter the 60's-era libertine and Millhauser the retiring college professor -- see that the farthest reaches of the imagination belong to the utterly ruthless, to the likes of Sade. And even if you don't go quite that far, things can get scary. As the old maps say: Here be monsters. 
"Revenge," the first novella in this collection, is a gothic masterpiece, a monologue in the Browning style, each section set in a different room of a house as the narrator shows it to a prospective buyer. The narrator is a widow, the survivor of a cozy 22-year marriage, her conversation a shade too intimate and confiding. Through the living room, the downstairs bath and the kitchen she leads her guest, proferring tea and eking out the story of her fall from paradise, which began when her husband confessed to an affair. With this sort of stagey, first-person voice, you anticipate a plot twist or two, can guess what's coming and then, far too soon, the widow announces: "He told me things. I said nothing. He told me her name. That's when I learned it was you."
With the most obvious trick out of the way, what's next? How did the husband die? What are the widow's intentions? She veers between motherly clucking and a barbed but meticulously controlled rage. The sheer creativity of her bitterness, from the lurid images she invokes of her husband and his mistress in bed to a scorching burlesque of resignation ("I saw myself tucking the two of you in at night, sitting on the side of the bed -- oh, the adorable little rascals! -- telling a bedtime story. . . . I could serve you meals. I could bathe you. Gosh, I could do your nails: red hot, or a nice minty green, or black as witches") is vertiginous. Surely her vengeance, when it comes, will be a work of art. 
Romantic triangles, illicit love and jealousy -- an affliction that arises out of the imagination, after all -- are recurring elements in these three novellas. In "An Adventure of Don Juan," the Spanish rake flees the cloying decadence of Venice for the Somersetshire home of Augustus Hood, one of those indefatigable polymaths the Enlightenment produced in great numbers. In the apparently wholesome environment of Swan Park, he soon ceases to feel that "every drop of his bright blood was being replaced by thick, dark smoke." His host is a charmingly unaffected enthusiast, bustling from one interesting project to the next, and while the Don fully intends to seduce both Hood's pretty wife and her bluestocking sister, he sees no need for haste. He is, however, in well over his canny head. The countryside itself telegraphs a warning: "It was all very well to turn away from artifice in the direction of the natural and wild, but those wild prospects, those tumbling cascades and rugged grottoes, were all the work of ingenious artificers."
The title novella in the collection takes place in the court of the legendary king of Cornwall, husband to Ysolt and uncle to Tristan, whose doomed adulterous love is a foundation story in the courtly tradition. In his diary, Thomas, a counselor to the king, tells the tale, one that freshman English majors learn is a fundamental collision between the individual and society, between the wayward lovers and the order they defy. This time, society gets to speak its piece, for Tristan and Ysolt not only destroy their own lives, but deeply wound many others as well. First among them is the king, who is torn between the two people he loves best and lacerated by jealousy. 
Thomas, in turn, reveres the king and feels acutely his sovereign's suffering and humiliation; his loyalty would appear to be unquestionable. But, like the central characters in all three of these novellas, he takes long walks at night, spurred by a vague restlessness. The widow in "Revenge" seeks out the home of her rival, standing over the sleeping woman's bed with a kitchen knife. Don Juan roams the woods of Swan Park, following mysterious figures and stumbling down secret passageways into replicas of his own past. Thomas claims to want nothing more than a place where "one can possess one's soul in peace" and to "tire myself for sleep," but in the shadows he spies Tristan and Ysolt, walking hand in hand. The scene is suspicious, yet he is the one who feels abashed, even moved. "I was witnessing something that was of the night -- an emanation of the night, as surely as the moonlight dropping softly on the leaves and branches. It was something old, older than marriage, older than kingship, something that belonged to night itself."
He doesn't tell the king, a choice he considers "an act of treason against the crown." And although the result is "a plague of love that causes nothing but ruin and despair" and degrades everyone caught up in it, he can't help himself any more than Tristan and Ysolt can. Even this most contented and judicious of men feels a corresponding, nihilistic stirring, a vision of something more that will shatter what is. The lovers' transgression calls to that yearning part of him that makes him walk in the dark, dreaming of wonders and finding, as often as not, nightmares instead. 

GRAPHIC: Ann Field Drawing (Rob Shepperson)Ann Field 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (86%); MATHEMATICS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EASTER SEASON (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MILLER, LAURA; MILLHAUSER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: KING IN THE TREE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



234 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Sociology Is Destiny 

BYLINE:  By Michael Newman; Michael Newman is a staff editor for The Times's Op-Ed page.

 BODY:
 RESPECT IN A WORLD
OF INEQUALITY
By Richard Sennett.
288 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95.
 IN his previous books Richard Sennett has proved an adept interrogator. Bakers, software programmers, business consultants, bartenders turned advertising executives, janitors, gay bankers: all of them have yielded to Sennett's respectful yet relentless questioning about their work and its meaning. In "Respect in a World of Inequality," his ninth book of social criticism (he has also written three novels), he turns his attention to a new subject: himself. 
The result is always well intentioned but often frustrating and sometimes awkward. Sennett, who teaches sociology at New York University and the London School of Economics, is a reluctant memoirist; the details of his own life and career interest him only insofar as they have influenced his views on issues like welfare reform and social inequality. But while good scholarship requires emotional detachment, the same is disastrous in a memoir. This book is a sociological study as well, but the chapters that deal with policy issues are vague and surprisingly modest. It's almost as if Sennett were hoping two half-finished books constitute a whole. 
In bare outline, the details of Sennett's life make for a great story. In 1946, when he was 3 years old, he and his mother -- his father left shortly after Sennett was born -- moved to Cabrini Green, the now notorious housing project in Chicago. (Back then, as he quotes one former resident, the project was "just clean cheap housing that families were glad to have until they could do better.") Four years later they moved out, though Sennett does not say where they went, and he began to train in earnest to be a classical musician. He studied under a cellist in the Chicago Symphony and went to New York for further instruction. "Music was to be my career," he writes. 
In 1962, however, he noticed his left hand weakening, its tendons strained, and surgery to repair it was botched. Sennett's career hopes were dashed. After a bout of self-pity, "I started to put myself right and consider what to do." He found solace in sociology, in particular with the Harvard professor David Riesman, the primary author of "The Lonely Crowd," under whom he learned how to conduct an interview -- acalling as demanding as playing the cello. "In-depth interviewing is a distinctive, often frustrating craft," he writes. "To probe, the interviewer cannot be stonily impersonal; he or she has to give something of himself or herself in order to merit an open response. . . . The craft consists in calibrating social distances without making the subject feel like an insect under the microscope." 
Which brings us to that gay banker. As part of a project for Riesman, Sennett spent some time in the mid-1960's interviewing Boston Brahmins about their "identity." "I know just what you mean by 'identity,' " the banker says, and launches into a lengthy monologue about genealogy. This was not what Sennett was looking for, but a second interview was more revealing: "I discovered, when he propositioned me, that he was gay." 
How Sennett feels about this he does not say, although he goes on to note that the banker was a kind man. Nor does he dwell on what this exchange might teach us about respect. The first omission is a failure of his memoir, the second a failure of his argument. 
Sennett's argument, basically, is that modern society suffers as much from civil inequality as from economic inequality. It "lacks positive expressions of respect and recognition for others," he writes. This is a quandary he is at something of a loss to solve. "Treating people with respect cannot occur simply by commanding it should happen," he concludes. "Mutual recognition has to be negotiated." For example, people on welfare are told they must gain self-respect as well as self-reliance, yet the welfare system offers them precious few opportunities. 
Sennett explains the point with a memory, one of the few times when the connection between his experience and his argument is made explicit. In Cabrini Green, he used to engage in what he calls "glass wars": from the project's abandoned buildings, children would sling panes of glass across the street at one another. Anytime they hit someone, they would score a point. Eventually, of course, someone gets hurt. She goes to the hospital, which calls the police, who call the school, which calls social workers, who involve the parents. What interests Sennett is not the game's violence or even its racial overtones -- white kids and black kids were always on opposite sides -- but the differing reactions to it. White parents, he writes, "were angry at the authorities for interfering; the black parents were more angry at their own children for attracting the attention of the authorities." 
The implications of this difference are left largely unexamined. But Sennett does use the glass wars as an illustration of larger subjects: the Lockean fear of the "denial of the opportunity to act like an adult"; the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson's conception of shame; the "regime of surveillance" common even in early housing projects like the Peabody Estates of Britain. 
AS these references suggest, Sennett does not wear his learning lightly; not only are Rousseau and Kant and Freud here, but so are W. H. Auden and Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Andy Grove, rolling by like movie credits. At the same time, his intelligence can be dazzling. In what is easily the book's best section, called "The Nun and the Socialist," he compares Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House, and Mother Cabrini, the founder of scores of schools and orphanages in Chicago and elsewhere. Addams believed the way to help the poor was to provide them with resources and stand aside; Cabrini thought their lives would improve only through steady (and often paternalistic) involvement. "Addams's coolness seemed to Mother Cabrini simply a kind of middle-class arrogance," Sennett writes. Meanwhile, "the Catholic elements of compassion -- pity, humility and sin -- seemed to Jane Addams nearly obscene." 
These are the same two impulses at war in this book. It is the problem of all social scientists -- how to marry reserve and compassion, to treat subjects both as people and as research. Sennett does not offer any real answers, and maybe there aren't any. But his book would have been more moving and persuasive if he had treated his experience with a little less respect, and his argument with a little more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SOCIOLOGY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); FAMILY (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC (67%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: NEWMAN, MICHAEL; SENNETT, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

TITLE: RESPECT IN A WORLD OF INEQUALITY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



235 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Under One Roof 

BYLINE:  By Roxana Robinson; Roxana Robinson's new novel, "Sweetwater," will be published in May.

 BODY:
 THE HILLS AT HOME
By Nancy Clark.
481 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $25.
 In my grandmother's generation, families were tribes. Parents had lots of children, and those children knew their aunts and grandparents and cousins. Family traits were common knowledge. My grandmother used to tell us, of her family, "All the Trumbulls have short legs," adding, modestly, "short, but shapely." This sort of tribal identification occurs only when the family is big, providing plentiful examples of such traits, and only when the examples themselves are around to be recognized. The tribe exists only when it's together. 
Nowadays, the American family is shrinking and dispersing. Fewer children, divorce, geographical mobility, the imperial aloofness of the adolescent, the irresistible temptation of electronics -- all conspire toward diminution, fragmentation and the loss of tribal identity. No one grows up where his grandparents live, and no one who knows you knows your cousins too. In fact, your tribe has vanished. Our novels now are all about alienation and isolation -- we're in the Age of the Loner. 
All of which makes Nancy Clark's fine first novel, "The Hills at Home," so welcome and refreshing. According to this graceful, intelligent and very funny chronicle of a large extended family beneath one capacious roof, the tribe is back.
The Hills are an old New England family that returns to the homestead, somewhere north of Boston, in a once rural community being overtaken by suburbs. The house is now owned by Lily, a self-reliant maiden aunt and retired teacher, who watches with bemusement the arrival of her relatives. These are: Lily's irascible brother,Harvey, newly widowed; her self-absorbed niece, Ginger, newly separated, with her teenage daughter, Betsy; Lily's hapless nephew, Alden, newly unemployed, with his good-natured wife, Becky, and four children; and a great-nephew, Arthur, a struggling comedian, with his girl-friend. There are also houseguests: an old flame of Becky's, an unwanted flame of Betsy's, an unfortunate flame of Ginger's, and Andy, a young sociologist, studying the Hills for his thesis. 
Once ensconced, the Hills share meals, territory and belongings with uneasy familiarity. They mill about the property and the community, trying out jobs, schools and plans. Harvey fulminates against his real estate agent, Alden searches for gainful employment, Ginger executes marital maneuvers and the children carry out strenuous social strategies.
Lily's beguiling sensibility -- modest, observant, tolerant -- provides a quiet backdrop for the more strident voices of her invading kin. Her retiring manner, however, masks firm opinions, and she runs the house according to venerable WASP traditions. "Use it up, wear it out; make it do or do without" is one of these, and Lily's precisely observed housekeeping is one of the delights of the book, which is as much about home as it is about the Hills. The 200-year-old clapboard building, handsome, rambling and gently decrepit, is a central presence. The author clearly knows and loves old houses, and anyone who has ever lived in one will recognize with delight what she so felicitously describes: the ingenuity, respect and philosophy required for this sort of habitat. 
Lily's brother, Harvey, the first to arrive, complains at once: 
" 'Lily, you've let the place go shockingly.' . . . The crystal knob of his closet door spun off in his hand as he wrenched it open to check whether Lily had supplied him with the wooden clothes hangers he knew Lily knew he required. . . . Harvey scraped bureau drawers open and shut. He removed a wizened pomander from the bottom drawer, an apple stuck and studded with cloves and looped with red ribbon. . . . Uttering oaths, he reached deeper and extracted a dozen or more shrunken and rather evilly dead-appearing objects, no, not heads as first he feared but only Seckel pears. Lily had left them in the drawer last fall to ripen undisturbed in the dark and she'd forgotten them, at least until she remembered last February and couldn't face what she knew she'd find. The pomander had masked the sequence of odors emanating from the tall old chest of drawers, such a fortunate set of circumstances, Lily had thought at the time."
Family possessions are cherished: the pretty Coalport plates (some missing), a lovely Chinese porcelain bowl, worn Persian rugs, the battered deacon's bench in the front hall. These cause salivation among local antique dealers, but it wouldn't occur to the Hills (who aren't rich) to sell. Nor would they consider selling the huge old house, or renovating, though it's a miracle of inconvenience, with unlatchable doors, unreliable plumbing, drafty rooms, leaky roofs, insufficient heating and never enough hot water.
As to food, the Hill menus might form the basis of a seminal work on the (unaccountably) barely explored topic of WASP cuisine: Lily "pepped up the first-night supper menus with piccalilli and cottage cheese spread on Ritz crackers . . . a lavishing of hospitality, really." Supper itself might be tuna wiggle, or fish sticks and corn. English muffins, melted cheddar cheese and Campbell's soup figure prominently.
The family itself is deftly described through the patchwork, haphazard encounters that make up domestic life. Here, for example, are the Hills gathering to watch television after supper:
"Harvey dealt the fire a last sparky jab with the iron poker and he pointed a sooty finger at Rollins, who knew better than to sit in Harvey's reclining lounger. . . . Ginger had to step over the two great outstretched boys. She dragged a Hudson Bay blanket behind her, trailing like downcrest plumage and . . . mistakenly trod upon the back of Brooks's knee, suffering as she did so the nasty sensation of having a large, strenuous lizard writhing underfoot. Ginger yelped. Brooks hollered. Becky told him: 'Hush. No one is interested.' . . .
" 'Oh, are we all watching "M*A*S*H"?' Ginger asked. She meant she did not wish to watch 'M*A*S*H.' 'Lily! . . . Do you want to watch "M*A*S*H"?'
"Lily was making her way across the lolling boys . . . over whom she stepped with exaggerated care, nevertheless, her shoe came down upon Brooks's hand. He hollered. Becky said: 'I've told you and I've told you to hush.'
" 'Ought to rise for your old Aunt,' Harvey said, straightening his recliner and lowering the foot rest to allow Lily clear passage."
Andy, the young sociologist, struggles to codify the family behavior. He explains that he "meant to trace the straight and steady lines . . . of the lives of utterly ordinary people who came home from world wars without a scratch on them to marry the daughters of bankers and enjoy long, fruitful unions and peaceful deaths at an advanced old age."
"That wasn't one of us," Harvey says. "Sounds like a Bartlett. Think you may want to see the Bartletts. Tell you how to find their place."
But Andy goes on: "It is very seldom that anyone has ventured from the Grove of Academe into the surrounding suburbs. . . . This could well prove to be as important as Margaret Mead's field work in Samoa." Meanwhile we learn that Lily "had never cared for Dr. Mead. In her opinion, a lady, even a lady enarmored in scholarship, ought at times to have averted her eyes."
The Hills have opinions about everything. They're absolutely certain about words, definitions, dates and being right. They correct one another constantly and argue readily. Before an approaching wedding, Ginger, planning the table linen, decides against napkins folded in the shape of swans: "I can just picture the family mistaking the swans for ducks and then the reception will degenerate into an ornithological discussion. They'll drag out the Roger Tory Peterson and poor Betsy will be ceremoniously cutting the cake and they'll all be bent over the waterfowl chapter."
The novel itself, of course, is the complex and extraordinarily knowledgeable study of the Hills that earnest Andy can never write, despite his interviews and index cards. Is it without flaws? Well, the plot is mild and ambling, and the darker emotions are kept strictly offstage, but plot and angst are not the point. The point is the revelation of a particular kind of life, and at that the book succeeds brilliantly. 
It reminds us that the tribe has not vanished, and that we're all members of it -- we're all part of a genealogical staircase descending endlessly into the future. And Nancy Clark shows us, with grace and humor, that any tribe can be enthralling when revealed, in all its eccentricities and specificities, by such an informed, appreciative and affectionate observer. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Abbrederis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); LITERATURE (73%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ROBINSON, ROXANA; CLARK, NANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: HILLS AT HOME, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



236 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Bad-Air Days 

BYLINE:  By Michael Tomasky; Michael Tomasky, the political columnist for New York magazine, is currently a visiting fellow at the Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.

 BODY:
 COAL
A Human History.
By Barbara Freese.
Illustrated. 308 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Perseus Publishing. $25.
 WHEN I was a boy growing up in West Virginia, I would lie in bed at night listening to a small AM radio, eager to hear "Joy to the World" (the Three Dog Night song, not the carol -- hey, I was 10) or straining to stay awake for Roberto Clemente's next at-bat in the Pirates game. In the course of these pursuits, I also became familiar with a ritual announcement that hit the air every night around 10 o'clock, and that I can still repeat verbatim. "The following operations of Consolidation Coal will work the midnight shift: the Arkwright Mine, the Osage Mine, the Humphrey Mine, the Pursglove Mine. . . ."
Be assured that no other trade enjoyed the benefit of having its work shifts announced on the local airwaves. But that's how omnipresent "king coal," as the mineral is sometimes called, was. My family didn't count on it for a living directly, but everyone did indirectly: during a long wintertime miners' strike in the 1970's, the schools (along with many businesses) actually closed for a while because they ran out of coal to fire the furnaces. Coal determined the pace of life, the health of the economy and the intensity of politics. When the United Mine Workers' reform presidential candidate, Jock Yablonski, was savagely executed -- with his wife and daughter -- on New Year's Eve in 1969 by thugs hired by the corrupt union president, Tony Boyle, the event registered in our household on the same scale as the assassinations of Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. Such responses were not options in a place where coal was sovereign; they were facts of life.
As Barbara Freese makes abundantly clear in her engrossing and sometimes stunning "Coal: A Human History," man's relationship to coal has ever been thus. Coal is not merely a big employer, like Wal-Mart or Costco, only grimier; wherever it has been discovered and mined, it has become that place's metaphor and stipulated its destiny. And its power has not been merely regional. "The industrial age," Freese writes, "emerged literally in a haze of coal smoke, and in that smoke we can read much of the history of the modern world."
Overstatement? It's impossible to think so after reading this strongly argued and thoroughly researched book. London became the modern world's first great metropolis because of coal: Britons agreed by the late 1500's that coal heated homes and workplaces much better than wood, which London was fast running out of anyway. And coal's plenitude in Britain produced the wealth -- and the reliable warmth that cold-weather societies had not theretofore known -- that made the building of a muscular city possible. Shipbuilding technology advanced rapidly because of coal, since moving it from Newcastle and Wales to London was most easily accomplished on the seas and rivers. (Roads, then, were a nightmare. Freese offers an illuminating and spirited disquisition, of which there are so many in this lively book, on the problem of mud in 18th-century society; the ruts in the road from London to Birmingham, carved by thousands of wagon wheels over many years, were 12 to 14 feet deep in places.) Canals were built chiefly to move coal. Ditto railroads -- the world's first fully locomotive-driven public one, running between Liverpool and Manchester, was constructed more with a bituminous cargo in mind than a human one. James Watt's steam engine -- the Industrial Revolution's beating heart -- was invented chiefly "to solve the novel problems posed by having to delve ever deeper into the earth for what had become a life-sustaining daily necessity."
Freese wants readers to be clear about just how vital coal has been to our era of human development because she hopes to persuade us that it's time to enter a new one. As an assistant attorney general of Minnesota for more than a dozen years, shewas charged with enforcing that state's stringent environmental laws. When the state began a legal proceeding to try to quantify the effect of Minnesotans' electricity use (most of which is coal-powered) on global warming, the hearings touched an "exquisitely sensitive" nerve, she writes. Her curiosity was piqued about why, and "Coal" is the wide-ranging result of that curiosity having been satisfied.
Given this polemical aim, "Coal," while it fairly acknowledges what the substance has done for people, devotes its more swashbuckling passages to describing what it has done to them. Pollution was obvious from the start -- the first commissions set up in London to study coal's impact on air quality date to 1285 (indeed, coal use was banned in England for some 200 years, from the 1300's to the 1500's, until the wood shortage became so acute that the ban was lifted). Freese's descriptions, from firsthand sources, of the black, befouled air of London and Pittsburgh -- which turned white clothing a saturated gray in a few hours' time, could limit visibility to a few yards and surely caused uncountable deaths -- are ghastly; Anthony Trollope, visiting Pittsburgh as a Londoner who couldn't have scared easily on the subject of air quality, paid sarcastic tribute to "the filth and wondrous blackness of the place." And, of course, there's the rather large matter of social class -- as surely as coal created wealth, it created its opposite. As the Industrial Revolution took hold, miners, including many children, worked in unspeakable conditions and were "commonly referred to as a separate race of humans."
Surely these horrors are things of the past, right? Freese agrees that many of them are. But one thing isn't -- carbon and sulfur are still carbon and sulfur and, when spit into the air out of a smokestack, they're still bad for you, and bad for the planet. Increasing scientific agreement on these facts, Freese suggests, has the potential to create a noose around the coal industry's neck that should, some inevitable day, render coal burning a thing of the past. But to coal operators, that day is anything but inevitable; hence their ardent opposition to the Kyoto Protocols -- the international pact on global warming -- and their rhapsodic embrace of the candidate George W. Bush, who in 2000 won my home state's five electoral votes, and thus the presidency, largely on the basis of his pro-coal promises. Bush was the first non-incumbent Republican presidential candidate to carry West Virginia since Herbert Hoover did it in 1928. 
Needless to say, the industry perspective does not receive luxurious treatment in "Coal." Readers who desire a disinterested assessment of coal's benefits and curses, and the economic consequences of shifting to a post-coal economy, will need to seek out other sources. But disinterested assessments are not Freese's purpose. She wants, yes, to convince us that coal's minuses outweigh its pluses; but much more than that, she wants to prompt us to think broadly -- and specifically -- about our relationship to the physical material of the world, the startling history that has brought us to this point and the chain of human and economic events that is set in motion when we flip on a light switch. On these questions, "Coal," to borrow a phrase, is king.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (M. Wartella) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); COAL MINING (79%); LITERATURE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: TOMASKY, MICHAEL; FREESE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (86%)

TITLE: COAL: A HUMAN HISTORY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



237 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: A Real-Life Bates Motel 

BYLINE:  By David Traxel; David Traxel is the author of "1898: The Birth of the American Century." He is working on a history of the United States in World War I.

 BODY:
 THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY
Murder, Magic, and Madness
at the Fair That Changed America.
By Erik Larson.
Illustrated. 447 pp. New York:
Crown Publishers. $25.95.
 UNTIL 50 years ago, world's fairs were a favored way for a nation to boast of its technical, artistic and social progress. The Paris Exposition of 1889, a glamorous display of cultural sophistication and engineering expertise, helped to establish the model. Gustav Eiffel's thousand-foot tower, the tallest structure in the world, was particularly galling to Americans, who were jealous of their own reputation as builders of great works in steel and iron. The United States government decided to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's discovery of America by sponsoring a world's fair, which would, not incidentally, offer an opportunity to outdo the French.
Chicago won the fierce competition to be the site of the World's Columbian Exposition in spite of doubts about its ability to measure up to the challenge. It had, after all, been labeled the "Windy City" by a New York editor not for its breezy lakeside location but for the scale of local braggadocio. However, economic and political leaders, as well as ordinary citizens, were driven by a desire to counter a nationwide perception that Chicago was more an industrial sink of hog butchering, coal smoke, foul odors, corrupt politics and greed than a center of culturalrefinement. Daniel Burnham, one of the greatest architects of the age (his accomplishments include the Flatiron Building in New York and Union Station in Washington), was chosen as lead designer. He dedicated himself to the success of the exposition, recruiting talents like Charles McKim, Louis Sullivan and Frederick Law Olmsted to design the buildings and grounds while he dealt with obstructive committees, labor problems, insufficient preparation time and a shortage of funds made worse by the beginning of the greatest economic depression the country had ever endured. It seemed an impossible task, but the fair opened more or less on schedule in May 1893, and the result was a magical White City that drew millions of visitors, introducing them to, among other miraculous signs of progress, the first all-electric kitchen, the first zipper, moving pictures, Juicy Fruit gum, Shredded Wheat cereal, belly dancing, a huge map of the United States made of pickles and the Pledge of Allegiance, which was written for the dedicatory ceremony. 
Seeming proof of social, racial and moral superiority was displayed on the Midway, a mile-long entertainment extravaganza, which offered views of "natives" from around the world dressed in bizarre costumes and displaying strange cultural habits. Most exciting of all was the engineering marvel designed by George Ferris to lift passengers 264 feet in the air, a giant rotating wheel that played the role in Chicago that Eiffel's tower had in Paris. The journalist Richard Harding Davis spoke for many when he called the fair "the greatest event in the history of the country since the Civil War." Both the national and local reputation for efficiency, derring-do, technical skill and moral uplift appeared redeemed.
Chicago lured thousands of women who desired jobs and a life of modern urban freedom. "Never before in civilization," the pioneer social worker Jane Addams wrote, "have such numbers of young girls been suddenly released from the protection of the home and permitted to walk unattended upon the city streets and to work under alien roofs."
And here is where the devil enters, in the blue-eyed form of Dr. Herman Mudgett, alias H. H. Holmes. As the White City, symbol of purity and ideal beauty, was being built, Holmes was constructing a palace of horrors nearby. Holmes would kill anyone for pleasure and profit, but he was especially aroused by the murder of innocence, found most attractively in young women and children. His World's Fair Hotel offered rooms at low rates for women, but the gas jets in many of these rooms were controlled from Holmes's office. There were also airtight and soundproof chambers, and a hidden chute from the second floor to the basement where a kiln capable of burning human bone was located. Hundreds of people went missing in the city during the exposition, and, in spite of woeful letters from parents pleading for information, Chicago, with one of the highest homicide rates in the nation, barely noticed. After the fair closed in October of 1893 Holmes skipped town, and it was only because of an audacious attempt to defraud an insurance company on a policy taken out on one of his victims that he was ever caught, by a dedicated Philadelphia police detective.
In "The Devil in the White City," Erik Larson, the author of "Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History," wants to tell the whole story, both the glory of Burnham's creation and the sordid details of the first known urban psychopath in American history. It is not a comfortable fit. He uses language well, but has little sense of pacing or focus, perhaps because of the huge amount of material available on the fair. Burnham was working under tremendous pressure and at frantic speed, but Larson does not give a real sense of that urgency. Instead, there are long, repetitious accounts of unimportant meetings or thousand-mile train rides that do not add to our understanding. It must be said, however, that though this grab-bag approach slows the narrative, it does allow the inclusion of some good stories about characters like Buffalo Bill Cody; Dr. Leslie Keeley, whose "gold cure" for alcoholism was all the rage in the 1890's; and the Spanish infanta, a royal princess who bruised the egos of Chicago's high society.
There is much less material available on H. H. Holmes, and Larson tells that part of the story economically. But he has added his own imaginative touches and sometimes goes farther than the sources warrant, as when he describes Holmes's arrival in Chicago -- "As he moved through the station, the glances of young women fell around him like windblown petals" -- or when he tries to elicit the killer's charm: "To women as yet unaware of his private obsessions, it was an appealing delicacy. He broke prevailing rules of casual intimacy: he stood too close, stared too hard, touched too much and long. And women adored him for it."
We will never know how many people fell victim to Holmes. Once convicted and facing execution, he confessed to some of his crimes, claiming: "I was born with the devil in me. I could not help the fact that I was a murderer, no more than the poet can help the inspiration to sing." He was convinced that his face and head were becoming elongated, and that he was growing to resemble the devil, but of course this was just part of his corrupt fantasy of power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); WRITERS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); LITERATURE (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICS (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: TRAXEL, DAVID; LARSON, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (88%)

TITLE: DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



238 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 3009 words

HEADLINE: Is the Pope Catholic . . . Enough? 

BYLINE:  By Christopher Noxon; Christopher Noxon is a writer living in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
The first sign that something unusual was going on up the hill was the appearance of a fleet of brand-new Volkswagen bugs, lined up on a muddy bluff like a row of oversize Easter eggs. It was a local handyman who spotted them while he was out on a walk through this little valley in the mountains northwest of Los Angeles, near Malibu. Neighbors had already been talking about the 16-acre property on the valley's south slope, and soon word spread that a church group called Holy Family had purchased the site with plans to break ground for a 9,300-square-foot Mission-style church complex. 
 Among the neighbors who wondered about the new arrival was my father, a recently retired documentary filmmaker who joined the local homeowners association when he moved to the area two years ago.This latest project, however, wasn't the usual commercial complex or instant enclave of luxury homes that tended to attract the association's attention. It was a church, that much was clear, but it didn't sound at all like your garden-variety community parish. A representative for the property owner explained that the church was Catholic, but it wasn't affiliated with the Roman Catholic archdiocese. While the church building was relatively large, the congregation was quite small, with about 70 members. And though religious practices and rituals would be familiar to Catholics, there was one big difference: Sunday Mass, it was reported, would be conducted entirely in Latin. 
 Lest anyone get the impression that this band of spiritual seekers might disperse if the collection baskets were to run dry, a church representative assured the neighbors that the church was supported by an unnamed individual congregant with "tremendous financial viability." 
Would that explain the VW bugs? The handyman recalls posing the question at an early community meeting. He was told that the congregant financing the church "had given them as gifts to his nieces and nephews," he says. "I remember thinking, 'That's some generous uncle."'
The person behind the unusually well-endowed chapel turned out to be the actor Mel Gibson, star of "Mad Max," "Lethal Weapon" and "Braveheart." The church is operated by a nonprofit corporation; according to public financial records, Gibson is its director, chief executive officer and sole benefactor, making more than $2.8 million in contributions over the past three years.
The fact that Gibson is building a church in the hills near Los Angeles should come as no huge surprise. Gibson's Catholicism has never been a secret, and in fact gives him a sort of reverse-exoticism in a town where other stars dabble in Buddhism, kabala and Scientology. An avowed family man still on his first marriage, with seven children to show for it, Gibson smokes, raises cattle, publicly shuns plastic surgery and seems wholly unmoved by most of the liberal-left causes favored by industry peers. Recently, however, something beyond the impulse to entertain has been showing up in Gibson's work. Last year he played a former minister who rediscovers religion amid an alien invasion in "Signs" and a reverent Catholic lieutenant colonel in the war drama "We Were Soldiers." In these films, but especially in a new movie, a monumentally risky project called "The Passion," which he co-wrote and is currently directing in and around Rome, Gibson appears increasingly driven to express a theology only hinted at in his previous work. That theology is a strain of Catholicism rooted in the dictates of a 16th-century papal council and nurtured by a splinter group of conspiracy-minded Catholics, mystics, monarchists and disaffected conservatives -- including a seminary dropout and rabble-rousing theologist who also happens to be Mel Gibson's father. 
Gibson is the star practitioner of this movement, which is known as Catholic traditionalism. Seeking to maintain the faith as it was understood before the landmark Second Vatican Council of 1962-1965, traditionalists view modern reforms as the work of either foolish liberals or hellbent heretics. They generally operate outside the authority or oversight of the official church, often maintaining their own chapels, schools, seminaries and clerical orders. Central to the movement is the Tridentine Mass, the Latin rite that was codified by the Council of Trent in the 16th century and remained in place until the Second Vatican Council deemed that Mass should be held in the popular language of each country. Latin, however, is just the beginning -- traditionalists refrain from eating meat on Fridays, and traditionalist women wear headdresses in church. The movement seeks to revive an orthodoxy uncorrupted by the theological and social changes of the last 300 years or so. 
Michael W. Cuneo, a sociology professor at Fordham University who reported on right-wing Catholic dissent in his 1997 book, "The Smoke of Satan," wrote that traditionalists "would like nothing more than to be transported back to Louis XIV's France or Franco's Spain, where Catholicism enjoyed an unrivaled presidency over cultural life and other religions existed entirely at its beneficence."
While traditionalists agree on the broad outlines of correct religious practice, the movement is hardly united. Its brief history is the story of a movement branching off into ever-smaller submovements. Today there are approximately 600 traditionalist chapels, representing a number of theological streams, including the more Vatican-friendly Society of Saint Pius X, the more strident Society of Saint Pius V, the militantly traditional Mount St. Michael's community and the Apostles of Infinite Love, a monastic community in Quebec led by a onetime Catholic brother who claims to be the incarnation of the one true pope. All told, there are an estimated 100,000 traditionalists in the United States.
Gibson's church may be the most comfortably endowed traditionalist house of worship in the country, but in other respects it is quite typical. Most of the congregation met while attending services held by a traditionalist priest, whose church in the San Gabriel Valley was eventually taken over by the Society of Saint Pius X. A group of congregants, including the Gibson family, left in protest. They gained approval from Los Angeles County to build their own church early last year after agreeing to a set of operating guidelines -- covering such issues as parking, lighting, signage and hours of services -- with the regional planning commission and neighbors (including my father).
When I called the church elder who was Holy Family's representative at the county meetings, he agreed to an interview and accepted my request to attend a service, on the conditions that I not identify him or any member of the congregation beyond Mel Gibson, and that I withhold details that might invite the interest of fans or paparazzi. He also asked that I refrain from speaking to the priest, the congregants or anyone else during my visit. He told me that anyone seen speaking to me "will not be welcome back at our church again."
After all the warnings, I was a little surprised to find Sunday Mass at Holy Family an almost entirely ordinary experience. The service itself was remarkably similar to what I remember from parochial school -- that is, until a homily delivered near the end of the two-hour Mass. The priest read a parable from St. Matthew about a farmer whose fields are raided in the night by an enemy who spreads a noxious weed in his wheat. The evil in the story, the priest said, is "the modern church," whose wickedness will be dealt with on Judgment Day.
"The wiping out of our opposition must wait until harvest time," he concluded. It suddenly became clear why Gibson isn't worshiping with his fellow Catholic Martin Sheen down at Our Lady of Malibu.
Gibson is widely known in traditionalist circles, and he has made no secret of his religious affiliation. "I go to an all-pre-Vatican II Latin Mass," he told USA Today in an interview two years ago. "There was a lot of talk, particularly in the 60's, of 'Wow, we've got to change with the times.' But the Creator instituted something very specific, and we can't just go change it." More recently, the Italian newspaper Il Giornale reported that Gibson made a "scathing attack against the Vatican," calling it a "wolf in sheep's clothing." 
While many traditionalists can't abide some of Gibson's career choices -- the onscreen baring of his bottom is a particular source of concern -- most are content to overlook his occasional wild streak. "Gibson should get the tsk-tsk award for lowering his impressive acting talent on occasion," wrote a priest known as Father Moderator on the Internet posting board Traditio. Nonetheless, the priest continued, Gibson "never ceases to project his traditional Catholic faith to the public. Who else in such a prominent position ever does?"
Mel Gibson is also known in traditionalist circles as the most famous son of Hutton Gibson, a well-known author and activist who has railed against the Vatican for more than 30 years. His books on the topic include "Is the Pope Catholic?" and "The Enemy Is Here." (Precisely where is indicated by a map on the dust jacket -- it's a cartoon of Italy, drawn by one of his 49 grandchildren). Gibson pere also publishes a quarterly newsletter called "The War Is Now!," which includes all manner of verbal volleys against a pope he calls "Garrulous Karolus, the Koran Kisser."
Now living in suburban Houston, Hutton Gibson invited me for a weekend visit after an initial phone conversation. When I arrived, he was wrapping up an interview with a syndicated radio program. Hutton Gibson is 84 but seemed a good deal younger (which he credited to his abstinence from drinking, daily doses of vitamins and "never going near a doctor"). He is energized by an abiding love of corny jokes and lively debate, and he peppered a commentary on the scandals facing the Catholic Church with jokes about Texans, the Irish and, inevitably, the pope. 
He said he speaks to his son frequently and knows all about Mel's chapel in the hills. "Mel wasn't raised in the new church, and he wouldn't go for it anymore than I would," he said. "I've got to say that my whole family is with me -- all 10 of them."
While his rhetoric showed no signs of mellowing, the elder Gibson had plenty of reasons to be satisfied. For one, he is a newlywed. His doting bride, Joye, is a statuesque Oregonian who playfully addressed him as "Mr. G." Surrounded by ceramic knickknacks and photos of his grandchildren, he seemed entirely at ease with himself and the world.
Which made it all the odder when he launched into one of his complex conspiracy theories. On our first night together, he nursed a mug of sassafras tea while leading a four-hour tutorial on so-called sedevacantism, which holds that all the popes going back to John XXIII in the 1950's have been illegitimate -- "anti-popes," he called them. As Hutton explained it, the conservative cardinal Giuseppe Siri was probably passed over for pope in 1958 in favor of a more reform-minded candidate. Hutton said Cardinal Siri was duly elected, but was forced to step aside by conspirators inside and outside the church. These shadowy enemies might have threatened "to atom-bomb the Vatican City," he said. In another conversation, he told me that the Second Vatican Council was "a Masonic plot backed by the Jews."
The intrigue got only murkier and more menacing from there. The next day after church, over a plate of roast beef at a buffet joint off the highway, conversation turned to the events of Sept. 11. Hutton flatly rejected that Al Qaeda hijackers had anything to do with the attacks. "Anybody can put out a passenger list," he said. 
So what happened? "They were crashed by remote control," he replied.
He moved on to the Holocaust, dismissing historical accounts that six million Jews were exterminated. "Go and ask an undertaker or the guy who operates the crematorium what it takes to get rid of a dead body," he said. "It takes one liter of petrol and 20 minutes. Now, six million?"
Across the table, Joye suddenly looked up from her plate. She was dressed in a stylish outfit for church, wearing a leather patchwork blazer and a felt beret in place of the traditional headdress. She had kept quiet most of the day, so it was a surprise when she cheerfully piped in. "There weren't even that many Jews in all of Europe," she said. 
"Anyway, there were more after the war than before," Hutton added.
The entire catastrophe was manufactured, said Hutton, as part of an arrangement between Hitler and "financiers" to move Jews out of Germany. Hitler "had this deal where he was supposed to make it rough on them so they would all get out and migrate to Israel because they needed people there to fight the Arabs," he said.
Whether any of this has rubbed off on Hutton's son Mel is an open question. A church elder at Holy Family says that while the two share the same foundation of faith, Mel Gibson parts company with his father on many points. "He doesn't go along with a lot of what his dad says," he says. And beyond claiming to have seen the plans for Holy Family and attended services with the congregation, Hutton Gibson has no apparent connection to his son's church in California.
Still, Mel Gibson has shown some of his father's flair for conspiracy scenarios. In a 1995 Playboy interview, he related a sketchy theory that various presidential assassinations and assassination attempts have been acts of retribution for economic reforms that challenged the powers-that-be. "There's something to do with the Federal Reserve that Lincoln did, Kennedy did and Reagan tried," he said. "I can't remember what it was. My dad told me about it. Everyone who did this particular thing that would have fixed the economy got undone. Anyway, I'll end up dead if I keep talking."
Perhaps nothing Gibson has done will serve as a more public announcement of his faith and worldview than the project he's now completing in Rome. "The Passion" is a graphic depiction of the last 12 hours in the life of Jesus Christ, based on biblical accounts and the writings of two mystic nuns. Gibson is returning to the director's chair for the first time since "Braveheart" in 1995, but he will not appear on-screen. There will not, in fact, be any big stars. Nor will there be subtitles, which might prove a challenge for many moviegoers, since the actors will speak only Aramaic and Latin. Gibson has said that he hopes to depict Christ's ordeal using "filmic storytelling" techniques that will make the understanding of dialogue unnecessary.
The idea came to him a decade ago, he announced at a news conference last September, and he is soldiering on now without the backing of a studio or a U.S. distributor. "Obviously, nobody wants to touch something filmed in two dead languages," he said. "They think I'm crazy, and maybe I am. But maybe I'm a genius."
In Hollywood, the astonishment many felt upon hearing about the project has been heightened by reports that his production company is paying the film's estimated $25 million cost itself. Making a movie that has anything at all to do with religion is risky enough -- remember "The Last Temptation of Christ"? But spending your own money to help pay for it?
"It's a very gutsy thing to do -- I certainly wouldn't do it," says the veteran producer Alan Ladd Jr., who chose Gibson to star in and direct "Braveheart." "But he wouldn't do it if he couldn't it pull off, at least in his own mind. He's obviously satisfying some deep personal need in himself."
Only Gibson knows the precise nature of that personal need, and he declined numerous requests for an interview, limiting his public comments to a January appearance on the Fox news program "The O'Reilly Factor," in which he complained about inquiries regarding his faith and suggested that any reporter asking such questions might be part of a plot to undermine his message of salvation. "I think he's been sent," he told Bill O'Reilly. "When you touch this subject, it does have a lot of enemies." 
Many traditionalists, meanwhile, hope the graphic approach Gibson is taking -- production stills show the star, James Caviezel, beaten to a pulp and drenched in blood, fresh from a flagellation -- will serve as a big-budget dramatization of key points of traditionalist theology. After waging a quiet war against what they see as the Vatican's overly accommodating theology, traditionalists suddenly find themselves equipped with a most unfamiliar weapon: star power. "I'm delighted he's getting more involved," says Bishop Daniel Dolan, founder of more than 30 Latin Mass churches and one of the most influential traditionalists in the country. "To put the weight of his Hollywood celebrity behind the truth that the whole modern church structure is rotten to the core is excellent. I welcome it."
A friend of the Gibson family has his own ideas about how traditionalist thought is informing "The Passion." Gary Giuffre, a founder of the traditionalist St. Jude Chapel in Texas, says Gibson told him about his plans for "The Passion" on a recent visit. "It will graphically portray the intense suffering of Christ, perhaps as no film has done before." Most important, he says, the film will lay the blame for the death of Christ where it belongs -- which some traditionalists believe means the Jewish authorities who presided over his trial and delivered him to the Romans to be crucified. 
In his conversation with Bill O'Reilly (who prefaced the interview by disclosing that Gibson's production company has optioned the rights to O'Reilly's mystery novel), Gibson was asked whether his account might particularly upset Jews. "It may," he said. "It's not meant to. I think it's meant to just tell the truth. I want to be as truthful as possible. But when you look at the reasons why Christ came, why he was crucified -- he died for all mankind and he suffered for all mankind. So that, really, anyone who transgresses has to look at their own part or look at their own culpability."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laying the blame for Christ's death where it belongs?: Gibson directing "The Passion." (Stefano/Lucky Mat); Hutton Gibson, traditionalist author, father of Mel, seer of vast conspiracies. (Danny Turner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EASTER SEASON (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (70%); CLASSICS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); ENDOWMENTS (68%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; MOTION PICTURES; LATIN LANGUAGE; ARAMAIC LANGUAGE; POPES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: CHRIS GIBSON (74%) NOXON, CHRISTOPHER; GIBSON, MEL; GIBSON, HUTTON; GIBSON, HUTTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) MALIBU (CALIF)

TITLE: PASSION, THE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



239 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-9-03: ENCOUNTER; 
Loves Microsoft, Hates America

BYLINE:  By Adam Davidson; Adam Davidson is the Middle East correspondent for the Minnesota Public Radio program "Marketplace."

 BODY:
Fadi is a 23-year-old unemployed computer programmer who lives in his parents' apartment in a nice, middle-class neighborhood in Amman, Jordan. Down one street is the big Amman McDonald's, down another is Fadi's mosque, where he prays several times a day. Stocky, with a big, messy beard, Fadi speaks softly, hunched over, looking at the ground. When he makes an important point, he asks you to repeat it, and when you show you understand, he lifts his head, leans back with a great smile and says, "Sah," "correct." One day, he explained to me in careful detail why he wants to be a shaheed, a suicide bomber against the United States, quoting at length from the Koran. But when he's not talking about blowing himself up and killing American troops, Fadi talks about his other great dream. "I want to be a programmer at Microsoft," he says. "Not just a programmer. I want to be well known, famous." 
 Fadi gives me a tour of his parents' apartment: it is long and narrow, with a private living room for the family and another, more ornate one, for guests. Fadi's bedroom is in the back, and it is small and bare. Everything Fadi has on display sits on a small desk: a copy of the Koran, in blue leather with ornate gold Arabic script on the cover, and a few boxes of audiotapes that he listens to every day. 
 "This is NLP," he explains. "It's very good. Neuro-Linguistic Programming." NLP, which originated at the University of California, Santa Cruz, is a sort of modern "The Power of Positive Thinking," and Fadi says it has helped him overcome the barriers to his dreams. "Six months ago, I was much more negative," he says. "I would get frustrated." For example, Fadi says he finds it frustrating that it is so difficult to get a visa to the United States, so he can't train for a job at Microsoft. But the tapes teach him to remain positive about reaching his dreams. 
Fadi doesn't see anything strange about using American self-help tapes to get a job at an American company, while at the same time harboring hatred of the American government to the point of self-annihilation. Self-help, computer programming, the Koran and jihad are all aspects of the same thing, he says: a search for a way for a good Muslim to live in the modern world. 
On the level of governments, Jordan is America's best friend in the Arab world: the most moderate, most pro-Western Arab state. But Fadi's Jordan is a different place, where just about every citizen has developed a deep loathing for the United States. I haven't seen any polls that determine how many Jordanians hate the United States; it seems very unlikely that the king's government would allow them to be taken. But the estimates never change. 
"You can start thinking of a number above 95 percent," says Laith Shubeilat, a leading Jordanian Islamist. 
"I think it's close to 100 percent," says Sari Nasir, a prominent secular sociologist at the University of Jordan. There have always been pockets of anger against the United States -- you could have found it in any of Jordan's poor Palestinian refugee camps any time in the last few decades -- but that anger has spread to everyone: the poor, the middle class, the upper class, Islamists, the secular, Christians, liberals. 
Still, just like Fadi, almost everyone in Jordan sees his own future, his own happiness, tied up with America. American movies and TV shows and fast food have never been more popular. American computers are everywhere. It's difficult to find a professional who didn't study in the United States, and harder still to find an ambitious young person who isn't eager to do the same. 
Fadi prays at his local mosque five times a day. But he is never satisfied with the imam's speeches. Occasionally, there are tame jabs at the United States, but Fadi says -- and Jordan's minister of state for political affairs and information, Mohammad Adwan, confirms -- that the government keeps a close watch on imams and won't allow them to say anything that could incite the population to violence. 
Oddly, the place Fadi feels the most free to express his anti-American views is a pizza restaurant near his house that is modeled after one in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. It's small: only room for two round tables, the pizza oven and a counter. It has red and white tiles like any American pizza place. It is run by two brothers, friends of Fadi's who both lived in the United States for a long time. 
Y., the younger brother, is chubby and short. He was the first Arab barber in Brooklyn, he says, pulling out a contact sheet of photos of his customers, all with variants of a stylized buzz cut. "Bay Ridge is beautiful," he says. 
The older brother, O., says his pizzas are as good as any in New York. 
"It's very good," Fadi says and orders the special: a large pie with mushrooms, olives, sausage and tomatoes. Fadi comes here about once a week and sits with Y. and O. to discuss jihad and America. 
O., who is tall and lean, was an electrician in the United States and wasn't impressed by the Americans he worked with. He worked hard, he says, but his co-workers loafed around, knowing they would be paid more if the job took longer. He wants to commit jihad against America, but he says it's too difficult. "The Mukhabarat are everywhere," he says, referring to the Jordanian secret police. He can't find a group to join. But, he says, the biggest barrier to jihad is himself. "I am too much in love with this life," he says apologetically. "I'm in love with my family and my business. I'm too weak. But I'm getting stronger." 
Y., the chubby brother, doesn't want to be a jihadi, he says. He won't sit at our table; he stands a few feet away, listening attentively and every now and then laughing, a bit derisively. 
O. and Fadi say they talk a lot about which jihad would be best.
"We have a few jihads we can do: Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir or Iraq," O says. "Palestine is too difficult. You can't get across the border. Chechnya, they already have enough people. Kashmir is easiest." 
"Yes," Fadi says. "You fly to Pakistan, and someone will help you to Kashmir." But the best jihad, they both agree, is Iraq, which means a jihad against the American troops they expect will soon invade Iraq. 
"If I see an American soldier in Jordan on his way to Iraq, I'll kill him," O. says. 
This begins a long argument between Fadi and O. Fadi says the Koran is strict on this: you can't kill anyone who came to your country expecting peace. So, an American soldier here now cannot be harmed. O. says this isn't true. "If an American soldier comes in to my place, I will poison his pizza," O. says. "I will kill him." 
"You can't do it," Fadi argues. 
"I'd just give him his pizza," Y. says, laughing. "Business is business."
"If you feed an American soldier, I will fire you," O. tells him. 
"You mustn't feed a soldier," Fadi says. "You can't help them. But you also can't kill them." 
The biggest blow to Fadi's Microsoft dream came a few weeks ago. He was let go from his job as in-house programmer for a customer-service call center. Fadi's job search is not going well. Occasionally he lands an interview, but then he is told that the company isn't hiring. 
Fadi's father, Rasem, is furious. "His beard is the main problem," Rasem says, flicking his hands wildly in the air. "That's why he can't find a good job. They're afraid he's a religious Muslim. They don't want problems. Fadi doesn't know anything about business. Fadi is very good, but he has to shave. He has to help his brothers." 
Rasem is sitting in his furniture store, a small, dirty, overpacked place, and he's crumpled into one of the couches he's hoping to sell. For the past year and a half, Fadi provided the family's main income. Now that his son is unemployed, Rasem is desperate, he says, living off a 3,000-dinar loan (roughly $4,000) from a bank. He points at a framed photocopy of Fadi's college diploma hanging on the wall. "He has to work," he says to me. "Tell him to shave his beard." 
Fadi has heard about a job at the University of Jordan, and he takes me along to check it out. It is a massive campus -- about 27,000 students, huge utilitarian concrete buildings. He says it will be a good place to work, because many people here wear beards and are religious. 
After he drops off his resume at the administration building, Fadi and I sit on a bench at the center of campus and watch a constant parade of young men and women walking by or sitting on other benches. Fadi says this is where he sees some of the worst influences of American culture on young Jordanians. "They want to look like Americans," he says. "They want to go on dates," he says. 
It's hard to see what Fadi is talking about. About 90 percent of the female students wear the hijab head scarf. About 1 in 10 of those also wear the khimar, a scarf that covers their faces as well. The hijab and khimar are not part of Jordanian traditions. Twenty-five years ago, few Jordanian women wore them, but recently more and more Jordanians -- and more young women than old -- have put on the scarf. In the last two years, as a form of protest against Western culture, student groups have called upon all Muslim women to cover their hair. But Fadi isn't impressed; the campus is still too American for him, especially the female students. "You can tell which ones mean it," he says, "and which ones are just doing it." 
He points to one woman in a hijab wearing blue jeans and those overly thick-soled shoes popular among American teenagers. "She wouldn't dress like that if she was serious," he says. 
America, Fadi says, is just too powerfully present in the lives of his generation of Arabs. America decides what young people will wear and what music they'll listen to. America decides whether there will be war or peace. It's so hard for a young man to feel proud of being an Arab, he says, when it is America that determines his chances for happiness and success.
Every now and then as we talk, a woman or a group of women walk by looking completely Western: no hijab, heavy makeup, a T-shirt, sometimes with several earrings or sexy boots. 
"Do you look at the pretty girls here, or just ignore them?" I ask. 
"Of course I look," he says. "I'm a human being."
"Do you prefer the girls with hijabs or the Western-looking girls?"
"I prefer the hijab, of course." 
"You think the girls with hijabs are prettier?" 
"Let's be realistic," he says, laughing. "Maybe they're not prettier. Maybe I prefer the Western-looking girls. But I wish they would wear the hijab." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brothers Y. (left) and O. serve pizza with talk of jihad (O.) and without (Y.). (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); RELIGION (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISLAM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DAVIDSON, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JORDAN (96%) JORDAN; AMMAN (JORDAN)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



240 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
When South Africa Joined the World, And the Art World

BYLINE:  By BARBARA POLLACK; Barbara Pollack is an artist who frequently writes about contemporary art.

 BODY:
IN 1997, the New York art world discovered South Africa. Curators, collectors, museum directors and art dealers deserted the streets of Chelsea to attend the Second Johannesburg Biennial, lured by its charismatic curator, the Nigerian-born Okwui Enwezor, and his stellar list of international artists. The event launched the new "global art world," and the travelers returned home with a revised map that added Johannesburg to Paris, London and New York on their art itinerary. 
 This news was hardly a surprise to Linda Givon, who has run the Goodman Gallery in Johannesburg since 1966. Widely acknowledged as the most important gallery owner in South Africa, Ms. Givon had already seen changes in her country -- the end of apartheid and the election of Nelson Mandela in 1994 -- that were nothing short of miraculous to her. Since then, it has been possible for her artists -- a roster that includes William Kentridge, Zwelethu Mthethwa, Tracey Rose, David Goldblatt, Penny Siopsis, Willie Bester, Sue Williamson and Kendell Geers -- to emerge from the isolation caused by the economic sanctions against South Africa under apartheid and participate fully in museum exhibitions and art fairs in the United States and Europe. 
 By 1997, Ms. Givon, who trained in the early 60's at the Grosvenor Gallery in London under the tutelage of its founder, the Brooklyn-born writer, dealer and collector Eric Estorick, was ready to operate on a global level. Indeed, in retrospect it seems that decades before the art world descended on Johannesburg, Ms. Givon was primed for its arrival.
"Oh, if I could have been Denise Rene," said Ms. Givon, 67, during a recent trip to New York for the opening of Mr. Mthethwa's show of new photographs at the Jack Shainman Gallery in Chelsea. Rene, the grande dame of Paris art during the bleak postwar years of the 1950's, was an apt choice of a role model for Ms. Givon, who faced a similarly troubled cultural scene when she returned to South Africa in 1964. 
Her first gallery space, a storefront on a business strip in Hyde Park in Johannesburg, grew in size as adjacent stores became available. Six years ago she moved into a spacious, free-standing modern building in the nearby Parkwood neighborhood. She has evolved into a bit of a grande dame herself, warm and gracious yet authoritative and somewhat intimidating, after decades as the biggest fish in a rather small pond, a pond with some very dangerous waters. 
"Most of the galleries in Johannesburg lauded artists who made pretty scenes of life in the townships," Ms. Givon recalled, "so that the white elite who bought these works could believe they were doing their bit for the blacks but were just living with pretty pictures. I decided to go for the artists, when I could, who were confrontational and who were addressing socially important issues."
For Ms. Givon the choice was merely an extension of the aesthetics she had learned at the Grosvenor Gallery, which specialized in works of the Russian avant-garde and the Italian Futurists. But she soon discovered that the reality of running a gallery during apartheid was quite different from selling works of art from revolutionary periods long past. "I was constantly getting into my car and driving down to the cop shop to bail my artists out for pass offenses," she said, referring to the notorious "pass books" that all blacks were required to carry. 
Openings required "cop watchers," who kept an eye out for the Special Branch police, sure to shut down multiracial gatherings. Ms. Givon kept stacks of trays around and handed them to black guests if the police arrived. "Everyone would turn into a waiter," she said. "We would have more waiters than guests at our openings."
Many of the artists that Ms. Givon showed at the time -- Dumile Feni, Julian Motau and Ezrom Legae among them -- came to her through Cecil Skotnes, a white artist who was the director of the Polly Street Art Center, the first art school for blacks in South Africa. When Motau was killed in a domestic dispute in 1969, Ms. Givon arranged for a memorial show of his work at the Association of Arts in Pretoria, then the bastion of white nationalism, insisting that the reception be open to blacks and whites. 
Overcome with emotion at the opening, Dumile Feni gave Ms. Givon a kiss on her tear-drenched cheek. The next day, the police arrested Ms. Givon for immorality. An Afrikaans judge who sat on the board of the arts association came to her defense -- "I stood next to her the whole night and did not see her kiss anyone," she recalled his saying -- and she was released.
In 1978, Ms. Givon showed Legae's infamous "Chicken" drawings that represented the murder of Stephen Biko through pictures of poultry. "A clever reporter got hold of the story, so the cops arrived and asked, 'Where are the Biko drawings?' " Ms. Givon recalled. "I said: 'I don't know what you are talking about. We only have drawings of chickens.' " The series is now considered an essential example of resistance art and is featured at the South African National Gallery.
By the 1980's, the Resistance Art Movement, in which black and white artists took to the streets and risked imprisonment and worse to combat apartheid, overshadowed the more modest efforts of dealers like Ms. Givon. She acknowledges that in many ways she felt guilt-ridden, comforted only by her circle of friends that included the writer Nadine Gordimer, whose husband, Reinhold Cassirer, was also an art dealer, and Sir Sidney Kentridge, the lawyer who led the Biko inquest, represented Mr. Mandela at the Rivonia trial and is also the father of the artist William Kentridge. 
Despite coming from a well-off family -- her father, Morris Finger, was a real estate developer who founded a chain of hospitals and nursing homes in South Africa -- Ms. Givon did not have the means to leave and start over in London or New York. "I stayed in South Africa because I could never afford to go," she said. "But I also really thought there was a gap to be filled, to promote art that wasn't desperately decorative or desperately colonial."
Today, sitting in the Shainman Gallery, Ms. Givon looks back on the 1990's as a dream come true. In 1989, Cassirer retired and ceremoniously delivered William Kentridge to her. Five years later, Mr. Kentridge, now represented by the Marian Goodman Gallery in New York, was featured at Documenta in Kassel, Germany, and soon had an international career.
That year, Willie Bester took Mr. Mthethwa to Ms. Givon's gallery, and she has watched him become, at 42, in great demand in the contemporary-art world. His photographs, portraits of residents of a shanty town outside Capetown, revisit the themes of township art in ways that Ms. Givon has always encouraged.
Beyond the Shainman and Goodman galleries, Ms. Givon can point to several establishments in New York -- Greene Naftali, Florence Lynch, the Project, Artists Space, the Bronx Museum of the Arts -- that either represent or are currently showing works by her artists. 
Ms. Givon has also learned to negotiate in a much broader arena. She notoriously and publicly criticized Mr. Enwezor, who also organized the 1999 Carnegie International and the 2002 Documenta, for his management style in South Africa. Several dealers and curators have complained that she is too controlling and overly protective of her artists. (None of them would be quoted by name for this article.) 
Yet others in the network of gallery owners and curators who are working with Ms. Givon praise her contributions. Marian Goodman attested to their long and good relationship. Dan Cameron, senior curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in Manhattan, praised her endurance.
"Linda operated a world-class professional gallery during a time when there was very little economic support for that kind of work in South Africa," he said. "She never eased up on herself and cut corners, even at a time when any reasonable person would have found an easier route to take."

Zwelethu Mthethwa: New Works
Jack Shainman Gallery, 513 West 20th Street.
Through Saturday

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 9 about the Johannesburg gallery owner Linda Givon misstated a past credential of Okwui Enwezor, whom Ms. Givon criticized over his management of the Second Johannesburg Biennial. He was an adviser in the 1999 Carnegie International exhibition; the principal curator was Madeleine Grynsztejn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Givon and the South African photographer Zwelethu Mthethwa before an untitled picture by Mr. Mthethwa. (James Patrick Cooper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); RETAILERS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (90%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



241 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2148 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
New Songs, Old Message: 'No War'

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES

 BODY:
SHERYL CROW didn't say a word about her opinion of war with Iraq when she had her prime-time moment performing with Kid Rock on the Grammy Awards two weeks ago. Her wardrobe spoke for her, with a big peace sign around her neck and a guitar strap that read "No War." It was a rare mass-media glimpse of something that people who lived through the 1960's had long been expecting: popular music taking an antiwar stand.
 There were reports -- quickly denied by both CBS and the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the Grammy organization -- that musicians had been told not to make antiwar statements during the ceremonies. So of course some did. As presenters, Bonnie Raitt and Fred Durst (from Limp Bizkit) slipped extra words into their scripts, and India.Arie (getting her awards before the telecast) urged her fellow songwriters to address the war. 
 There is no war yet, only threats and preparations. But protest singers, like generals, revisit past battles, looking for parallels. Many are thinking about Vietnam; on March 1 at Joe's Pub in Manhattan, Pete Seeger and members of Sonic Youth were part of a concert drawing on "The Vietnam Songbook," published in 1969. They and the other songwriters denouncing war with Iraq are trying to speed up an artistic and political reaction that took years, not months, to gather momentum in the 1960's. And they want to abort a war, not rail against it. 
Has a protest song ever changed someone's mind? It's impossible to say. A precisely aimed topical song, like Bob Dylan's "Hurricane," can focus public attention on a specific cause. Conceivably John Lennon's "Give Peace a Chance" made some people think twice. But genuine, partisan protest songs usually reach people who already agree with them. Their job is less to persuade than to provide slogans and jingles to rally the converted and convince them that they're not alone. 
The new antiwar songs are virtually absent from commercial radio stations, where most programmers wouldn't dream of dividing or alienating their listenership. Instead, songs are arriving from various fringes -- on the collegiate indie-rock circuit, in hip-hop's activist wing and among the heirs to folky 1960's protesters. A handful of million-selling stars are beginning to join them. 
John Mellencamp has recorded an antiwar song, "From Washington," for his next album. "I don't think there's much chance of hearing this song on the radio," he said. "Guys like myself are not heavily on the playlists anymore, no matter what." 
System of a Down, which has always had a political streak in its hard rock, weighed in on its 2002 album, "Steal This Record," with bitterly skeptical songs like "Boom!" and "A.D.D. (American Dream Denial)." Chuck D of Public Enemy turned John Lee Hooker's "Boom Boom" into an antiwar stomp renamed "No Boom Boom." 
Other musicians are digging out old songs. George Michael remade Don McLean's bleak war story "The Grave" for a video that was broadcast last Monday on MTV Europe. Yo La Tengo recorded four versions of Sun Ra's "Nuclear War" as an EP, and in live shows Rosanne Cash has picked up Bob Dylan's 1983 song "License to Kill," while the English songwriter Paul Weller has been performing Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On."
Less than two weeks ago, a coalition of musicians as disparate as David Byrne, Jay-Z, Dave Matthews, Fugazi, Lucinda Williams, Lou Reed and Missy Elliott pooled their signatures as Musicians United to Win Without War (www.moveon.org), though new songs from them have yet to appear. An Australian group, Peace Not War (www.peace-not-war.org), has been quicker on the uptake; it has already released a compilation album including new and recent songs from English acts like Massive Attack, Chumbawamba and Ms. Dynamite along with Ani DiFranco and Public Enemy. 
The day may be long past when a song like Mr. Dylan's "Blowin' in the Wind" -- the all-purpose and seemingly timeless protest song that encompasses both war and civil rights -- could reach the Top 100 twice, sung by Peter, Paul and Mary in 1963 and by Stevie Wonder in 1966. Earnest, guitar-strumming disciples of the 1950's folk revival, which was the soundtrack to the civil-rights movement and then to anti-Vietnam War rallies, were able to squeeze into the Top 40 of the late 1950's and early 60's. Their music was part of a youthful movement. 
Even then, protests offered little commercial challenge to more lighthearted pop and rock. Soon afterward came the late-60's moment when the not yet formularized FM radio carried calls to revolution from the Jefferson Airplane and the MC5. Yet that moment was just a brief glimmer of anarchy before formats became entrenched and political songs were marginalized. 
Contrary to some memories of the Vietnam era, there was no unanimity among musicians or listeners. For every "Eve of Destruction" (by Barry McGuire) or "Fortunate Son" (Creedence Clearwater Revival), there was also "Ballad of the Green Berets" (Sgt. Barry Sadler) and "Okie From Muskogee" (Merle Haggard). Often, politically tinged songs like Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On" or Buffalo Springfield's "For What It's Worth" were laments and observations that stayed carefully nonpartisan.
The political pressures that created the 1960's protest-song movement have dissipated. There's no military draft to pull together a constituency and force life-or-death choices on every male teenager. And for the punk and hip-hop generation, there is no recent memory of a long, enervating war. Since Vietnam, the United States has waged only brief and overpowering military campaigns: wars that last days or weeks rather than years and that leave comparatively few American casualties. Most of the news coverage looks like fireworks and video games, not carnage. 
Music's modes of persuasion have also changed, from strum-and-sing to stomp-and-shout. Although there are still plenty of folky guitar-slingers who are writing topical songs -- including relative youngsters like Stephan Smith and Dan Bern -- it has been more than a generation since the coffeehouse singalong was close to the center of a pop mainstream. Now a song with a political message is more likely to reach a broad public if that message is slipped into a rhythm-and-blues or hip-hop song, eased along by a groove or blurted out over headbanging metal chords.
Much of the protest impulse has migrated into deliberately separatist styles of music that are content to reach fans alone. Politics moved into punk and metal, where it offered reasons for adolescent frustrations, and into underground hip-hop, where it has resurfaced periodically among rappers -- from Public Enemy to the Roots to Dead Prez -- who take seriously the idea of a songwriter as the conscience of the community. 
System of a Down's whiplash chords and sneering bursts of rhetoric, or Public Enemy's jagged funk and fractured lyrics, or Sleater-Kinney's indie-rock wail, would drive many folkies out of the room. It was difficult enough in the folky era to come up with a song everyone would join; now, after decades of niche marketing and microgenres, it's even harder. One current antiwar song, which has been growing by accretion as various contributors pass it along on the Internet, is the sarcastic "Bomb Iraq." It aims for singalongs by going back to kindergarten, borrowing the tune of the children's song "Clap Your Hands."
The ghost of Woody Guthrie still reigns over many recent protest songs. Mr. Mellencamp's "From Washington" is a rewrite of a Guthrie rewrite of a Carter Family song, while Mr. Bern uses Guthrie's talking-blues format to make uneasy jokes about terrorism. Billy Bragg's "Price of Oil" (which he made available immediately as a free download at www.billybragg.com) is straightforward fingerpicking folk-rock, as is Luka Bloom's "I Am Not at War," with a chorus that longs to become a shared anthem.
Mr. Dylan, Guthrie's most important heir, repudiated the hectoring of his own early protest songs in "My Back Pages," when he decided he had "become my enemy in the instant that I preach." And while that hasn't stopped Mr. Dylan himself from preaching on occasion, it has made later songwriters more wary of self-righteous sloganeering. 
"I like to ask questions," said Mia Doi Todd, a quietly thoughtful songwriter who released her first major-label album last year. "I don't neccessarily like to answer them for people, but I definitely like to make them turn around and question what they have taken for granted." Ms. Todd has lately been performing Joni Mitchell's antiwar song "The Fiddle and the Drum" and a new one of her own, "The Way," which mingles existential ruminations and lines like "We're junking bonds, we're dropping bombs we've made by guzzling gasoline." She has been playing "The Way" whenever she gets a chance to appear on radio broadcasts, generally noncommercial ones. "I wish it were on a single, right now," she said.
Few rock musicians expect antiwar songs to get mass exposure on radio stations that have been largely consolidated into two national networks, Clear Channel and Infinity. Yet that's unlikely to prevent songwriters from writing them. "If people are worried about losing their audience, they're not going to have their audience long anyway," Mr. Mellencamp said. "They don't sit around the studio saying, 'Are we going to offend anybody?' If they do, they should be programming radio." 
But Russell Simmons, the hip-hop mogul who corraled many rappers to join Musicians United, asserts that radio stations would not automatically reject an antiwar hip-hop song with commercial prospects. "I don't believe that there's any media that's controlling hip-hop," he said. "You throw a rap record out the window, no George Bush, nobody, can stop it if it's a hit. We don't need anybody, we never needed anybody to get our message out."
Still, the unstoppable mainstream antiwar hit has not yet been unveiled. The buildup toward war with Iraq has been short compared with the slow escalation in Vietnam; it was not until the late 1960's that rock seemed to align itself fully with antiwar sentiment. In 2003, the response to the Iraq buildup has been splintered. The craving for vengeance after Sept. 11, vented in songs like Toby Keith's "Courtesy of the Red White and Blue (The Angry American)," is still seeking a target. There also remains a chance that the Iraq buildup is brinkmanship that will accomplish its goal without warfare.
One thing is certain: a war, as opposed to the prospect of war, would quickly generate more antiwar music. "Their friends are going to die," Mr. Simmons said. "They're going to write these songs."

'Boom Boom Boom Mr. Son of a Bush'
Here are lyrics from some recent antiwar songs.
We fought your wars with all our hearts
You sent us back in body parts
You took our wills with the truth you stole
We offer prayers for your long lost soul
The remainder is An unjustifiable, egotistical, power struggle
At the expense of the American dream 
 "A.D.D. (American Dream
Denial)" by System of a Down
Voices on the radio
Tell us that we're going to war
Those brave men and women in uniform
They want to know what they're fighting for
The generals want to hear the end game
The allies won't approve the plan
But the oil men in the White House
They just don't give a damn
'Cause it's all about the price of oil
"The Price of Oil" by Billy Bragg
I wake up all fear and dread-locked by all the things I cannot talk about.
We built our house of cards on ignorance, a landfill of deceit.
The walls are hollow, and we listen, worry what they will secrete.
Woe woe woe woe woe woe woe woe is we.
We all know they've got it fixed in politico-economics.
We're junking bonds; we're dropping bombs we've made by guzzling gasoline.
Public confidence is shaken like the apple from the tree.
 "The Way" by Mia Doi Todd
No boom boom boom Mr. son of a Bush
Don't push that button talkin' loud sayin' nothin'
He wanna blow it through the moon
So no boom boom boom
 "No Boom Boom" by Chuck D
If the corporate scandals growin', bomb Iraq.
And your ties to them are showin', bomb Iraq.
If the smoking gun ain't smokin' We don't care, and we're not jokin'.
That Saddam will soon be croakin', Bomb Iraq.
Even if we have no allies, bomb Iraq.
From the sand dunes to the valleys, bomb Iraq.
So to hell with the inspections;
Let's look tough for the elections,
Close your mind and take directions, Bomb Iraq.
"Bomb Iraq" by Various Authors
Hellfire and brimstone
Swapped for oil and guns
When we're pushing up daisies
We all look the same
In the name of the father maybe But not in my name
 "Jacob's Ladder" by Chumbawamba
A new man in the White House
With a familiar name
Said he had some fresh ideas
But it's worse now since he came
From Texas to Washington
He wants to fight with many
And he says it's not for oil
He sent out the National Guard
To police the world
From Baghdad to Washington
 "From Washington" by John Mellencamp

GRAPHIC: Photos: With a peace symbol necklace and a "No War" on her guitar strap, Sheryl Crow let her accessories make a statement at the Grammy Awards last month. (Michael Caulfield/WireImage.com)(pg. 1); Mia Doi Todd, above, and John Mellencamp, left, are taking stands against the impending war in their music. Russell Simmons spoke at a press conference announcing the creation of Musicians United to Win Without War. (Reuters); (Sasha Eisenman); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); SONG WRITING (75%); RAP MUSIC (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF RECORDING ARTS & SCIENCES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



242 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 CHICAGO GETAWAY -- OffPeakTraveler.com, a Web discounter, has two-night packages to Chicago that include air fare and accommodations starting from $296 a person, based on double occupancy, from New York (less from some other cities). Flights are on American Trans Air, which lands at Midway Airport in Chicago, and the hotel is the Raphael in the Michigan Avenue shopping area. The price is good for Monday departures through June 2. Fees and taxes are extra. The deal resumes Sept. 8 through Dec. 15.

BERLIN BONUS -- Through April 30, the luxury Hotel Adlon in Berlin will offer four nights for the price of three. The total for two people sharing a room is $1,021 to $1,240 (at .95 euro to the dollar), depending on the room, with daily buffet breakfast. The 336-room hotel overlooks the Brandenburg Gate; (49-30) 2261-1111 or on the Web at www.hotel-adlon.de.

MATERNITY LEAVE -- Mothers and grandmothers aboard the American Orient Express's Pacific Coast Explorer trip that leaves Seattle on May 5 will get a 50 percent discount for Mother's Day. That brings the starting fare for the seven-night trip to $1,445. Those who share accommodations with them (they don't have to be offspring) will save $300, making their base rate $2,590. The train stops in the Napa Valley, San Francisco and near Hearst Castle before the trip ends in Los Angeles. There are on-board lecturers and historians. The base rate is based on Vintage Pullman accommodations, which include a toilet and sink, and upper and lower bunks; a shower room is shared. No baby pictures or other proof of motherhood is required; (800) 320-4206 or www.americanorientexpress.com.

MEDITERRANEAN CRUISE -- Fred Olsen Cruise Lines is taking 40 percent off the fare for a 22-day cruise on the 451-passenger Black Prince leaving Southampton, England, on April 5. Ports of call include Cartagena, Spain; several ports in Greece; Ceuta, Morocco; and Vigo, Portugal, before returning to Southampton. With the reduction, the fares start at $2,185 a person, double occupancy. Air fare is extra; port taxes are included. The ship has a marina with speedboats, water-skiing and wind surfing; (800) 843-0602 or at www.fredolsencruises.co.uk.

LONDON FOR LESS -- For those who can get away to London this month, 1800FlyEurope has a $207 round-trip fare from Boston or New York for departures through March 31. Taxes and security fees are extra. To add a three-day car rental, the total is $269 a person, based on two traveling together, for a manual-transmission economy car with unlimited mileage, V.A.T. and insurance. For those who don't drive on the left side of the road, a deal with three nights at the Kensington Close Hotel is $349 a person, double; (800) 359-3876 or www.1800flyeurope.com. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIR FARES (90%); CRUISES (89%); AIRLINES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); VALUE ADDED TAX (71%); MATERNITY LEAVE (67%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (67%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); WATERSKIING (60%); HISTORY (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MURCIA, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (70%); GREECE (56%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



243 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Habitats/Ridgewood, N.J.; 
A New World House With an Old World Look

BYLINE:  By TRISH HALL

 BODY:
GARY AND TAMARA SEGAL were giving a tour of their newly expanded and renovated house when they were asked what seemed a simple question: How many bedrooms do they have?
 "Five," Mrs. Segal said. "No, six. Well, it depends on who counts." 
 And don't bother asking how many rooms they have in the house, because answering that is complicated too. In addition to three floors of living space, there are offices on the ground floor for his architectural practice -- a warren of rooms where young associates are hard at work. 
The Segals have been fixing up their house since they bought it more than a year ago, and it isn't finished yet, which is the way things go with architects, who are always busy on other people's places.
They moved from Oakland, N.J., to Ridgewood, N.J., in Bergen County, because they wanted to send their younger daughter, Thalia, to Ridgewood High School, which is highly regarded; their older daughter, Loreen, is a student at Cornell University. It was the first and only house they looked at.
A friend who was a broker took them to the house, which was being rented as a two-family home with a separate area as a doctor's office. They didn't actually like it, but they figured it had potential. "We saw nine-foot-high ceilings," Mrs. Segal said. "You don't find that a lot in houses here in New Jersey."
Besides, it made economic sense. "It was the right town for as high as we could even think to spend," Mr. Segal said. At $400,000, the house was a bargain for the neighborhood, where some homes sell for well over $1 million. They figured they couldn't go wrong if they fixed it up.
"It had been on the market for almost two years," Mrs. Segal said. "Nobody wanted it."
The Segals were also intrigued by the style of the exterior, which Mr. Segal said was uncommon in the New Jersey suburbs but typically found in Holland and Belgium. 
The concrete and wood-frame house, built around the turn of the 20th century, has a roof line with a stepping gable that is characteristic of the style. 
The Segals at first thought they would just do a face lift, but they eventually decided that the house had lost its grace when a porch was enclosed. Rather than tear off the enclosure, they added a new porch. They also moved the entrance to the ground-floor offices because the existing entrance, Mr. Segal said, "looked like a chicken coop."
The Segals also extended the back of the house, creating a breakfast area and a sun room. On the second story, where most of the bedrooms are, they pushed up into the attic space, giving one of the rooms a loft area. The rest of the attic was finished and turned into a bedroom suite for their younger daughter.
Although at first glance the house seems very different from the one they found, they have remained true to the original architectural style. They had considered just building whatever they wanted without regard to its history, but that didn't seem right. "If I had a ranch," Mr. Segal said, "I'd feel more comfortable to make my own rules. Many of the ranches built in the 1950's were one step better than a trailer home."
Inside, the room configurations were not drastically changed. But the kitchen and the bathrooms were redone, in different colors of marble. The master bath has an open shower with an arched window looking into the tub, in a green marble mosaic. "I dreamed about it," Mrs. Segal said. "I wanted this color, like grass."
The house has a European feel that Mr. Segal attributes partly to details like the coffered ceilings, and partly to the furniture and paintings, some of which they brought with them from Europe.
Mr. Segal, who was born in Romania, and Mrs. Segal, who was born in Hungary, met when they were studying architecture in Bucharest. Twenty years ago, they received visas to move to the United States, and they ended up in New Jersey because they had cousins in Englewood.
The Segals have a sense of humor about architectural history and the changes that every generation makes to its houses. "Maybe someone will come someday and say: 'What was in their minds? They thought this was Europe?' "
Some of the ornate details that give the house its richly layered feeling were achieved in surprising and often inexpensive ways. The front door was made of the usual particle board, but they cut out spaces and put in sculptured wood panels made in Indonesia and bought at Pier One. "It is consistent with the houses," he said, "because these houses had massive wood doors with sculptured panels or wrought-iron grills."
IN other cases, though, they stretched to create an authenticity that was important to them. The French doors between the living room and a small front parlor, for instance, have beveled glass. "When you grow up with beveled glass," he said, "you don't want to see doors without that."
The extensive use of stone contributes to the solid, Old World feeling. In the kitchen, Mrs. Segal, who once worked as an architect but is now retired, has been scratching at the sealant on the marble, trying to return the stone to its natural state, even if that means it stains. "The people who sold it to me think I'm crazy," she said. But that's the way she likes it. "You can feel the cracks," she said.
Not all the bedrooms are furnished yet. One has paintings resting against the walls, work done by their older daughter, including a self-portrait at age 13. "Probably we will let her have this as her studio," Mr. Segal said. The renovation of the house cost about $300,000, and the Segals said they could afford to do it only with substantial financial help from Mrs. Segal's father, who received reparations from Germany for the murders of his mother and sister in concentration camps.
From the attic bedroom of their younger daughter, the Segals can see across the street to the Village Hall and a large park. Their house is on a main street that historically has been home to doctors' offices. That created something of a problem when Mr. Segal wanted to change the doctor sign to an architect's sign.
He put his name in large letters outside, but the town made him remove the word "Architect," he said, because it wasn't an allowed sign in an area that can only have doctors' signs.
Mr. Segal wanted a sign, he said, because when one is placed at his office or on work sites, it brings inquiries from potential customers for his business, which handles both residential and commercial assignments. 
He figured there must be another approach. "Nobody tells you how to cut your grass or plant your bushes," he said. "I decided I will do something that doesn't have a law governing it."
So last spring, he bought dozens of big yellow mums and arranged them in his yard to spell out the word architect, a display that resulted in a story in the local newspaper on the beauty of mums. It also, he said, stopped traffic. 
"Every kick in the back," he said happily, "is a step ahead."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary and Tamara Segal's house has been renovated and expanded, and isn't finished yet.; The Segals bought their house because they thought it had potential. The kitchen was redone, with lots of marble. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (70%); BELGIUM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



244 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.; 
Noise Complaints in a Condominium

 BODY:
 Q. I live in a condo building of 20 units. For two years I have been seriously disturbed by noise from another unit. We have an owners' association, and our bylaws state that the board is to "govern the conduct of the unit owners." When we brought the noise problem to the board, the president said that she would not regulate issues between individual owners and that such issues had to be worked out by the owners involved. What should we do now? . . . Pamela Windo, Jersey City.

A. Donald M. Onorato, a lawyer in Hackensack, N.J., who specializes in co-op and condominium law, said that a condo association in New Jersey has a duty to provide a fair and efficient procedure for the resolution of housing-related disputes between individual unit owners and between unit owners and the association. "This procedure is commonly known as alternative dispute resolution," Mr. Onorato said, adding that having such a procedure is a requirement of the state's Condominium Act.
 "And while many times owners take these matters into their own hands by filing housing-related complaints in court, the association cannot evade its obligation to attempt to solve these disputes," he said. 
He said that many condo associations form a committee or hire an outside mediator, perhaps a retired judge or lawyer, to hear the dispute. 
"The statute does not provide that the association must resolve the dispute," he said. "But it must provide a procedure for doing so." If the procedure does not resolve the problem, Mr. Onorato said, it would be up to the unit owner to go to court.

Changing Names On a Deed

Q. When I bought my home in 1975, I included the woman I was living with on the deed. She moved out three years later, and for the last 24 years I have maintained the house and paid the mortgage. Now that mortgage rates are low, I would like to refinance. This seems an opportune time to have the deed changed to my name only. What are my legal rights if the change is contested? What are the other person's rights? Is she entitled to half the value of the house at the time she left or is she entitled to half the current value? . . . Michael Perkins, Glenford, N.Y.

A. Michael H. Sahn, a real estate lawyer in Garden City, N.Y., said that the writer should be able to get full title without having to pay anything to the other owner, provided the property is owned as a tenancy in common. (With a tenancy in common, Mr. Sahn said, each owner owns a specific share of the property -- often an equal share -- and each has an equal right to use the property.)
He said that under the state's Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law, provided the property is owned as a tenancy in common, a co-owner can get full title through a claim of adverse possession.
One way to make the claim is to show exclusive possession for 10 years after theother owner or owners have been "ousted" from the property. "Actual ouster usually requires the possessing co-owner to expressly communicate an intention to exclude or deny the rights of the non-possessory tenant to the property," Mr. Sahn said.
Without actual ouster, he said, the law allows a co-owner to assert a claim of adverse possession if the person asserting the claim has been in continuous, exclusive possession for 20 years or more. Mr. Sahn said that while the law gives the letter writer the right to acquire full title to the property by adverse possession, legal proceedings and a court judgment are necessary to do so.
The other way unmarried individuals can own property is as joint tenants with right of survivorship. With that form, each person has an identical ownership interest, and on the death of one, the survivor or survivors become the sole owners. In a joint tenancy, he said, a claim of adverse possession is not possible. But the writer can begin an action for partition, to sever the joint tenancy. If successful, this usually results in the sale of the property, with the proceeds split proportionately. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (95%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



245 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THEATER; 
Empty, and Expensive

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Wendy Wasserstein brought up some valid points in her remarks about the state of Broadway theater, but she missed one of the main reasons seats are empty today. 
It's not that audiences lack courage; it's the price of tickets in a faltering economy that keeps buyers away from the ticket window. 
 Look at the movies. Big crowds, big profits, a big year, and fear has played no part in it.

CHARLIE MAIER
Lincolnwood, Ill.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



246 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
With Prices Relatively Low, Co-ops Regain Favor

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
THREE years ago, Emelda Morrissey decided the time had come to own a home again. She had raised her family in a single-family house in Irvington and moved to an apartment in Dobbs Ferry after her 30-year marriage ended in divorce. And even though she was living in an attractive two-bedroom apartment in a well-maintained building, Ms. Morrissey said, she bristled whenever it came time to write the monthly rent check. Finally, after 10 years of paying rent, she purchased a co-op.
 Ellen Elfred, a teaching assistant in the Eastchester Public Schools, owned a three-bedroom house in Croton-on-Hudson. But last fall, when her son left for college, Ms. Elfred, a widow, realized she no longer wanted the responsibility of owning and maintaining a large home. She too decided to buy a co-op. 
 While the decisions were similar, the properties were not. Ms. Morrissey chose to buy in Bronxville and spent $249,000 three years ago for a two-bedroom, two-bath unit close to the center of the village, within walking distance of the quaint shops that line the main street and across the way from St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church, where she is a parishioner. Currently, Ms. Morrissey's unit -- after a $30,000 investment in a new kitchen and other upgrades -- is estimated by real estate agents to be worth $425,000 to $450,000. "I may have lost money in the stock market," Ms. Morrissey said, "but my co-op has certainly increased in value."
By comparison, Ms. Elfred's two-bedroom, two-bath co-op with parking on Warburton Avenue in Yonkers, along a strip where many apartment buildings were converted to co-ops in the 1970's and 1980's, cost $105,000. The unit has spectacular Hudson River views, although it is not within easy walking distance to a village center. But as Ms. Elfred explained, "I don't mind getting in car to go to things, so I didn't need to pay a premium for proximity to shopping."
And, like other co-op owners, if she wants to take a vacation, Ms. Elfred enjoys the freedom to turn the lock to her front door and depart, without worrying about having the pipes burst or the basement flood, as she might if she owned a condo or a house.
After being somewhat out of favor in the early 1990's, real estate professionals say, co-ops are now a very popular option in Westchester -- mostly because they are a relatively affordable alternative to owning a house or a condominium in one of the most expensive areas of the country. The median sale price of a single-family house in the county as of the fourth quarter of 2002 was $520,000. There are fewer condos than co-ops, and the median price of a condo was more than two and a half times the median co-op price.
Patti Cunningham, an owner of Cunningham & Schneider Realty in White Plains, said co-ops are appealing to an increasingly broad range of people. Her co-op customers include empty-nesters, young professionals, couples just starting out and families -- "all of whom still want to be building some equity instead of paying rent month after month," she said.
In places like Bronxville, where the median price of a single-family home was $1.197 million in 2002 and the public school system is a major draw, co-ops are sometimes the only way a young family can afford to move there, said Sheila M. Stoltz, a saleswoman for Houlihan/Lawrence. "If you can't get into the home market," she said, "a co-op is a great alternative at an attractive price point." A two-bedroom unit in a good building in Bronxville would sell for about $390,000, she said.
Co-ops also appeal to buyers like Lou Marciano, a 40-year-old salesman for Ace Scaffolding, a construction company in Lodi, N.J., who owned a two-family house in Brooklyn but wanted to live in a more suburban setting. Mr. Marciano's decision was to sell the house in Brooklyn and purchase a studio apartment in Port Chester, "where I could still be close to the city and my work, but live a more relaxed life when I go home."
Because of uncertainty about the economy and about his future plans, Mr. Marciano, who is single, chose a studio as opposed to a larger unit. "For me right now, a studio seemed to be the smartest choice," he said. "I can still keep money available for other investments if the economy improves, and if I want to sell at some point or move elsewhere, I'm not bogged down with a huge commitment. I guess you could say that like many other people these days, I'm in a cautious frame of mind."
Co-ops have long been considered the ugly duckling of the Westchester real estate world because they have not appreciated as reliably and consistently as other types of housing. They "earned an unfair reputation back in the 1980's," when many of them lost value, Ms. Cunningham said.
CO-OPS today make up 24 percent of the county's housing units for sale, and they are selling well. Out of a total inventory of 3,700 ownership units (single-family and multifamily houses, as well as co-ops and condos) on the market at the end of 2002, 897 were co-ops.
The median sale price of a co-op in Westchester last year was $100,000, according to figures from the Westchester Putnam Multiple Listing Service, a subsidiary of the Westchester County Board of Realtors and the Putnam County Association of Realtors. That was a 20 percent above the price a year earlier and more than 50 percent above the figure as recently as 1999, $66,000.
Most of the co-ops in Westchester -- the 2000 census found 41,659 units -- were once rental apartments and are in buildings that were converted in the 1970's and 1980's.
P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Board of Realtors, said a spate of co-op conversions occurred after the state enacted the Emergency Tenant Protection Act almost 30 years ago, which instituted rent controls and signaled to building owners that their profits would be be regulated. 
Many of the co-op sales during the wave of conversions were to insiders who saw an opportunity to buy units at a lower price and sell at a profit. "The intense speculative activity tended to inflate prices," Mr. Mercurio said. "Over all in the 80's, real estate was a hot investment. Sales volume and prices increased rapidly, especially in the co-op market."
Then in October of 1987, the stock market crashed, causing a sudden deflation in pricing nationally, with Westchester feeling the effects of the recession beginning in 1990. Many co-op owners suffered losses if they chose to sell during that period.
There were only 621 co-ops sold in the county in 1991, shortly after the market collapsed, compared with 1,680 sold last year, in a much stronger market. While prices were up sharply, the number of sales last year was almost identical to the figure in 2001. 
Ms. Cunningham noted that a two-bedroom, two-bath rental costs $1,500 a month or more in Westchester without utilities. A co-op apartment of about the same size, including a doorman, she said, can be found for $100,000 to $200,000, and it carries a monthly maintenance fee that includes some utilities, taxes and upkeep of the building. The mortgage payment for the co-op unit and the monthly maintenance fee are often less than rent, although purchasing requires a down payment, mortgage application fees and closing costs.
Unlike owners of condominiums, co-op owners do not own their apartments. They own shares in the corporation that holds the title to the building and the land. Co-op owners, however, can write off the interest on the mortgages for the building and the unit itself as well as real estate taxes.
With a co-op, the ownership corporation is responsible for upkeep on a building; with condos and homes, the individual owner is responsible.
Also, co-ops tend to cost less than condos. At $266,000, the median sale price of a condo was considerably higher than for a co-op. Dollar volume of co-op sales last year was $216.4 million, compared with $332.9 million for condos, of which 1,118 were sold. The volume for single-family homes was almost $3.81 billion. 
A drawback for co-ops in the opinion of many people is that a potential purchaser usually must be approved by the board that manages the building. Mr. Mercurio referred to the approval process as "an extra step and sometimes a complication." There is concern, he said, that some boards reject qualified buyers for illegal reasons, like race or marital status.
In an attempt to counteract such illegal practices, bills are pending at both the state and county level that would require co-op boards to provide a written explanation for a rejection within five days of turning down a buyer. Both bills seem to be languishing, however, Mr. Mercurio said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lou Marciano owned a two-family house in Brooklyn but sold it and bought a studio co-op at the Windsor in Port Chester for a more relaxed life. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); RELIGION (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



247 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: WEDDING/CELEBRATIONS; 
Krystyna Stachowiak, Howell Raines

 BODY:
Krystyna Anna Stachowiak, a former marketing and public relations consultant, and Howell Raines, executive editor of The New York Times, were married yesterday at Trinity Episcopal Church in Mount Pocono, Pa. Canon Virginia Rex Day performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Raines, 39, was until recently the executive consultant at Coltrin & Associates, a New York public relations firm. From 1991 to 1995, she was a Washington correspondent for The Warsaw Voice, an English-language weekly. 
 The bride graduated with a master's degree in English literature from Opole University in Opole, Poland, where her parents, Zofia and Henryk Stachowiak, live. Her father, a former governor of Opole Province, is the chairman of Vendo Ltd., a furniture manufacturer in Opole. Her mother, who is retired, was a supervisor at the Center for Teaching Methodology and an economics teacher at the Economics High School, both in Opole. 
Mr. Raines, 60, was editor of The Times's editorial page before becoming executive editor in 2001. He won the Pulitzer Prize for feature writing in 1992. He graduated from Birmingham-Southern College and received a master's degree in English from the University of Alabama. His parents, the late Bertha Walker Raines and the late W. S. Raines, lived in Birmingham, where his father was a founder of the Raines Brothers Store Fixture Company. 
The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the bridegroom's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); PARTITIONS & SHELVING MFG (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); FURNITURE MFG (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: COLTRIN & ASSOCIATES (58%); CANON VIRGINIA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%)

PERSON: STACHOWIAK, KRYSTYNA ANNA (KRYSTYNA ANNA RAINES); RAINES, HOWELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (66%) ALABAMA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%); POLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



248 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
The Fears Are the Same, but the Strategies Vary

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE threat of war and the uncertain economic outlook are testing money managers across the board, making some take on new risks and others hedge their bets much more than usual.
 Katherine Schapiro, portfolio manager for international equities at Strong Capital Management, is struggling to improve performance in what she fears could be the fourth consecutive year of decline for world stock markets. Last year, the three international funds that she ran with Stacey Ho were down 20 percent, compared with a 15.9 percent decline in their benchmark, Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia and Far East index, or EAFE; both figures include dividends. 
 The 2002 performance was attributable in part to the two managers' very conservative approach to their stock selection, shunning riskier and volatile market sectors, including telecoms, technology, media and financial services. Because of that strategy, the three Strong international funds did not do as well as the overall market during the fourth-quarter rally. They rose about 4.75 percent for the quarter, compared with a gainof 6.5 percent for the EAFE. (In an effort to reduce costs, the funds will become one -- under the Strong Overseas name -- at the end of this month.) 
Now Ms. Schapiro is picking up some riskier stocks on the expectation that they will quickly move higher when world equity markets revive. Among the additions from Europe are Telecom Italia; Intesa BCI, an Italian bank; and STMicroelectronics, the semiconductor company. From Japan, there is NTT, the telephone company.
Ms. Schapiro knows that she is taking on more risk, but she contends that she is getting some of these and other stocks at even lower prices than were available last fall.
"It is not about being bullish on the market," she said. "It's just that some better values are coming into play."
Ms. Schapiro said she was also focusing on some longer-term bets -- stocks that may not leap immediately when a new rally begins but have a good chance of doing better than the overall market over the next 12 to 18 months. One is Tesco P.L.C. the British-based food retailer whose stock is down 33 percent over the last 12 months.
William M. Fitzgerald, head of fixed-income investing at Nuveen Investments in Chicago, is seeking to minimize risk -- the risk of being wrong on the direction of interest rates. He is trying to walk a path between the possibility of rates staying near current levels -- close to four-decade lows -- or jumping about half a percentage point, a big move in the current environment.
He expects the jump in rates if the United States wins a quick victory in a war with Iraq and can resolve its current disagreements with France, Germany and Russia. But rates will climb just a bit, if at all, he predicts, if a war lasts longer than expected and if the disagreements persist. The threat of retaliation from terrorists because of a war could also keep uncertainty high and interest rates low, he said.
TO prepare for either of these outcomes, Mr. Fitzgerald is concentrating Nuveen's municipal bond funds on maturities of 10 years to 15 years, avoiding bonds with shorter or longer maturities.
If interest rates rise, short-term maturities will be the best bet because their prices will fall the least. But their yields are so low that if interest rates do not rise, the return for Nuveen's funds will be too low, Mr. Fitzgerald said.
If interest rates stay about the same, bonds with 20 years to 30 years until maturity will bring the best return because their yields are higher. But because these longer-term bonds will also produce the biggest price losses if rates do rise, they are too risky for Nuveen's midstream strategy.
Ten- to 15-year securities provide a good-enough yield if rates are stable and more modest price depreciation if rates do climb.
Neither Ms. Schapiro's nor Mr. Fitzgerald's approach is the preferred strategy; each is a compromise. And both are a reminder that this is a difficult year for managers of both stocks and bonds, who now have fewer havens from war and uncertainty.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Lows Ahead?"Morgan Stanley Capital Internationals stock index for Europe, Australasia and the Far East is near its low of last year. Graph tracks index since Jan. 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); BONDS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: TESCO PLC (81%); STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (58%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (54%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (54%); NUVEEN INVESTMENTS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT; NUVEEN INVESTMENTS 

TICKER: TSCO (LSE) (81%); TIT (BIT) (54%); TI (NYSE) (54%); STM (PAR) (54%); STM (NYSE) (54%); STM (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%)

PERSON: SCHAPIRO, KATHERINE; FITZGERALD, WILLIAM M; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



249 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1127 words

PERSON: David F. D'Alessandro 

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR; 
Bold Enough for Hancock Himself

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
IF the rules were changed to favor David F. D'Alessandro, the next Winter Games would include a biathlon of business and marksmanship. That is how precisely the chief executive of John Hancock Financial Services has taken aim against the United States Olympic Committee in recent months.
 Mr. D'Alessandro has long been an outspoken critic of the International Olympic Committee, as in 1999 when he fought to clean up the I.O.C. after the Salt Lake City bribery scandal. 
 His most recent complaint is that the American committee hasn't told him how much money in its budget actually goes to the athletes. It led to his threatening to cancel about $50 million of worldwide sponsorship that Hancock has promised for each four-year Olympic cycle if the committee does not allow a third-party audit. He testified before Congress on the matter, and in newspaper interviews likened the committee's accounting methods to a shell game.
His campaign has helped to accelerate change. The U.S.O.C.'s chief executive, Lloyd Ward, resigned on March 1, the day that Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, said information that he had gathered while investigating the committee suggested possible criminal activity. The U.S.O.C.'s chief operating officer, Fred Wohlschlaeger, quit on Monday.
It seems an unusual and time-consuming crusade for a chief executive with no particular athletic aspirations. Then again, there is little usual about Mr. D'Alessandro, who came to Hancock in 1984 as its senior public relations executive and became chief executive in 2000. He was 49 then, the youngest chief executive in the company's 140-year history.
He arrived cheerful for a recent meeting at his office on the 59th floor of the John Hancock Tower, despite spending the morning pumping water from the basement of his home west of Boston and borrowing a contractor's unheated van when none of his handful of cars would start.
Settling with a cup of coffee into a butter-cream leather chair, he played down the energy he has expended on the U.S.O.C. "They are so incredibly inept it doesn't take a great deal of effort, actually," he said. He said he first became seriously concerned about the committee after he asked for information while he was on vacation in January.
"I expected I would get a pretty precise, easy response," he said. "Instead, it was like Armageddon: 'Why do you want to know?' and 'We don't know' and 'That's confidential.' It was kind of like, 'Oh, so it's that bad, is it?' "
Mr. D'Alessandro, who has a 4-year-old son with his second wife and two grown children from his first marriage, was on another vacation when he decided to write an op-ed page article for The Boston Globe about how the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston was handling the issue of child molesting by priests. He was one of the first business leaders to call for Cardinal Bernard F. Law to step down.
He was also one of the first to side with a janitors' union when thousands of people who clean Boston's office buildings, including his own building, went on strike last fall. He criticized the developers who were resisting raises in pay and health care to the workers, many of them immigrants.
He said many of the developers were themselves "the sons and daughters or grandsons and granddaughters of immigrants," invoking the memory of his grandfather, an Italian immigrant, who owned a small grocery store in Utica, N.Y. "And now they're saying, 'We've got ours; you can't have yours.' "
Mr. D'Alessandro's public relations experience is deep. He graduated from Utica College, then part of Syracuse University, with a degree in journalism and public relations in 1972. He worked for two New York advertising agencies and held various marketing jobs, designing campaigns for clients as varied as the National Bowling Council and Citibank.
More interesting is how Mr. D'Alessandro, who has never taken a business course, has become John Hancock's chief strategist. Three years after revamping the company's advertising and sponsorships as vice president for corporate communications, he was invited to take over the group life and health division. He later ran Hancock's retail division before becoming president in 1998 and chief executive two years later.
He acknowledges that the job leaves little time for dealing with things like the U.S.O.C., but he cuts out other distractions, like serving on the boards of other companies.
Keeping Hancock profitable has been difficult in the current economy, he says. But having taken the company through an initial public offering three years ago, he has many analysts on his side.
"He is clear on what he expects the company to be able to accomplish and communicates that on a regular basis," said Elizabeth Malone, who follows the insurance industry as a managing director for the Advest Group.
He certainly does not dress up what John Hancock does: sell insurance and make investments.
With his iconoclastic sense of humor, he plays down his management skills. "This business is not complicated; it's about bookmaking and loan-sharking," he said. He also likes to use a casino analogy. "We're the house," he said. "People are going to stay at the table long enough for us to collect money off them."
It's more than a streetwise comparison. His father, he says, was a compulsive gambler whose debts to loan sharks lost the family its store; David was in college at the time. "My dad was brilliant," he said. "He was crazy, but he was brilliant."
While claiming to be no genius himself, he said his natural curiosity has served him well.
"You have lots of experts around you, certainly, but they're more numbers-oriented versus strategic-oriented," he said. He said he recently spent 10 hours researching planes on the Web because Hancock invests in that industry.
HIS office overflows with autographs from people like Lincoln and Napoleon and trinkets once owned by celebrities like John Lennon and Marilyn Monroe, vestiges of a memorabilia store he owned briefly in Baltimore. But lest anyone confuse his nostalgia for sentimentality, Mr. D'Alessandro blinks back no tears when saying that the sale of the John Hancock Tower, the tallest building in Boston at 62 stories, is under way. ("The building is simply capital," he said.) Nor does he fret that John Hancock itself, if the economy recovers, may be a prime target for merger or acquisition. ("Hanging on to the job does not drive me," he said. "I'll find something else to do in life.")
Despite his affection for the Olympics, he is willing to drop the whole relationship if it threatens to sully John Hancock's name. "They're in a box because they either do the audit or we come out and say they refuse to," he said. At that point, he added, "they may was well just find a wall and a blindfold."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David F. D'Alessandro, chief of John Hancock, has threatened to cancel about $50 million of sponsorship for each four-year Olympics cycle. (Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BRIBERY (70%); MARRIAGE (61%); SCANDALS (56%) OLYMPIC GAMES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%) UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE; JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

TED STEVENS (57%) D'ALESSANDRO, DAVID F; FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



250 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Bear Market May Be On Its Last Legs

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
MARCH 10, 2000. For many investors, it was the day the music died.
 Three years ago tomorrow, the Nasdaq composite index peaked at 5,048.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index did not stop rising until two weeks later, but investors look back on that Nasdaq peak as a turning point, the end of a decade-long run. 
 Steven C. Leuthold, the chairman of Leuthold Weeden Capital Management in Minneapolis, has dealt with bull and bear markets for more than four decades. Last week, he discussed his view of the future. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 

Q. Investors have turned away from technology stocks. Are they right?

A. We believe technology is the way to make money now. About 25 percent of our money is in tech stocks. Three years ago, we had zero. One of the things that has happened in the intervening period is that analysts, who have been beaten up so badly for so long, may be underestimating earnings growth.
Cuts in expenses and costs have been so dramatic that a little bit of revenue growth may translate into much bigger profits than analysts can currently see. 
At a time like this, when some of these stocks have been beaten down so badly, I think if you are patient you can make six or seven times your money. 

Q. Are stocks cheap?

A. At a level of 840, the Standard & Poor's 500 index is exactly at its median multiple from 1957 to date. That's not particularly cheap but it's not expensive, either. Three-quarters of all bear markets have stopped at median valuation levels.

Q. Is this bear market over?

A. I think so. We are going through a testing process. But if we can't make new lows with all the bad stuff that has happened so far this year, it implies to me we have a pretty solid base. If we do go to war with Iraq, the odds are that it will be over very, very quickly.

Q. What other segments do you like?

A. We have a 12 percent holding in what we call diversified metals and mining -- copper stocks and other diversified mining companies like Inco.
We really do see a pickup in industrial commodity inflation, and these companies will benefit from that. Inventories are relatively low, and prices are rising. 
And we have a double market weight in health care stocks. But we are not buying any of the big drug companies yet. 
Of that, we took a new 6 percent position in biotechnology stocks. The rest is in health care/cost containment, including a lot of generic drug companies and companies that provide outpatient treatment. 
In the cost containment area, we own Omnicare, Diagnostic Products and OraSure Technologies. Our generic drug holdings include Barr Laboratories, Teva, the Israeli company, and Sicor. 

Q. Which technology stocks do you like?

A. Stocks like Cisco Systems and Qualcomm, as well as some of the old regional Bell companies, like SBC Communications. We own Avocent, which is in networking equipment. We just bought F5 Networks, which is also in the networking area. One stock that is a sleeper but is also a bit riskier is Foundry Networks. We also own stocks in the office electronics area, Xerox and Canon.

Q. Which groups of stocks are you avoiding?

A. We have nothing in financials. We look at 12 subsets of financial stocks, and not a single one is ranked attractive. People are overenthusiastic about financials; they now represent 21 percent of the S.& P. 500.
It has been our experience that when you get these big overweight parts of the market, like energy was in the 1980's and technology was in the 1990's, ultimately the market tends to correct. We don't have anything in utilities or transportation, either. But eventually some people will make big money in the airlines. It is a critical area, and people won't allow them to go out of business. 

Q. Do bonds have any appeal?

A. We have nearly doubled our exposure to junk bonds over the last year. And yields on municipal bonds are the same as on governments of the same maturity. That is the first time that has happened since 1975-1976. That encourages me to do a spread trade and go long munis and short Treasuries. It's an attractive trading opportunity.

Q. What lessons can we draw from what's happened over the last three years?

A. What we had before, that was the biggest bubble we have ever seen. Peak to trough, the S.& P. 500 is down almost 50 percent.
I think you have wiped out the public as a serious investor for maybe 10 years. Equities were 70 percent to 75 percent of the typical 401(k). I would guess that will fall to 40 percent to 50 percent. I think that is probably appropriate, but the public will probably miss out by doing that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leuthold 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (88%); BONDS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (68%); INFLATION (67%); MINES & MINING (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ORASURE TECHNOLOGIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LEUTHOLD WEEDEN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: OSUR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (51%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%)

PERSON: LEUTHOLD, STEVE; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%); IRAQ (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



251 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Color Them Green (or Greedy) 

BYLINE:  By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
A LOT of publications marshal facts and figures to influence car-buying decisions. The latest, 2003 edition of "ACEEE's Green Book" is no exception, though it doesn't provide the usual fodder of top speeds or zero-to-60 acceleration times.
 Rather, the publication offers lesser-known measures like the "environmental damage index" of a car, plus estimates of the health care costs to society from the pollution produced by a particular model. The Green Book ispublished by the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, an environmental group in Washington. 
 The Green Book also ranks cars by environmental standards. "The mantra of our book is to encourage consumers to buy the greenest vehicle that fits their needs and their budget," said James Kleisch, the co-author (with John DeCicco). "We don't say, 'Stay away from pickup trucks.' We say that if you're going to buy a pickup, here's the greenest one on the market."
The Environmental Protection Agency ranks vehicles based on fuel economy and emissions, too, but the Green Book assigns a "green score" that includes a life-cycle assessment, taking into account factors like how much energy is used to build a particular model.
The book includes lists of the greenest and meanest 2003 models. The highest green score -- 57 -- goes to a two-seat hybrid gas-electric car, the Honda Insight. The exotic $675,000 Ferrari Enzo ranks lowest, with a score of 9. But the group noted that cars like the Enzo are so rare that they do far less harm to the environment than big trucks.
A third list, called Greener Choices, picks what the group considers the best vehicles in categories from compact cars to sport utilities. The vehicles on this list tend to be models that consumers shun, like a four-cylinder version of the Ford Ranger pickup.
The rankings can be confusing, as several of the greenest vehicles are California-only editions that receive higher green scores than their counterparts on the Greener Choices list. The Toyota Prius is the same from coast to coast, but it is classified as a super-ultra-low-emission vehicle in California, where low-sulfur gasoline is sold, and as an ultra-low-emission vehicle elsewhere.
Highlights of the rankings are on line at www.greenercars.org. The E.P.A.'s list is at www.epa.gov/greenvehicles.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Dirty Dozen..." lists features and specifications for selected automobiles ranking the dirtiest and cleanest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); WRITERS (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



252 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Putting Banks in Touch With Their Retailer Side

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
FOR a glimpse into the future of banking, Robert H. Steele turns not to predictions of economic growth, but to a household paintbrush.
 "Home Depot is wrapping this paintbrush into a great customer experience," said Mr. Steele, the director of the Merlin Center, an idea laboratory and design showroom here that advises banks on how their branches should look, work and even smell. 
 Just as Home Depot offers wallpaper, how-to seminars and free remodeling advice as well as hardware, he said banks, too, need to think of themselves as retailers of a variety of products and services. "Look, this paint roller is not that different from a mortgage," Mr. Steele said. 
Since opening in 1995, the Merlin Center has sought to be a crystal ball for bankers grappling with their industry's big shifts over the last 15 years, including deregulation and mergers and acquisitions, the rise of the Internet and the growth of investing for the masses.
Its idea is to help banks survive and grow by becoming modern retailers. Its method is to build mock-ups of entire bank branches in its warehouselike showroom to give retail bank executives an idea of how their future might look.
"These are ideas," Mr. Steele said. "We would never be so bold as to say we know the future."
Merlin's crystal ball has sometimes seemed clouded. The center, named for the magician of medieval legend, has already undergone two multimillion-dollar remodelings that suggest it was a step behind, not ahead of, trends.
The first revamping, in 1998, underscored Internet banking -- at the height of the Internet craze. But Internet banking has not caught on. The second revamping, in 2000, emphasized the need for banks to become "open financial networks" selling other companies' financial products and services. Mr. Steele, 64, said that idea was not strategically appropriate for every bank.
Now on the drawing board, for unveiling by September, is a third remodeling, at $3 million, that will emphasize what the banking industry has spent the last year rediscovering: the importance of branches. Merlin is suggesting that some banks even equip some branches with small-business services like videoconferencing rooms; tax, copyright and other legal services; and a networking coffee bar.
The Merlin Center is part of the John Ryan Company, a privately owned financial-services merchandising firm that is based in Minneapolis and has offices in London and Madrid.
John Ryan made its name in the 1980's by designing in-store displays, brochures and promotional materials for specialty retailers like Swiss Colony, the mail-order cheese company.
Last year, nearly all of John Ryan's $50 million in revenue was from banks, said Mr. Steele, whois also vice chairman of John Ryan. He declined to disclose the company's profit. 
Mr. Steele, a former Central Intelligence Agency officer, congressman from Connecticut and bank executive, also declined to discuss Merlin's current or past clients in detail, citing client confidentiality and a need to keep proprietary information from rivals, like Willey Brothers, a financial merchandising firm in Rochester, N.H.
Some banks, like Washington Mutual and Wells Fargo, have their own design departments.
Like a Parisian couturier's outlandish creations, which draw cheers on the runways but are toned down for the stores, the Merlin Center's boldest ideas tend to be praised by bankers, but used sparingly.
The Fleet Financial Group, for example, used Merlin's one-stop-shopping idea to integrate its banking, Quick & Reilly brokerage service, mortgage and other services in 5 of its 1,500 branches in the late 1990's. The moves helped Fleet more than double the number of financial products sold to customers at the branches, said Kevin C. Barrett, a Fleet vice president for global services and cash management who worked in the bank's retail unit at the time.
MERLIN did similar projects for institutions ranging from Bank of America, which has the most branches of any bank in the country, to Centura Bank, which operates 250 branches from its headquarters in Rocky Mount, N.C.
Merlin has 25 clients, 20 of them overseas, including Deutsche Bank, Abbey National of Britain and Banco Portugues do Atlantico, Mr. Steele said. Most spend $1 million, on average, he said.
While many bankers praise the Merlin Center's inventiveness, some say its vision is a tough sell amid a weak economy. To remodel just one branch with all the technology featured in Merlin's showcase branch -- including plasma screens to display price and rate information, and "Get Smart"-style soundproof cones that permit private conversations in public spaces -- costs at least $250,000. The center does not sell furnishings or technology.
"Merlin can overwhelm people," said Bruce Wheeler, who is in charge of Fleet's New Jersey operations. "It's very innovative, but there's an awful lot to digest, and you have to pick and choose what to incorporate."
No banks, for example, adopted an earlier Merlin idea to flood branches with the scent of freshly baked cookies. The center has also scrapped the idea of posting interest rates on electronic displays like those used to announce flight departures and arrivals in airports. And it no longer recommends that banks produce television programs to pitch products to customers waiting in line.
More strikingly, Mr. Steele forecasts that the emphasis on one-stop shopping will disappear. "The mistake is in thinking that you can get the customer to do all of his shopping there," he said. "You just want him to do more of his shopping there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert H. Steele, director of the Merlin Center, a consumer banking idea lab in Stamford, Conn., at its "tech bar," above, and at its home mortgage and loan module. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNET BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); MERGERS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (53%) BANKS AND BANKING; BANK BRANCHING; INTERIOR DESIGN; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); CHEESE CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MERLIN CENTER 

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%)

PERSON: BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003



253 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
The Ascent of the Software Civilization

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
TECHNOLOGY euphoria was in the air and stock prices were stratospheric. The shares of some software and computer services companies jumped a hundredfold in a few years. "Never before has the stock market shown quite so much enthusiasm about an industry," a writer for Fortune magazine observed.
 The year was 1968. 
 History may provide no sure guide to the future, but it does offer context and insight for the present. And, given the proper twist, history glimmers with a certain knowing humor. In his incisive, panoramic book, "From Airline Reservations to Sonic the Hedgehog: A History of the Software Industry" (MIT Press, $29.95), Martin Campbell-Kelly delivers all three -- context, insight, even occasional humor. His treatment of the similarity in the computer mania of the late 1960's and the Internet bubble of the late 1990's is one many telling observations.
Mr. Campbell-Kelly's book is not for everyone. He is an instructor in computer science at the University of Warwick in England and is a professional historian. His is not a book of insider gossip or of recreated scenes of clashing egos and executive tirades -- the stuff of so many business books. Instead, it is the product of his reading and distilling of books, professional journals, magazine and newspaper articles and historical archives over the last four decades.
The result is a sweeping survey of the software business since the early 1950's, its evolving structure, economics and marketing. The product and company names are so numerous that, at times, they seem to race by in a blur -- Cincom, Cullinane, Panosophic, Cytation, Famicom, Xenix, Comshare, Syncsort, SuperWriter, MacNeal-Schwendler and hundreds more. The book is a ready reference for any misguided soul who wants to create a computer trivia game.
Yet, along the way, Mr. Campbell-Kelly pauses for longer passages on subjects ranging from the role of the government's SAGE air defense-and-surveillance system to the decision by I.B.M. in 1969 to "unbundle" hardware and software sales. The unbundling was "a turning point," the author says, because it ensured a sizable software industry separate from hardware.
Mr. Campbell-Kelly gives the United States government credit for creating a market for programmers in the 1950's and early 1960's with SAGE, a name derived from "semiautomatic ground environment." About $150 million was spent on its software, and thousands of programmers were trained to work on the project -- a veritable "university for programmers." Its alumni went off to populate corporate data centers and to start companies elsewhere. SAGE also tackled a host of technical problems in real-time transaction processing that eased the way for I.B.M.'s development of the Sabre online reservations system, called "the Kid's SAGE," for American Airlines.
Time and again, the book shows that what seems new in the software industry in fact echoes the past. The engineers who used software formed user groups starting in the 1950's with SHARE, whose members came from companies that used I.B.M. 704 computers. The group's name, though capitalized, was not an acronym. It was what the group did; it shared programs and expertise to help drive down programming costs.
This was when software was treated as a marketing cost of hardware instead of as a stand-alone product. But, as the author writes, "one of the abiding legacies of the user groups was the perception of software as a free good." In their attitude and behavior, the user groups were very similar to those engaged in today's open-source software projects like GNU Linux, an operating system that is distributed free and is steadily improved and debugged by a network of programmers.
IN the late 1960's and early 70's, there was great excitement about -- and investment in -- the notion of computing as a utility-like service that could be delivered to offices and homes to solve all manner of problems. The idea flopped because it proved to be too complex a challenge to write the software needed to distribute computing as a service from a central time-shared machine to many users. Besides, microcomputers, later called personal computers, were about to arrive, putting affordable computing on desktops thanks to the miracle of the microprocessor.
Today, the utility concept is making a comeback. This time, the industry is betting that 30 years of advances in software, hardware and networking can deliver utility computing. I.B.M. is promoting "on demand" computing, and Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and others have similar offerings. Companies like Salesforce.com are offering software as a service in an emerging market for so-called application service providers, or A.S.P.'s. "Because the concept was never fully tested in the 1970's," Mr. Campbell-Kelly writes, "history has few lessons to offer the A.S.P. industry." Well, the A.S.P. start-ups certainly hope so.
As software became a product in its own right, marketing became more important. In the fledgling personal computer industry, some of the tactics were particularly inventive. In 1980, George Tate, a former electronics industry salesman, began marketing a database program he named dBase II. There was no "I," but "II" suggested a second, improved product. This ploy was not uncommon. But in 1983, Mr. Tate took the more imaginative leap, renaming his company Ashton-Tate.
"There was no Ashton," the author writes, "but it was considered a euphonious and high-sounding name."
Mr. Campbell-Kelly argues convincingly that Microsoft's stature in the software industry as a whole tends to be overstated. After all, he notes, Microsoft dominates only about 10 percent of the industry, while it has no such sway over large portions of the software business like corporate software, software contractors and consultants.
"If this book serves no other purpose," he writes, "I hope it will serve as a corrective to the common misconception that Microsoft is the center of the software universe around which all else revolves."
Mr. Campbell-Kelly is dismissive of the federal antitrust suit filed in 1998. "Exactly why the action was brought remains a mystery," he writes. He is fastidious with footnotes, but there are none near that sentence. It's his opinion, period.
He may not understand the Microsoft antitrust suit, but he lucidly analyzes Microsoft's mastery of using software and business acumen to build a lucrative technology platform. In Microsoft's case, of course, the technology platform is the Windows operating system. The company encouraged and helped software developers write programs that run on the Microsoft platform, increasing the value of Windows and prompting even more applications to be written on top of Windows. Economists call this commercial snowball "network effects."
It is nothing new, really. I.B.M., as Mr. Campbell-Kelly explains, did the same thing with its operating system for the I.B.M. 360 mainframe and follow-on products.
And Sony, in video game consoles, deftly used software to build its technology platform and a thriving ecosystem of game developers supporting its PlayStation platform. Once Sony mastered the economics of software, Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog never had a chance.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WRITERS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: CAMPBELL-KELLY, MARTIN; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: FROM AIRLINE RESEVATIONS TO SONIC THE HEDGEHOG (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



254 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2291 words

HEADLINE: TALKING MONEY WITH: TIKI AND RONDE BARBER; 
Atop Their Game, Ahead of the Market

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
IT was 1996, long before Ronde and Tiki Barber had become high-octane National Football League stars whose success and style would usher them into the glamorous worlds of money and media.
 The brothers -- identical twins -- were still seniors at the University of Virginia. They had not even hired an agent to negotiate the contracts that would soon make Ronde the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' star cornerback and Tiki the star running back for the New York Giants. Super Bowl XXXVII, in which Ronde's dazzling defensive plays helped lead the Buccaneers to victory, wasn't even a glimmer. 
 Yet the young men, who needed scholarships for college, hired a financial adviser to help them prepare for the riches they are now reaping. 
"I had my financial adviser before I had any other adviser," recalled Tiki Barber, the soft-spoken one who takes more interest in their investments. "I hate to be critical of my peers, but I think a lot of them just let their football agents handle their money as well." 
Through a friend, the Barbers and their mother, Geraldine, met Charles Banks, a partner at CSI Investments, which handles the assets of celebrities like the singer Alanis Morissette and the basketball player Kevin Garnett. Within days, the brothers had engaged Mr. Banks.
The Barber twins, now 27, have strong views about money -- and much to gain, or lose, from the management of it. In 2001, Tiki Barber signed a $25.5 million six-year deal with the Giants with a $7 million guarantee up front. That same year, Ronde Barber signed an $18.5 million six-year deal with the Buccaneers with a $2.5 million guarantee.
"It is counterintuitive to let an agent hire a financial manager," Tiki said during a lengthy interview at the Manhattan cooperative he shares with his wife, Ginny; their 7-month-old son, Atiim Kiambu; and Ginny's parents. Dressed in slacks and a black T-shirt and stretched out on the living room sofa with his son on his knee, he continued: "If the guy messes up, he is not going to tell you. He is going to tell your agent, so you have no checks and balances. I wanted to be sure I had a football guy, a marketing guy and a money guy -- three different people."
The Barber twins seem to have inherited their financial sense: their mother, now 50, graduated from Virginia Tech with a degree in business. She divorced their father when they were 4 and supported them by working 12-hour days doing a wide variety of jobs. "She is our mentor," Tiki said. "When we went off to college, she went back and got her M.B.A. with straight A's."
That made things easier for Mr. Banks, who has managed their money, in separate accounts, ever since. With the stock market so depressed, the twins now have about 65 percent of their money in bonds and cash, about 25 percent in stocks and the balance in private equity and real estate. Their portfolios, which are generally the same, have averaged a gain of about 3.5 percent a year the last four years -- a period when the stock market had one year of big gains and three years of declines. Their return included a tiny gain of about 1 percent last year. 
Mr. Banks recalled his first meeting with the twins, which took place over drinks at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Washington. "Their biggest concern was paying for the draft, because that costs money," he said. Many players, for example, hire trainers and nutritionists to improve their performance, thus raising their profiles for the N.F.L. draft.
"A lot of agents lend the players money," Mr. Banks said. "The kids borrow too much. They spend too much. They think they're Bill Gates, but they don't have the money to live like that."
To Mr. Banks, the Barbers were unusual clients. "They understood it was a once-in-a-lifetime chance, and they weren't going to squander the money on jewelry or buying friends first-class tickets," he said. 
Ronde Barber confirms the feeling. "We were both commerce majors, so we knew what he was talking about," he said in an interview. "We wanted to get the financial stuff out of the way first."
Football players are vulnerable to financial problems because of the nature of their contracts. If a team decides to cut a player, he loses his salary for the remaining years; the salaries of basketball and baseball players are guaranteed, even if they are cut from their teams.
"Mr. Banks is always saying, 'Keep your eye on the big numbers -- $10 million,' " Tiki said. "If you have that and you don't want to work a day in your life, you can do it." 
Mr. Banks has also encouraged the Barbers to live off the income from their work off the field. "Tiki doesn't touch his Paragraph 5 money," said Ronde, referring to the section in football contracts that states the size of the annual salary. "I'm getting there."
Tiki has so far accumulated about $7 million, while Ronde has about $3 million. That's because Tiki's contract is larger and he makes more commercials and corporate appearances, meeting with employees or customers for companies like Footlocker. He was also the sports anchor on "CBS 2 News This Morning" in New York from 1999 to 2001. 
Because Tampa is a smaller market, Ronde, who has his home there, has drawn less attention. But the Super Bowl victory is closing the gap. Demand has grown recently for Ronde from companies like Reebok, for which he is shooting a print advertisement, and Anheuser-Busch, where he recently made an appearance before employees.
A commercial for Visa cards featuring the twins, first broadcast last October, has underscored their marketing appeal. "The commercial is huge," Tiki said. "Half the people looked at it, and they didn't even know I am a twin." 
The brothers, who grew up in Roanoke, Va., and shared a room until their junior year in college, are quietly competitive about their accomplishments. "I still make more money than him," Tiki said of Ronde. "But he has the Super Bowl, and I don't. So what do you want -- the money or the Super Bowl?"
Tiki covets both, of course. "I don't want them to say, 'He was a great guy, but he didn't win a championship,' " he said. "That is what the focus is now: winning a championship."
Ronde, smiling broadly at the thought, knows that his victory is killing his brother. "Isn't it though?" he says. "He's got to deal with it.
"It is the ultimate success, but in the long run, it is just a game," he added, noting that the championship had not changed their relationship.
The competition goes the other way, too. Last year, it seemed to Ronde, who often talks by phone with his brother, that "Tiki was doing something every day; I would call, and he was always going here and there."
So Ronde, who married two years ago and is expecting a second child, hired Mark Lepselter, whose firm, Maxximum Marketing, was already working for his brother. 
The twins differ a bit in style. Ronde, for example, recalled the day he flipped on CNN to see his twin on the floor of the American Stock Exchange, talking about Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. "It was something about interest rates and what you might want to do with your money," he remembered.
When Ronde was filmed at the exchange, he said, "it was an appearance; they didn't ask me for any financial advice." 
Still, the two are clearly focused on accumulating capital. When they went pro, they set up a conservative line of credit with banks for the draft, rather than borrowing money from a football agent. 
"They didn't want to go out there and get hammered in practice and not have any money at the end of the day," Mr. Banks said.
Although Ronde can seem the more laid back of the two, their football agent, Ethan Lock, said he had always remembered Ronde's reaction when he was going into his fourth N.F.L. year. After the third year, the Buccaneers had the right to offer Ronde a one-year contract at a fixed price. "I said to Ronde: 'Should I push for a long-term deal?' " Mr. Lock recalled asking.
Ronde could have turned it down and negotiated a long-term contract at that point, but he would have received less than the $18.5 million he ultimately got. Ronde said: "No, I would rather wait. I am not going to take something that is below my value. I can do a lot of other things. If I don't play football, I am going to be successful anyway."
Tiki, too, has a long-term view. "Football is awesome because I think I raised the average starting salary in my business class," he said. "Hopefully, I will make history playing football, but I am going to be done by the time I am 31." 
They clearly learned to think ahead from their mother, who turned down a scholarship in home economics from Virginia Tech because she was determined to major in business. After she and her husband, James, a college football star, were divorced, she often worked long hours at jobs like assistant executive director for finance at the Virginia Skyline Council of the Girl Scouts. At night, she transcribed legal documents for insurance companies.
"We lived in a town-house-type apartment," Tiki said. "It was middle class. She didn't want us to be in the inner city where the low-income housing was. She wanted us to have as normal a life as she could buy.
"We had lots of friends," he continued. "By the time we were 12 or 13, we could stay on our own. We had each other to stay out of trouble."
MRS. BARBER taught them about money when they were youngsters. "I can remember when the kids wanted stuff they couldn't afford," she said in a telephone interview from her home in Roanoke. "I would say, 'Here is my paycheck. Here are the things I have to pay for: the rent, car insurance. Whatever is left, you can have.' They saw early that you can't get your paycheck and just go out and have fun." 
But Ronde said he never had a steady after-school job: "My Mom never made us feel like we were struggling. She made sacrifices. Obviously, we realize it now, after the fact."
Mrs. Barber said she believed that getting good grades was her sons' main job. "I did not want them to pay for the choice I made in getting a divorce," she said. "It was nothing they asked for, and nothing they deserved."
She said she was prepared to take on all kinds of student loans. "I was going to borrow whatever I needed to get them through college," she said, "as long as they had good grades." 
The twins got the message. Tiki was a valedictorian in high school, and both were named academic all-Americans at Virginia. 
Mrs. Barber missed only one game during her sons' high school years and just two in college. Once, in 1996, when she had a double mastectomy on a Monday, she had a friend drive her from Roanoke to Charlottesville that Saturday to watch them play. 
With her sons in college, she dealt with her empty nest by earning that M.B.A. at Averett University. She is now one of two assistant finance directors for Roanoke County. 
When the twins signed their rookie contracts, including a $700,000 signing bonus for Tiki and $400,000 for Ronde, they bought Ms. Barber a Mercedes.
The young men also bought her a new home in 1997 and, on her 50th birthday in January of this year, they gave her a Corvette.
AFTER college, for the first time, the twins' lifestyles diverged. Ronde loved Tampa. Tiki loved the pace of Manhattan. Tiki remembers Ronde saying, " 'Dude, don't you love it down here?' and I'm like, 'What in the hell do you do here?' " 
Their approach to business, however, has remained similar. They have kept the same team of advisers for seven years, which Mr. Lock says is somewhat unusual. "More people change their agents than keep them," he said.
In their first four years as pros, both men were earning good money. Ronde's contract, including his signing bonus, was just over $1 million. Aside from his bonus, Tiki's salary rose to $450,000 in the fourth year from $325,000 in his first year.
"In the grand scheme of football, you are just a working stiff," Tiki said. "You are not set for life. I live in a three-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side. The cost of living is high here."
Initially, Tiki's portfolio was more aggressive because he was more interested in stocks, and his larger advance let him put money in some private equity deals. But the decline in the market has left the brothers' asset allocations roughly the same -- with only about 25 percent in stocks, according to Mr. Banks. Among the equity holdings are General Electric and Procter & Gamble.
Though their returns have dwindled from about 10.5 percent in 1999 to about 1 percent a year the last three years, Tiki said he was not worried. "I am a long-term investor," he said. "And basically in the last year and a half since I got my money, there has been no clarity in the world, so you don't really know what you want to do. So we have been very conservative."
Tiki generally talks directly with Mr. Banks, sometimes as often as once a week. Ginny takes care of the household expenses. "If I left the household bills for him, we wouldn't have any electricity," she said.
Ronde said that before his marriage in 2001, "I definitely took a lot of advice from Tiki."
"I don't think I was capable enough, confident enough to do it by myself," he added.
That changed after his marriage. "At one point, I was trying to handle everything, and my wife, Claudia, was like, 'Tell me about this and tell me about that,' and I was like, 'Why don't you just talk to them yourself?' "
Now, he said: "Claudia handles everything from CSI these days. I probably talk to them about five times a year, and Claudia talks to them once a week. I obviously have the final say."
Even though the twins handle their investment business separately, when it comes to the business of football, there is no disagreement. 
Like Tiki, Ronde becomes immersed in contract issues.
"My job is to play football," he said. "I handle those things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tiki Barber, left, and his identical twin, Ronde, are winners between the lines in the National Football League and on the bottom line as investors. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ronde and Tiki Barber won a Pee Wee Super Bowl, top. Then it was on to the University of Virginia, above left, where they posed with their mother, Geraldine. This year, Ronde won the grown-up Super Bowl. (Getty Images); At just under a year, the Barber twins, above, wore matching outfits. Now 27, they wear different football jerseys but use the same financial adviser, Charles Banks of CSI Investments. (Photographs courtesy of Geraldine Barber)(pg. 11) Chart: "Twin Stars on the Field"After playing at the University of Virginia, Tiki and Ronde Barber have moved on to very successful careers in the National Football League. Here are their college and N.F.L. highlights. Tiki Barber N.F.L.Running back, drafted in 1997 in the second round by the New York Giants; led N.F.C. in total yards from scrimmage last season Career statisticsYARDS RUSHING: 4,193RUSHING TOUCHDOWNS: 26YARDS RECEIVING: 3,149RECEIVING TOUCHDOWNS: 7 COLLEGEHolds University of Virginia records for most rushing attempts and most rushing yards Career statisticsYARDS RUSHING: 3,389TOTAL ALL-PURPOSE YARDS: 4,883 CURRENT CONTRACT: $25.5 million over six years, signed in 2001 Ronde Barber N.F.L. Cornerback, drafted in 1997 in the third round by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers; named to Pro Bowl in 2001; helped his team win Super Bowl this year Career statisticsINTERCEPTIONS: 18TACKLES: 370QUARTERBACK SACKS: 13.5FUMBLES FORCED: 4 COLLEGEThree-time All-Atlantic Coast Conference selection; tied for third in interceptions at Virginia Career statisticsINTERCEPTIONS: 15TACKLES: 154 CURRENT CONTRACT: $18.5 million over six years, signed in 2001 (Sources: NFL.com; ESPN)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BASKETBALL (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%) FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PERSONAL FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (93%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (59%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (55%) BARBER, TIKI; BARBER, RONDE; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



255 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
In Japan, Foreigners Inspire Wave of Spinoffs

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: HAMAMATSU, Japan 

 BODY:
KEIICHI MAEJIMA and John Breckenridge are an unlikely pair. Mr. Maejima is an engineer with strong hands, a stocky build and a lime-green factory smock. Mr. Breckenridge, by contrast, is a quintessential banker: tall, trim and assured in his smart blue suit.
 If Japan has any hope of pulling itself out of its decade-long downturn, the two worlds these men inhabit must collide more often. 
 In their unlikely alliance, Mr. Maejima, president of a midsize maker of car parts called the Rhythm Corporation, now shares a boardroom with Mr. Breckenridge, a managing director at J. P. Morgan Partners, the private equity fund that bought the company from Nissan Motor in August 2002. Unthinkable in Japan just five years ago, the arrangement is one of a growing number of management buyouts, increasingly financed by foreign investors. 
The market for these spinoffs, in which outside investors help managers buy their own company, first took off in the United States in the 1980's and spread to Britain and Europe in the 1990's. It was slow to catchon in Japan, where lenient bankers, a lack of shareholder scrutiny and a rigid corporate code have let parent companies keep dozens and sometimes hundreds of unprofitable subsidiaries on their books.
But as corporate Japan splinters under the weight of too many loans, factories and workers, executives from all industries are now looking to cast off subsidiaries. Mergers are common, especially when they preserve jobs, a priority for managers here.
For businesses with promise, though, Nissan, NEC, Daiei and others are turning to private equity funds that are willing to buy underperforming subsidiaries and improve them. In the process, these large corporations are breaking the longstanding bonds between parent company and subsidiary that formed the bedrock of Japan's post-war industrial system.
"Many Japanese companies are on the edge," said Yoshihiro Sakai, a senior adviser to Nomura Holding America who helps arrange management buyouts. "The funds are a kind of rescue boat."
Though the market for management buyouts in the United States is more than 20 times larger than Japan's, the number of Japanese deals is growing. In 2002, 39 transactions were completed, compared with 22 the previous year, according to the Mitsubishi Research Institute and the ChuoAoyama Audit Corporation. The size of the deals dipped to 107 billion yen, or $893 million, from 116 billion yen in 2001 as more small companies were spun off. But the number of deals and the total value should double this year, analysts said.
The trend has political implications. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has pledged to double the amount of foreign investment in Japan by 2008, because the country's weak banks and deeply indebted government are unable to provide all the capital needed to revive the economy.
Finding the right candidates and assessing their prospects are difficult. Subsidiaries of big corporations are hard to value because much of their operations and accounting is blurred with that of their parent companies. And buyout specialists, especially foreign firms, are small and can concentrate on only a few companies at a time.
Despite the hardships, about 50 private equity funds have set up shop in Japan. Some have found it a difficult place to do business, particularly foreigners who are unprepared for the slow and opaque way that business is conducted here. The 3i Group of Britain has decided to quit the market, and many other foreign operators have not completed a deal in a year.
While some American investment funds, like J. P. Morgan Partners and Ripplewood Holdings, are going it alone, others, like the Carlyle Group, have teamed up with Japanese partners to gain local knowledge and to bolster their image. In particular, they say that they are not out to cut payrolls and that they typically hold on to their investments for three or more years.
The difference, though, is lost on the man on the street. The phrase "vulture fund" is now part of the lexicon here and is used liberally in the news media to tar any foreign investor who buys Japanese assets, regardless of what they do with them. The fears, fueled by nationalist lawmakers, are reminiscent of how Americans reacted when Japanese investors bought American real estate like Rockefeller Center and the golf course at Pebble Beach, Calif., in the 1980's and early 90's.
"People tend to mix it all up," said Motoya Kitamura, a consultant at Mitsubishi Research. Regardless of their intentions, he said, "the buyout funds are enhancing the view that all foreigners are vultures."
Mr. Maejima, 58, held many of thosesame fears. He worked for Rhythm's parent, Nissan Motor, for three decades before being transferred to the parts maker in 2000.
Along with some members of the executive committee and leaders of the labor union, he protested when Nissan executives told him to consider a foreign buyer. Japanese managers from J. P. Morgan overcame the resistance by explaining that they had no plans to fire workers and would not tinker with the day-to-day running of the company. They acknowledged that they had to pay their own investors a profit but said that they were in no hurry to do so. Instead, they wanted to map long-term strategies.
Mr. Maejima and Rhythm's chief financial officer, Katsuo Kitamura, learned from executives at the Mando Corporation, an auto parts maker in South Korea that J. P. Morgan bought in 1999, that the company was doing well and that J. P. Morgan had kept its promises.
ALTHOUGH Nissan was under orders from its chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, to sell its subsidiaries to strengthen its balance sheet and could have pushed Rhythm to work with the highest bidder, it did not want to alienate the company. Nissan, like Rhythm, also wanted to ensure that few jobs were lost.
"At the end of the day, buyouts are all about people and jobs, and you have to adapt every part of the buyout strategy to that," said Mark Mason, who tracks alternative investments at the Center on Japanese Economy and Business at Columbia University.
Still, Kuniaki Sasaki, the senior vice president at Nissan charged with selling off subsidiaries, also had to consider Nissan's need for profits. In short, he needed someone willing to pay a fair price for the company but to leave it largely alone. While other managers would have chosen a Japanese fund, Mr. Sasaki reckoned that J. P. Morgan was a safer bet because its connections could lead to more business overseas.
"At first, Maejima said, 'No, don't sell us to a fund,' " Mr. Sasaki recalled. "Many Japanese think this way. It's one of their prejudices. But we have a lot of experience with the funds and recognize their benefits. Maejima eventually said, 'Whatever is better for Nissan is better for Rhythm,' so at the end of the day, he said, 'Please conclude the deal with J. P. Morgan.' "
Nissan netted about 5 billion yen, or $42 million, from the sale, helping it to meet some of its debt-reduction targets ahead of schedule. And Rhythm has thrived. Its sales are expected to jump 15 percent, to 27 billion yen, in the year that ends on March 31.
Mr. Breckenridge and his associate, John D. Lewis, are introducing cash flow accounting methods to better predict future earnings. They are also investing in new computer systems and in management software.
Free from the pressure to please Nissan executives in Tokyo, Rhythm is also rewriting its budget. In past years, Nissan would limit capital spending to 5 percent of sales, a rigid formula that ignored the company's needs and made Rhythm executives passive. Now, J. P. Morgan will sign off on new investments as long as Rhythm can show how they will generate a return.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at the Rhythm Corporation in Hamamatsu, Japan, inspect auto parts, above. Keiichi Maejima, foreground at left, president of Rhythm, and John Breckenridge became unlikely partners after Mr. Breckenridge's firm, J. P. Morgan Partners, bought Rhythm from Nissan Motor. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Polaris for The New York Times) Chart: "More (if Smaller) Deals"Total value of management buyout deals in Japan. Graph measures value in millions of yen. '91: 1'92: 0'93: 0'94: 0'95: 2'96: 1'97: 0'98: 9'99: 19'00: 11'01: 22'02: 39 (Sources: Mitsubishi Research Institute; ChuoAoyama Audit Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MERGERS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) VENTURE CAPITAL; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: RHYTHM CORP (71%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%); NOMURA HOLDING AMERICA INC (53%); MITSUBISHI RESEARCH INSTITUTE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (NSANY); J.P. MORGAN PARTNERS; RHYTHM CORPORATION 

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (56%); 3636 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (52%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



256 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Peter J. Wilby; 
Salomon Brothers High Yield Bond Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
INVESTMENT grade bonds now account for about 12 percent of the $587 million Salomon Brothers High Yield Bond fund -- a portfolio that typically owns no such high-rated bonds, says its manager, Peter J. Wilby.
 He bought those bonds after the crashes of Enron and WorldCom last year. "Other bond managers were running for the exits," Mr. Wilby said, "and that created big opportunities for us." 
 The overall credit quality of the portfolio's 200 issuers averages a rating of double-B from Standard & Poor's. (Junk bonds are those rated below triple-B.) The portfolio contains big chunks of triple-B bonds as well as single-B bonds bought in recent months. 
The fund's trailing 12-month yield is 9.54 percent, compared with 8.94 percent, on average, for high-yield bonds tracked by Morningstar Inc.
The fund's duration, a measure of interest-rate sensitivity, is 4.5 years, mirroring the Salomon Smith Barney High Yield Market index, he said, "so it has junk bonds' typical sensitivity to interest rates."
But Mr. Wilby said that as interest rates rose, an improving economy would reduce credit risk, "allowing a high-yield fund to do quite well in that environment."
The fund returned 1.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through February and adjusted for its front-end load, or sales charge, of 4.75 percent. That puts it in the top 16 percent of all high-yield bond funds, which lost 2.3 percent a year, on average, according to Morningstar. The fund returned 3.1 percent in the 12 months through February, adjusted for the load, compared with 0.3 percent for its group.(The fund's current 4.5 percent load is not yet part of Morningstar's database.)
Mr. Wilby, 44, is a managing director of Salomon Brothers Asset Management, the fund's adviser.
The fund can buy corporate or government bonds, typically denominated in dollars, anywhere in the world. Emerging-markets debt, which can account for up to 35 percent of assets, is now about 20 percent, Mr. Wilby said, because he is cautious about overseas risks.
The allocation is based on his 12-month forecast of credit quality.
"Even though the U.S. economy is sluggish," he said, "I see credit quality improving because companies have been punished for carrying too much debt and have spent the last year cleaning up their balance sheets."
Other factors should also contribute to a strong high-yield market, he said. As for corporate accounting scandals, the worst should be over, he said, and a war with Iraq has already been factored into the market.
The fund is about 5 percentage points overweight in the cable and media industries, compared with the Salomon Smith Barney High Yield Market index, Mr. Wilby said, because of his aggressive buying of bonds in these sectors during their meltdown last summer.
Mr. Wilby works with eight sector analysts to pick individual issuers. Over all, he said, he tends to avoid rapid-growth companies with no cash flow. Currently, he owns issues like AT&T and Sprint, as well as other beaten-down bonds. He also looks for above-average expected 12-month returns, based on an issue's price and yield.
He visits companies' executives, too. "We want to see that management is competent," he said, "and not so pro-shareholder that they don't understand their fiduciary duty to creditors as well."
He sells bonds when his industry or credit-quality outlook changes or an issuer's credit quality weakens.
In July, Mr. Wilby bought 9.87 percent subordinated debt due in February 2013 and issued by Cablevision Systems, the cable operator. He paid $67 for each $100 of face value. The bonds now trade at $103.50; they are rated B+ by Standard & Poor's. 
Mr. Wilby said the bond's price did not reflect "what we believe to be the true value of the assets." The company generates cash flow, he said, and its core business is solid. 
IN August, he bought a 7.25 percent coupon bond due in 2011 and issued by Ford Motor Credit. He paid $92.31 for each $100 in face value of the bonds, which now trade at $93.00. They are rated triple-B by Standard & Poor's.
The biggest bond issuers were under the most selling pressure last spring, Mr. Wilby said, as bond investors reduced their holdings of large-capitalization, investment-grade bonds to diversify their portfolios. "Ford started trading like a cheap high-yield bond," he said, partly because investors exaggerated what they saw as Ford's competitive disadvantage to other automakers.
In July, Mr. Wilby bought 12 percent coupon bonds issued by the Brazilian government and maturing in April 2010. "The government was under a lot of pressure" at the time, he said, as investors feared that the Workers' Party candidate for president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, "would not be market friendly" if elected. But Mr. Wilby said he thought that those fears were exaggerated.
Market confidence has improved, he added, after Mr. da Silva's victory in October. The bonds, for which he paid $63.50 for each $100 in face value, now trade at $76.75.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter J. Wilby says companies "have been punished for carrying too much debt and have spent the last year cleaning up their balance sheets." (Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times) Chart: "Salomon Brothers High Yield Bond" Category: High-yield bondNet assets: $587 millionInception: February 1995Manager: Peter J. Wilby since inceptionMinimum purchase: $250 ($50 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 86%3-year load-adjusted annualized return through February (Class A shares): +1.7%Category average: -2.3% Sector breakdownCable/media: 14%Telecommunications: 10%Health care: 8%Energy: 8%Gambling/entertainment: 7%Other: 53% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: 4.75%*Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.28% *The fund's current 4.5% load is not yet part of Morningstars database. (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%); SCANDALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS ASSET MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; WILBY, PETER J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



257 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Just War -- or a Just War? 

BYLINE:  By Jimmy Carter; Jimmy Carter, the 39th president of the United States, is chairman of the Carter Center in Atlanta and winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize.

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Profound changes have been taking place in American foreign policy, reversing consistent bipartisan commitments that for more than two centuries have earned our nation greatness. These commitments have been predicated on basic religious principles, respect for international law, and alliances that resulted in wise decisions and mutual restraint. Our apparent determination to launch a war against Iraq, without international support, is a violation of these premises.
 As a Christian and as a president who was severely provoked by international crises, I became thoroughly familiar with the principles of a just war, and it is clear that a substantially unilateral attack on Iraq does not meet these standards. This is an almost universal conviction of religious leaders, with the most notable exception of a few spokesmen of the Southern Baptist Convention who are greatly influenced by their commitment to Israel based on eschatological, or final days, theology. 
 For a war to be just, it must meet several clearly defined criteria.
The war can be waged only as a last resort, with all nonviolent options exhausted. In the case of Iraq, it is obvious that clear alternatives to war exist. These options -- previously proposed by our own leaders and approved by the United Nations -- were outlined again by the Security Council on Friday. But now, with our own national security not directly threatened and despite the overwhelming opposition of most people and governments in the world, the United States seems determined to carry out military and diplomatic action that is almost unprecedented in the history of civilized nations. The first stage of our widely publicized war plan is to launch 3,000 bombs and missiles on a relatively defenseless Iraqi population within the first few hours of an invasion, with the purpose of so damaging and demoralizing the people that they will change their obnoxious leader, who will most likely be hidden and safe during the bombardment.
The war's weapons must discriminate between combatants and noncombatants. Extensive aerial bombardment, even with precise accuracy, inevitably results in "collateral damage." Gen. Tommy R. Franks, commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf, has expressed concern about many of the military targets being near hospitals, schools, mosques and private homes.
Its violence must be proportional to the injury we have suffered. Despite Saddam Hussein's other serious crimes, American efforts to tie Iraq to the 9/11 terrorist attacks have been unconvincing.
The attackers must have legitimate authority sanctioned by the society they profess to represent. The unanimous vote of approval in the Security Council to eliminate Iraq's weapons of mass destruction can still be honored, but our announced goals are now to achieve regime change and to establish a Pax Americana in the region, perhaps occupying the ethnically divided country for as long as a decade. For these objectives, we do not have international authority. Other members of the Security Council have so far resisted the enormous economic and political influence that is being exerted from Washington, and we are faced with the possibility of either a failure to get the necessary votes or else a veto from Russia, France and China. Although Turkey may still be enticed into helping us by enormous financial rewards and partial future control of the Kurds and oil in northern Iraq, its democratic Parliament has at least added its voice to the worldwide expressions of concern.
The peace it establishes must be a clear improvement over what exists. Although there are visions of peace and democracy in Iraq, it is quite possible that the aftermath of a military invasion will destabilize the region and prompt terrorists to further jeopardize our security at home. Also, by defying overwhelming world opposition, the United States will undermine the United Nations as a viable institution for world peace.
What about America's world standing if we don't go to war after such a great deployment of military forces in the region? The heartfelt sympathy and friendship offered to America after the 9/11 attacks, even from formerly antagonistic regimes, has been largely dissipated; increasingly unilateral and domineering policies have brought international trust in our country to its lowest level in memory. American stature will surely decline further if we launch a war in clear defiance of the United Nations. But to use the presence and threat of our military power to force Iraq's compliance with all United Nations resolutions -- with war as a final option -- will enhance our status as a champion of peace and justice.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rob Hatem) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) CARTER, JIMMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (77%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



258 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Economy Can No Longer Count On the Consumer

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
FOR keeping the nation's economy alive during the last few years, American consumers ought to win a Bronze Star for valor. But there are growing signs that the soldiers are battle-weary and retreating from the field. 
 Richard D. Hastings, chief economist at Cyber Business Credit, a retail advisory firm in New York, says that consumers have already begun curtailing their spending, and that he expects them to keep cutting back in the coming months. Because corporate spending remains moribund, a retrenchment by consumers would further hobble an already limping economy. 
 With consumer debt near record highs, it would not be much of a surprise if consumers did stop buying. But they have been remarkably resistant to changing their bingeing ways. Even the devastating bear market in stocks has not shaken them.
That may soon change, Mr. Hastings said, for two reasons. First, he believes that because prices are no longer dropping for raw materials -- and are even rising for some, like oil and cotton -- shoppers may start seeing higher prices on goods. Accustomed as they are to ever-bigger bargains, and given how many cars, computers, sweaters and electronics gear they have bought in recent years, consumers may well commence a buying strike. "As prices came down, that created a bargain effect," Mr. Hastings said, "and consumers kept spending even though so much wealth was destroyed in the bear market." A strong dollar made imports cheaper as well.
Also worrisome is a shift in the source of the funds available to consumers. In the 1990's, Mr. Hastings said, consumer spending was fueled by growing wages, a secure job environment and gains in real estate and the stock market. But since mid-2000, consumer spending has been bolstered by mortgage refinancings, home equity loans and falling retail prices. None of those sources can be relied upon much longer.
"I have seen a more significant breakdown in consumer spending during the last few months," Mr. Hastings said. "While consumer spending in dollars looks O.K., when you look deeper, there are trouble signs. And that is likely to turn into lower unit volume pretty soon."
Two early warning signs of a consumer slowdown, according to Mr. Hastings, are sales at chain drugstores and a decline in growth at Wal-Mart stores open a year or more. 
Performance at chain drugstores reflects the attitudes of lower- and middle-income consumers, he explained; they are typically the first to cut their spending. A downturn began among these shoppers last spring and has accelerated. The most recent available data show sales at chain drugstores fell 3.7 percent in December, compared with the month a year earlier, 1.3 percent in January. 
The sales trend is also down at Wal-Mart. Growth at this powerhouse retailer used to run about 6 percent a month, on a comparable-store basis. Now it is averaging 2.5 percent. 
"The risk is, what else in the economy can pick up the slack if the consumer no longer participates enough?" Mr. Hastings asked. 
Certainly not businesses, which are reducing their expectations based on sluggish demand. Last Thursday, for example, Intel narrowed its sales forecast for the first quarter. In January, the company expected sales of $6.5 billion to $7 billion in the period. Now it expects sales of $6.6 billion to $6.8 billion.
State and local governments cannot help. Short of cash, they must cut their spending. Only the federal government is expansive. 
Household wealth is in decline, Mr. Hastings said, and so is the number of people employed. Consumers are finally figuring out that the only way to save money in such an environment is to stop spending. For many investors, this is a new game -- with consequences that are anything but happy.

GRAPHIC: Chart tracks year-over-year change in the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Retail Chain Store Sales index, monthly from '99 through Feb. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (84%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (62%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (63%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (63%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (63%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; HASTINGS, RICHARD D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



259 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE; 
Sixty Cents and a Dream, And a Tipsheet or Two

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
The lottery is not a game of chance.
 So believe the many New Yorkers who consult Big Red, Big Blue Daily or Big Mack to help them out. These daily publications and others, usually sold at newsstands and lottery outlets for 60 cents, are chock-full of tips and tactics for landing the big win. 
 The inside pages are filled with past results of lottery and numbers drawings, as well as sections where sources like Li'l Bro and Skeeta's Corner give their lucky digits. But the advice in these papers, which may carry greater appeal in times of economic trouble, can be murky to the uninitiated. The cover of Wednesday's Big Red showed a drawing of a man's face with a 2 plastered on the cheek, a big, bold 231 next to him, and the following advice: "BIG RED SEZ: Like Water, A Fool Will Go The Way He Is Diverted." 
 Lilly Gonzalez, a waitress in Williamsbridge, the Bronx, often uses Big Red to decide what numbers to play, although how people use the sheets is a matter of taste.
 "Some people go by the number on the face," she said, referring to the digit on Big Red's cheek, a feature of every issue. "It means you could get lucky if you play number 2. Some people believe in Skeeta's Corner. Why? I don't know."
 Asked why she thought people would spend 60 cents for seemingly random advice, she demurred. "I grew up on this," she said. "My mother used to do it."
 Big Red takes a playful approach. A recent issue featured a cartoonlike couple, Super Dude 'n' Tootsie. Super Dude, a bald man with a 7 next to his lips and a 2 by his hands, says "Baby, I Can't Wait Till the Summer Time We're Gonna' Be Looking Good." A bikini-clad Tootsie, with a large 412 to her right, replies, "You Got That Right Baby, Me and My King On The Beach."
 Viamedia, a company in East New York, Brooklyn, that publishes Big Red, also prints "You Can Hit With DePrince," a mostly handwritten sheet featuring a large photograph of the Rev. Thessalonia DePrince holding what appears to be a voodoo doll. Neither the Viamedia staff nor Mr. DePrince responded to phone messages, but his Web site says his powers come from "White Voodooism" and "other positive mystical forces." 
 The man behind Big Blue Daily, Howard Jones, said he distributes about 2,000 copies a day to New York and New Jersey from his Teaneck, N.J., shop, Pisces Printing and Publishing. A computer program that generates random numbers is the source of predictions in Big Blue, but help also comes from psychics. The publication includes sections called "The Gossipers are talking about" and "Shanna says watch these." Along with the daily publications, there are weekly and monthly ones. And then there are "dream books," booklets that link dreams with lucky numbers. According to the 2003 Lottery Bible, for example, if you dreamed about popcorn last night, your lucky numbers are 232-030-085.
 Of course, Big Red and its ilk aren't for everyone. On Wednesday, Curtis Whyte stepped into Allerton Grocery and Candy in the north Bronx and played 493 and 174. As in 49.3 and 1.74, the weight in grams and ounces of the package of Peanut M&M's that he had just bought. SETH KUGEL

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Neighborhood Report pages last Sunday about publications that give tips for lottery players misstated the circulation of one, Big Blue Daily. It distributes 12,000 to 15,000 copies daily, not 2,000.



GRAPHIC:  Photo: The advice in these papers can be murky to the uninitiated. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PUBLISHING TRADE (75%); BEACHES (68%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); HAIR LOSS (50%) LOTTERIES 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



260 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
Enchanted by Cities

BYLINE:  By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
THIS may be the most subtle plan to change the world the Ivy League has yet produced. At its center are three recent Yale graduates: Adam Gordon, Seth A. Brown and Anika Singh. 
 They have a vision for The Next American City, which happens to be the title of the quarterly magazine they just began. Let others of their generation produce the next killer computer code or breakthrough indie film, this group believes that the road to global transformation runs through the realm of -- get ready -- housing, transportation and land use policy. 
Non-wonks may scoff. But these three young thinkers -- Ms. Singh is from Queens, Mr. Gordon from South Brunswick, N.J., and Mr. Brown from Denver -- ask epic questions. Will we have more successful spaces like bustling Arthur Avenue in the Bronx and the complex outdoor plaza at Rockefeller Center, or will we have desolate spots like housing projects that are hard by major roadways and cut off from nearby neighborhoods? Will we devise more fruitful ways of relating the countryside to downtown, or will we accept ever more suburban sprawl and poverty-pocketed cities? 
 The three, who met in their Yale residential college, Branford, give such topics a thorough going over in the first issue of their magazine, which had 46 pages and an apple-green cover and featured such articles as "How New York Lost Its Accent" and "Green Building on the Site of the World Trade Center."
 "There's no one really asking the question, 'What is the future of our communities?"' Mr. Gordon contended recently at the Brasil Coffee House in Long Island City, Queens, where he was joined by Mr. Brown and Ms. Singh. One spur for their magazine is that, after decades of suburbanization, cities are reviving -- New York being a standout example and Long Island City being one of its awakening neighborhoods. 
 Ask the three how they got interested in urban and suburban planning and they reply with a kind of group answer about their college's hometown. 
 Mr. Brown: "New Haven has been tinkered with for decades by people who think they know how to solve all its problems."
 Ms. Singh: "Just driving downtown is a crash course in what to do wrong."
 Mr. Gordon: "For example, a thruway cutting off people from the waterfront." 
 Ms. Singh: "Which has happened everywhere."
 Mr. Brown: "In New York." 
 There was a pause as everyone thought about the long era during which Robert Moses barged large roads through established neighborhoods. 
 Mr. Gordon: "Robert Moses went to Yale." 
 Mr. Brown: "Class of '09." 
 The three say that if nothing else, they learned from the Moses record that complex problems cannot be solved by a gargantuan, one-size-fits-all master plan pushed through by unchecked bureaucrats. 
 "People react against you if you say you're going to create this great plan of how things are going to work for the next 50 years," said Mr. Gordon, who works for the Baltimore Regional Partnership, a nonprofit housing and environmental group. 
 "It's a classic blunder," added Mr. Brown, who works for Hudson Companies, a Manhattan developer. 
 THEIR magazine aims to chart a pragmatic third way between those who believe the free market should dictate development and those who put faith in regulation and government spending. 
 "Our goal is to become the premiere national magazine looking at how cities and suburbs have changed and how they should change," Mr. Brown said. He has no office, but he does have a "cybercollective" of about 100 people, many of them recent Yale graduates, who donate time and energy to the effort. (Parents and others chipped in $10,000 in seed money.) Mr. Brown is the publisher, Mr. Gordon the editor and Ms. Singh, a student at New York University Law School, a contributing editor. 
 Mr. Brown said the magazine should fill a niche between professional journals with useful but jargon-filled articles like "The Determinants of Agglomeration," and glossy design magazines with their four-color fetishization of the interiors of the prosperous. 
 They would rather put out nonideological versions of City Journal, a monthly published by the conservative Manhattan Institute, and of the liberal City Limits, a news magazine about New York urban affairs. Such magazines can have surprisingly great impact. City Journal is credited with giving force in the 90's to arguments for tax cuts and welfare restrictions, policies later adopted by a close reader, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 At $9 for a single copy, The Next American City is not yet ready to compete with Teen People. But Mr. Brown said about 350 people had taken out $29 yearly subscriptions -- many of them leaders who decide where the concrete is poured -- and he hopes to get the magazine on the newsstand by its third issue. Mr. Brown is also applying for foundation money. (To subscribe, you can log on to www.americancity.org.)
 He and his classmates might be called Garvinites. He and Mr. Gordon took a course at Yale taught by Prof. Alexander Garvin that famously conveys the notion that government can set off economic development by investing in public spaces. Build a Central Park and you'll produce great economic value in the many surrounding blocks. Or build a Grand Central Terminal and businesses will line up to catch the workers pouring off its trains. 
 The three students want their magazine to be the place where people hash out such strategies. For them, the real action in the design competition for the trade center site was not signature buildings or a memorial but how things look at street level. Will the sidewalks be inviting? Where will the trees go? 
 As to the chosen project, by Daniel Libeskind, Mr. Gordon said, "The tourists will be there on the street, but the question is whether the design is going to encourage the people who work in the new buildings to go out and get something to eat or take the elevator to the basement and catch the train home."
 Paul Goldberger, architecture critic for The New Yorker, said he was impressed by the magazine. "It's very clear they were paying attention" to Mr. Garvin, he said. He should know; he took the class in the early 70's. 
 Mr. Garvin himself said he approved of his students' endeavor. "It's exciting that they have decided to raise a public dialogue on these issues," he said. He went on to compare them to Henry R. Luce and Briton Hadden, graduates from the class of 1920 who founded their own publication in New York at an early age. 
 "The last time a group of Yalies decided to do something like this," he said, "we got Time magazine."

EXCERPT
A Sound Soon Past

In an essay in the premiere issue of The Next American City, Daniel Brook recalled the day in 2000 that a co-worker from Oklahoma, a man who had earned a degree in urban studies from Columbia two years before, asked an unexpected question about a voice on the intercom.
"Package fuh Murray. Murray comeah to the reception area and get yuh package!"
"What kind of accent is that?" asked my Okie colleague.
I chuckled, "Yeah, thats a nice thick one, isnt it."
As the child of a Brooklynite and an Alabamian, I never have had much of a New York accent. I always figured that America's two strongest regional accents canceled each other out.
"No really, what kind of accent is that? Ive never heard anything like it," my coworker persisted.
I gave him a puzzled look and replied, "Um, thats a New York accent." I thought being on West 34th Street in the heart of Manhattan might have tipped him off.
And then it hit me. If you moved to New York City in 1998 and got a degree from its most prestigious university studying, of all things, urbanism, it is plausible that you might not be able to identify a New York accent. Surely my co-worker had come in contact with a New York accent before, but it takes a critical mass of accented individuals for a newcomer to attribute it to the city as a whole. Had he attended Columbia in years past, it would be likely that his professor, his landlord, his grocer and his local cop would have all shared the same accent. By 1998, this was no longer the case.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The earnest founders of The Next American City, a new quarterly: Adam Gordon, editor (seated); Anika Singh, contributing editor, and Seth A. Brown, publisher. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%) URBAN AREAS; SUBURBS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; MAGAZINES 

ORGANIZATION: NEXT AMERICAN CITY, THE (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: GORDON, ADAM; BROWN, SETH A; SINGH, ANIKA; O'GRADY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



261 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK OBSERVED; 
Small-Time Crooks

BYLINE:  By RICHARD B. WOODWARD; Richard B. Woodward is a writer and documentary maker in New York.

 BODY:
THE Vintage Weapons and Notorious Criminals Room at the New York City Police Museum near Hanover Square is a crowd-pleaser. Behind the plexiglass in a central case hang an array of captured revolvers, knives, clubs, hand grenades, the Thompson submachine gun used by a member of Al Capone's gang to bump off Frankie Yale and a collection of lock picks found in Willie Sutton's jail cell. 
 Tiny plaques line the brick walls. Each one offers a capsule biography and a mug shot of one or another 20th-century bad fella, a motley lineup that includes the Lindbergh baby kidnapper Bruno R. Hauptmann and the murderer Ruth Snyder, the first woman to die in the electric chair. 
 To document the city's biggest crime wave of the moment, however, museum curators won't have many sexy artifacts to work with. A piece of paper is the weapon of choice for the newest holdup men, none of whom is likely ever to decorate the walls of the Police Museum. Freedom from capture in these cases depends, in many ways, on the crimes' and their perpetrators' remaining as unnotorious as possible. 
 The strategy so far has been a success. Many local residents are not yet aware that in the last 18 months people have robbed banks in New York at an astonishing clip -- more than 50 since January, according to police records. Multiple robberies in a single day are not uncommon. On New Year's Eve, three banks in Manhattan and another in Brooklyn were hit. Two weeks later, three more Manhattan banks were knocked over. Hardly a weekly day goes by when the "NYPD Daily Blotter" in The New York Post doesn't take note of a thief's having fled from a financial institution somewhere in the five boroughs with "an undisclosed amount of cash."
 The robberies are usually over so quickly, and the amounts of money taken at each bank so relatively small -- whatever the teller has in the drawer, on average about $1,700 but sometimes only a tenth of that -- that public outcry has been muted. The banks don't want to advertise the problem by talking to the news media; and the police seem chagrined. 
 On Jan. 24, 10 days after the three Manhattan robberies, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly held a news conference and announced two measures to address the issue.Undercover detectives will be stationed at banks likely to be targets; and, each week, precinct commanders must pool information to look for any patterns to the crimes. 
 One pattern is lack of flamboyance. The robbers' method emphasizes anonymity. Pistols are rarely waved. Drawing attention to yourself isn't cool. Instead, the preferred style this year in New York bank robberies is the "note job." A slip of paper is passed to the teller that threatens violence -- by gun or explosive. Because the cash is usually handed over at this point, the theat's sincerity cannot be assessed. But the popularity of the method speaks for itself. From Jan. 1 to Jan. 24, the police reported 36 unarmed bank robberies, up from 13 the same period last year. So far, no one has been hurt.
 New York isn't the only city where banks are under assault. Crime in general, and bank robberies in particular, are rising nationwide after a 10-year decline. The F.B.I.'s national crime statistics for 2001 reported a 3.7 percent jump in bank robberies, the first increase since 1991. The average take was $4,587, another indication that the current rash of bank jobs is the work of small-time crooks. 
 It wasn't always so. The nation's first recorded bank job took place in 1831 when Edward Smith burgled the City Bank of Wall Street after hours and walked away with $245,000. According to Herbert Asbury's colorful but not always accurate "Gangs of New York," the sole "genius" of 19th-century bank robbers was George Leslie, who operated here between 1869 and his murder in 1884. During that time he and his gang stole $7 million to $12 million.
 It has been decades since a New York bank robbery has merited national attention. In 1981, an unidentified 9-year-old held up the New York Bank for Savings with a toy pistol and got away with $118 before surrendering to the F.B.I. Before that, on Aug. 22, 1972, was the infamous stickup and hostage crisis initiated by John Wojtowicz, the gay Vietnam veteran who seized a Chase Manhattan branch in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, to pay for his boyfriend's sex-change operation. Carried live on television, the robbery formed the backbone for the 1975 Sidney Lumet film "Dog Day Afternoon." The movie showed robbers and hostages quickly becoming subsumed by a news media frenzy. 
 Realism and context are often the first victims in today's cinematic treatments of the bank job. Masterminds in search of a big score before retirement typically drive these plots, aided by computer hackers who must outwit diabolical security systems, and by psychopaths with shoulder cannons. The safecracker with the silky touch is gone. 
 The thieves preying on New York banks these days don't need intimidating firepower; and the security cameras they must defeat are often antiques. Banks are required by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to protect themselves with video surveillance. But the images produced by these cameras and given to the police after a robbery are often so fuzzy they're almost worthless as evidence. 
 In his news conference, Commissioner Kelley chastised the banks for their outmoded equipment and for choosing customer friendliness over tougher precautions. That may be so, but another pattern to the robberies has been that even banks that have bulletproof Lexan plastic sheeting between the tellers and customers offer no resistance when a note-wielder claims to have a gun or a bomb. 
 Mark Lerner, president of Epic Security, a major provider of security guards to banks in the New York region, says he believes the service his company provides is the best deterrent. "I'm in the guard business, so I'm prejudiced, but from the evidence I've seen, cameras help to solve robberies," said Mr.Lerner, who has a Ph.D. in criminology. "They don't prevent them." 
 Until the 1980's, uniformed armed guards could be found in most financial institutions of any consequence. But trying to improve the bottom line, many have done away with them. With the pay scale for security guards running $20 to $30 an hour, banks, in Mr. Lerner's opinion, have decided to live with the risk of losing small amounts of cash, provided the public continues to feel safe. "Bankers have done the math, and figured it's not cost-effective," Mr. Lerner said. "You'd have to be robbed every month for it to equal what it would cost you to hire a full-time security guard." 
 With bank executives more worried about losses from embezzlement and credit card fraud, and with law enforcement preoccupied with terrorism, small-time crooks have seized an opportunity. The city offers so many avenues of escape that a thief who is not too greedy or trigger-happy has a good chance of melting into the crowd. The police are currently searching for a white male who favors sunglasses and a baseball cap. A suspect in 32 note jobs since August 2001, he has grossed about $44,000 in that period without firing a shot. 
 And if New York's recession deepens, some bank managers expect the note jobs to continue. One veteran, who has seen more than 20 robberies in his 41 years of banking, and whose branch has been hit more than once in the recent wave, said: "It's been my experience that when the economy goes down, bank robberies go up." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crime waxes and wanes, but the bank heist still captures the city's imagination: Al Pacino in the film "Dog Day Afternoon," far right, based on a botched robbery by John Wojtowicz, above and right, who wasn't quite as elegant as Willie Sutton, below. (The Everett Collection); (Above, Larry C. Morris/The New York Times; below left, Associated Press); (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ROBBERY (90%); BANK ROBBERY (89%); MURDER (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); FIREARMS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) BANK ROBBERIES; MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

PERSON: WOJTOWICZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: DOG DAY AFTERNOON (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



262 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Market Indexes Slip Despite a Late Gain

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The three major stock market gauges fell for the second consecutive week, though they made a partial rebound on Friday.
 Stocks rose on Friday even after the government reported a surprisingly steep loss of 308,000 jobs in February and President Bush, in a news conference on Thursday night, hinted that war with Iraq was near. 
 The weakness revealed by the jobs data prompted forecasters to say Federal Reserve policy makers would cut their benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a point, to 1 percent, when they meet on March 18.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average, after a 66-point climb on Friday, was off 151.05 points, or 1.9 percent, to 7,740.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which climbed almost 7 points on Friday, was down 12.26 points, or 1.5 percent, and ended at 828.89. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.40 points Friday but was down 32.23 points, or 2.4 percent, for the week, closing at 1,305.29. Among the big losers were General Motors, Pepsi Bottling and Petsmart.
 In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.65 percent from 3.69 percent a week earlier and just above the 44-year low of 3.57 percent in October. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" UnocalNYSE: UCLThe Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against Unocal, accusing it of fraudulent and anticompetitive practices in getting patents for the production of cleaner-burning gasoline in California.Friday's Close: $25.98Week's Change: -1.40%EST. '03 P/E: 12.45 Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaNYSE: MSOThe company reported its first quarterly loss since becoming publicly traded three years ago. It blamed the fallout from a govern-ment investigation into Martha Stewart's stock trading.Friday's Close: $7.40Week's Change: +0.68%EST. '03 P/E: 37.76 Berkshire HathawayNYSE: BRK/AIn his annual letter to stockholders, Warren E. Buffett, the chief executive, said he has invested significantly in junk bonds after finding stocks still overvalued.Friday's Close: $64,800.00Week's Change: +5.02%EST. '03 P/E: 24.18 Capital One FinancialNYSE: COFThe credit card issuer's chief financial officer, David M. Willey, resigned after securities regulators notified him that they were close to filing an insider-trading lawsuit against him.Friday's Close: $27.48Week's Change: -11.27%EST. '03 P/E: 6.13 PfizerNYSE: PFEA federal judge inval-idated a broad patent held by the University of Rochester on a popular class of painkillers and dismissed a lawsuit seeking royalties from Pharmacia and Pfizer on sales of Celebrex.Friday's Close: $29.98Week's Change: +0.54%EST. '03 P/E: 16.67 Provident Financial GroupNNM: PFGIThe regional banking company said it overstated its earnings by $67 million from 1999 to 2002. It characterized the problem as a mistake.Friday's Close: $21.95Week's Change: -24.07%EST. '03 P/E: 9.19 MicrosoftNNM: MSFTThe world's biggest software maker plans to invest $2 billion in the next fiscal year to sell programs to small businesses.Friday's Close: $23.56Week's Change: -0.59%EST. '03 P/E: 23.01 First Colonial GroupNNM: FTCGShares soared after the banking company agreed to be acquired by the closely held Keystone Savings Bank in a deal valued at about $85.6 million.Friday's Close: $43.00Week's Change: +52.21%EST. '03 P/E: -- (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BOND MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BONDS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) 

COMPANY: PETSMART INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: PETM (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541940 VETERINARY SERVICES (55%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (59%); WARREN BUFFETT (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



263 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Young Germans Ask: Thanks for What?

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
A FEW blocks east of the old Checkpoint Charlie, stands a high school once named after Theodor Winter, a German anti-fascist who spent World War II in the Soviet Union.
 The school, now renamed for Charles Darwin, survives between glittering new shops and the dour high-rise apartment buildings that still line a boulevard of broken Communist dreams. 
 Many Americans might think this terrain should be the epicenter of German gratitude to the United States, for its role in getting rid of Nazis and Communists. But the view is quite different at Charles Darwin High School, where 12th-grade students of English, from formerly East German families, were discussing world events in recent days. 
Philip, 18, who wants to be a doctor, called for a statute of limitations on gratitude. "I think Germany has been grateful for more than 50 years," he said. "I think after 50 years one can start being independent."
And in an outburst directed at an American visitor, another student, Susie, also 18, opened the floodgates of resentment. "The idea that we have to be grateful to the Americans -- why?" she asked. "We have financed the gulf war. Why should we be grateful? Thirty thousand refugees have been bombed out in Dresden, so we have to be grateful? Why?"
It wasn't hard to figure out where she got her information. A recent best seller, "The Fire," by the historian Jorg Friedrich, questions carpet bombings that killed hundreds of thousands of German civilians late in World War II. And documentaries shown almost nightly on German television in recent months are part of a lengthy national re-examination of the Allied air war. 
Though the documentaries carefully placed the Allied bombings in the context of the Holocaust, the images of Dresden and many other firebombed cities, with smoking ruins and children's corpses, have heightened the emotional pitch of German opposition to a war in Iraq. Most nights, the film clips from World War II are only a click away from news reports about American impatience to bomb Baghdad. 
Gabriele Dietze, a professor at the Free University's John F. Kennedy Institute of American Studies, likened the effect on the young to "a shortcut in the brain." The ritual evocation of America's role in World War II, instead of instilling gratitude, may reinforce a stereotype of a trigger-happy United States, she said. 
In contrast, a fondly comic view of East Germany is now prevalent in popular culture. The latest box office hit is "Goodbye, Lenin," a bittersweet comedy about a loyal son trying to recreate an East German life for his dying mother, as her society crumbles under a flood of western goods and Deutsche marks.
In the east, teenagers' cynicism is fueled by their parents' disappointment with reunification. In 1990, many economists said the east would be as prosperous as the west within a few years. More than 12 years later, unemployment in the east is still running at 20 percent, double that in the west.
"In my opinion, capitalism didn't win," said Andreas Schutt, 23, a part-time computer programmer, whose 50-year-old father was just laid off. "In my opinion, Communism lost. Now capitalism is failing, too." 
In a recent poll, 61 percent of Germans under 30 said President Bush was more dangerous than Saddam Hussein, or equally dangerous. In contrast, only 48 percent of Germans 60 and older had those views. 
Yet when asked if they had more positive or more negative associations with "the American way of life," young Germans were two to three times more likely to be positive than Germans over 45, according to the poll, conducted by the Forsa polling institute. 
"There is a total disconnect," said Gary Smith, president of the American Academy in Berlin. "They wear jeans and listen to Eminem, but this is not relevant to the America that these students are afraid of. In the end it comes down to America's power in the world."
Zitty, a popular Berlin weekly, recently ran an article titled "Farewell to America?" In the antiwar protests here, the article found evidence of a "new European spirit" impatient with worn-out American reproaches of ingratitude.
"To tell you the truth I've never seen so much anti-Americanism in my life, not in the Vietnam War, never," said the novelist Peter Schneider, 62. "Since Bush is on the stage, he has alienated a whole generation. It's anti-Bushism first, and then it gets mixed up with anti-Americanism."
At least one older German was appalled. "All of Europe owes the U.S. its liberation," Wolf Biermann, a songwriter and poet, wrote in an acerbic essay about the recent antiwar marchers in Der Spiegel, a news magazine. "Many of those who want peace at any price evidently don't want to acknowledge that in an indirect way we owe our release from the Soviet People's Jail of the G.D.R. to nobody so much as to those weapon-crazy Americans."
Mr. Biermann has a special perspective. His father died at Auschwitz, and he was a dissident in the Communist German Democratic Republic, until he was stripped of citizenship in 1976.
Before the 1991 gulf war, some prominent Germans of his generation bucked antiwar sentiment by likening Saddam Hussein to Hitler. Now, for some young Germans, the comparison that Susie voiced in her English class works better. President Bush is "a second Hitler," she said, and the attack on the World Trade Center was the equivalent of the Reichstag fire. 
However outrageous such a link seems to Americans -- and the German justice minister was fired last fall for voicing a less virulent version -- it evoked little disagreement from Susie's classmates. On the contrary, several chimed in with conspiracy-laced challenges to the official version of events. Of the Sept. 11 attacks, Franzeska, 18, said, "There are a lot of rumors that the Americans did it alone."
A boy named Marian added, "We can't imagine that the C.I.A. didn't know something about this." Then, he asked rhetorically, "Did you think that Americans were really on the moon?"
THIS was not an electronic chat room or the Arab street. These 18-year-olds were in the capital city of a democratic, reunified Germany -- the very Germany that President Bush has cited as a model for what military intervention could achieve in a postwar Iraq. 
In the old days, students here studied English from Communist textbooks, and built their image of America from a mixture of fear and longing, recalled Herbert Schkutek, the 53-year-old principal.
"It was either a dangerously unknown territory or an earthly paradise," he said. "Now they have more realistic views."
Their views, more outlandish than realistic, were bolstered with selective history. Next, the students were going on a school field trip to learn more about America. They were off to see "Bowling for Columbine," the biting documentary by Michael Moore about paranoid, gun-loving, dangerously manipulated Americans.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Moral equivalence on display in Berlin. (Getty Images); Taking a break at Charles Darwin High School in Berlin. Some students said President Bush is "a second Hitler." (Otto Pohl for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); FAMILY (74%); HOLOCAUST (73%); HISTORY (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); POLITICS (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BERNSTEIN, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (93%); IRAQ (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



264 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Pop Went the Bubble 

 BODY:
5,048.62. That beguilingly pedestrian figure -- most numbers are, once untethered from their context -- marked the point at which one of history's most spectacular financial bubbles popped. Three years ago tomorrow, it was the closing number for the Nasdaq composite, the market index for all those "new economy" tech stocks. 
 It proved to be the high for an index that came to reflect far more than the actual value of Americans' ownership in a set of companies. Stock markets, after all, chart society's mood as much as anything -- which helps explain why the Dow Jones industrial average was only a single point higher at the end of 1981 than it was at the end of 1964. 
 March 10, 2000, does not seem like a long time ago solely because the Nasdaq is now at 1,305.29. Americans at the turn of the millennium, before the botched presidential election, the collapse of Enron and the Sept. 11 attacks, viewed theirs as a moment of extravagant opportunity. So many of the old constraints -- from the cold war's sense of peril to the business cycle -- seemed a thing of the past. On that day, a Friday, our colleague Thomas L. Friedman complained in his column that foreign policy was not an issue in the presidential campaign, "due in part to the relative peace and prosperity America now enjoys." At neighborhood barbershops, people were talking stocks. The feverish deal of the week three years ago was VeriSign's acquisition of Network Solutions. Most people were fuzzy on exactly what these Internet companies did, but whatever it was, it was worth some $20 billion. 
Americans no longer expect to see the Nasdaq at 5,000 again anytime soon, if ever. Not that the market's rebound is our main concern. Americans these days feel as if they've lost far more than a few trillions in the stock market. We mourn the passing of that moment of extravagant opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BONDS (78%); COLD WAR (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; EDITORIALS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



265 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: WHAT THEY'RE READING 

BYLINE:  COMPILED BY KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
 David B. Readerman, 46
Equity growth strategist, Thomas Weisel Partners

BOOK: "The Mind of Wall Street" by Leon Levy with Eugene Linden (2002)

WHY: "I'm reading this to gain a historical perspective from an accomplished Wall Street veteran on the boom-bust cycles of Wall Street. His insights on the importance of building a partnership with smart, trusted partners, how to assess business and financial risk and his deep value investment methodology were important lessons that I gleaned from the book."

Robert R. Glauber, 63
Chief executive, NASD

BOOK: 'The South Sea Bubble' by John Carswell (2002)

WHY: 'We need to see the Internet bubble in historical context and be sensitive to the danger of regulatory overreaction. For example, when the South Sea bubble burst in 1720, Parliament outlawed new corporations, short sales, futures trading and options trading. Some of these laws remained on the books for over a hundred years, although they were flagrantly disregarded.'

Leslie R. Caldwell, 45
Director, Department of Justice Enron Task Force

BOOK: "Paradise Alley" by Kevin Baker (2002)

WHY: "It is a terrific historical novel focused on life in Manhattan during the Civil War, chock-full of vivid characters confronting the issues of the day -- immigration, racism, war, the draft riots and the struggle of daily existence. The story is told from several perspectives, including that of several memorable female characters and an African-American man, making the book deeper and more memorable than the usual wars and conquest tales of historical fiction." COMPILED BY KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FUTURES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); RACE & RACISM (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: READERMAN, DAVID B; CALDWELL, LESLIE R; GLAUBER, ROBERT R; O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



266 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Wine by the Numbers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Raising a Glass (and Doing Some Math)" (Feb. 23), which described how a California winemaker offers a wine-business seminar for college students at his winery: 
 I know from my own teaching experience that when students are taught about alcoholic products and how they fit into the fabric of life and the economy, behaviors change. Each semester I welcome 86 students into my beverage management class. Although many may start the class thinking that it will give them a chance to "get wasted," they leave 15 weeks later with a new perspective. They have learned about the people and countries where alcoholic beverages are produced. They have learned about the most recent research that investigates health issues related to alcohol. And most of all, they have learned how to appreciate alcoholic beverages in a socially responsible way. 
Over the past nine years students have decreased their alcohol consumption by 23 percent during the semester in which they are enrolled in the class, according to before-and-after surveys. Not bad when you consider that we typically have tastings twice a week!

JOSEPH F. DUROCHER, PH.D.
Durham, N.H., Feb. 25

The writer is an associate professor of hospitality management at the Whittemore School of Business of the University of New Hampshire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); WINERIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WINE (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); MANAGER TRAINING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); WRITERS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



267 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial DeskMoney and Bus; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Being Your Own Boss, for a Price

BYLINE:  By JULIA MEURLING 

 BODY:
Many people are tired of working for someone else, but they still do not want to start a business from scratch. So they have turned to franchises with established brand names and products. 
 The International Franchise Association, a trade organization, estimates that around 2,000 franchisers, or parent companies, and 350,000 franchise units operate in the United States. And they are not limited to fast food: there are franchises for tutoring, wedding planning and even for providing drug-sniffing dogs. 
 Nor are franchises limited to investors who have especially deep pockets. An auto dealership or hotel can cost more than $1 million, but initial investments start at less than $50,000 for a cleaning service like Jani-King. In addition to standard franchise fees, costs vary widely, depending on the location and remodeling and legal requirements. Subway, the fast-food chain, estimates that start-up costs for the first three months of operation run from $96,700 to $225,500. JULIA MEURLING

GRAPHIC: Charts TOP FRANCHISERS*: McDonald'sTOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 23.6UNITS FRANCHISED: 77.7% TOP FRANCHISERS*: 7-ElevenTOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 22.6UNITS FRANCHISED: 88.3 TOP FRANCHISERS*: Cendant+TOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 19.8UNITS FRANCHISED: 97.0 TOP FRANCHISERS*: Yum Brands+TOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 19.7UNITS FRANCHISED: 65.9 TOP FRANCHISERS*: SubwayTOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 18.0UNITS FRANCHISED: 100.0 TOP FRANCHISERS*: H&R BlockTOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 10.6UNITS FRANCHISED: 44.0 TOP FRANCHISERS*: Duskin+TOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 10.1UNITS FRANCHISED: 96.1 TOP FRANCHISERS*: Allied Domecq+TOTAL UNITS* (THOUSANDS): 9.7UNITS FRANCHISED: 99.8 *Ranked by total number of company-owned and franchise units. +Examples of franchises are Century 21 (Cendant); KFC (Yum); Home Instead Senior Care in Japan (Duskin); and Dunkin Donuts (Allied). SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGESGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change from July through Jan. 26. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change from September to February. FOOD PRICESGraph tracks change in consumer price index from February to January. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks weekly totals in thousands from September to February. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks weekly dollars in billions from September to February. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks daily four-week moving average for Los Angeles, Chicago and New York from September through March 1. (Sources: International Franchise Association top franchisers ; Information Resources alcohol ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (93%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (88%); FRANCHISORS (88%); FAST FOOD (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); DOGS (54%); NEW CAR DEALERS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS; FRANCHISES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE ASSOCIATION (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE ASSN 

PERSON: MEURLING, JULIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



268 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ENERGY; 
Uncertainty of War Unsettles Oil Industry and the Economy

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN and NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
For months, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has scrambled, with little success, to keep a lid on oil prices. With war threatening as the cartel's ministers meet in Vienna this week, prospects for the global economy are so cloudy, analysts say, there is not much left for OPEC to do.
 The oil producers are not alone in their plight. Around the world, and especially in the United States, the dilemma of planning for the unknowable is upsetting the decisions of consumers, businesses and investors. That is hampering an economy struggling to better last year's meager growth, weighing on stock prices and subduing consumer spending. 
 Oil is a significant component of all those calculations. Crude oil prices have hit their highest levels since the Persian Gulf war of 1991, and Standard & Poor's estimates high energy prices have cost the economy $50 billion in consumer purchasing power, or 0.5 percentage point of growth, just since last fall. The Energy Department predicts that by April, consumers will be paying record-high prices for gasoline in much of the country. 
In any effort to assess how prices will move -- and how the economy will react -- the echoes of history are inescapable. Just like in the fall of 1990, the massing of American troops near Iraq and fears that oil supplies from the Persian Gulf will be disrupted have lifted the price of oil well above $30 a barrel for weeks.
But most of the similarities end there, according to industry analysts. While few experts expect a war to lead to shortages of oil, most doubt there will be a replay of the events of the gulf war.
A dozen years ago, analysts noted, the world was awash in oil. Prices were less than $20 a barrel when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. They began to climb when the United Nations imposed an embargo on Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil, removing a bit more than 7 percent of global oil supplies, according to Leonidas P. Drollas, the chief economist with the Center for Global Energy Studies, a London research firm.
Oil prices spiked to more than $41 a barrel by October 1990, but fell once OPEC moved to compensate by increasing production to make up for the loss of the embargoed oil. A few weeks after the United States-led attack on Iraq in January 1991, oil was selling for less than $18 a barrel.
Some traders are positioning themselves for prices to plunge again should the shooting start. "People realize that there is a tremendous downside risk," said Neal L. Wolkoff, the chief operating officer of the New York Mercantile Exchange, where crude oil is traded. 
Most analysts say, however, that key indicators of the oil industry's health -- notably low inventories of oil and petroleum products at American refineries -- suggest that now, prices would remain steep regardless of military action.
A yearlong series of production cuts by OPEC in 2002 gradually reduced global oil supplies as world economies were growing stronger. Then a strike in Venezuela stripped 4 percent of the world's oil supply from the market. So the balance between supply and demand is much tighter than it was on the eve of the gulf war. 
Today, a war in Iraq would remove about two million barrels of oil a day from the market, analysts estimate. Some believe that OPEC, which does not disclose its production, has the spare capacity -- concentrated in Saudi Arabia -- to replace that oil. Others say they think the cartel's members are already pumping at full capacity, both in an effort to keep prices from spiraling even higher, at the risk of stifling demand, and to take advantage of the unusually high prices. 
"I think they're effectively tapped out," said Edward L. Morse, executive adviser at the Hess Energy Trading Company. "They're producing very close to as much oil as they can produce."
One step that helped drive prices down once the gulf war began was the decision by the White House to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Lately, the Bush administration has said that it would tap the 600-million-barrel reserve onlyif supply disruptions occur -- not to rein in high prices. 
Analysts, oil traders and even some Republican politicians have called on the White House to move more quickly, given the market's jitters. "They must release the oil because there is one fly in the ointment: consumer behavior," said Mr. Drollas of the Center for Global Energy Studies. "If people panic and start filling up their cars, the system will run dry." 
Ultimately, the price of oil will likely swing with the progress of a war, industry executives and analysts said. If any fighting ended quickly, prices will probably fall -- though not as sharply as in 1991, given generally tight supplies. But if the conflict dragged on, or if oil facilities in Iraq or neighboring countries were damaged, prices could remain high. 
Faced with such uncertainty, OPEC will likely do nothing formally when it meets in Vienna, except pledge to continue at high levels of production, analysts said.
"It doesn't matter what they say in Vienna, because OPEC has only one option -- that is, provide the barrels that are being asked of them," said Yasser Elguindi, the director of the oil and energy unit of Medley Global Advisors, a New York consulting firm.
The impact of a war on the broader economy is as hard to read as the prospects for oil prices. 
If war comes, it could end in anything from quick victory followed by democratic change to chaos and terror worldwide. The rosiest outcome could bolster the United States economy by $50 billion this year, according to a much-cited report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, while the worst case could cost $450 billion. 
In the meantime, the suspense is taking its toll, said Laurence H. Meyer, the former Federal Reserve governor who wrote the report. "Timing is not unimportant," he said, "because it lengthens the weaker period early in the year and pushes the rebound later in the year."
During the gulf war, the allies' early success briefly emboldened consumers, but there was little of the customary wartime boom. The nation was already in a recession when Iraq invaded Kuwait. By the time President George Bush declared Kuwait liberated, the unemployment rate had already begun its usual postrecession climb and the president's wartime popularity evaporated.
That chain of events fit a timeworn pattern, said Gail D. Fosler, the chief economist of the Conference Board, a business research group in New York. "Whether you're looking at the Arab oil embargo, the Iran revolution that led to the oil shock in the late 1970's or the gulf war, it occurred towards the end of our economic cycle," she said. "You were susceptible, and you got sick."
This time, by contrast, the economy has recently endured recession and, some economists say, may be closer to the start of a new boom.
But the potential side effects of a war could place an unprecedented drag on the economy.
"During the gulf war, you didn't have people being put on heightened terror alerts," Ms. Fosler said. "There's too much emphasis that's put on the war, and not enough emphasis that's put on the terror."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Perspective on Oil Prices"Oil prices have risen over the last year to levels comparable to what they were before the Persian Gulf war of 1991. But, when adjusted for inflation, prices are actually comparable to what they were after the war ended. Graph tracks the current price of oil and the price of oil in 1990 dollars from 1990 through 2003. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); AUSTRIA (90%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



269 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Farm Worker Held in Bombings At Two Universities in Beijing 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 8 

 BODY:
The police seized a farm worker today who they say has confessed to setting off explosions late last month at two Beijing universities. The arrest apparently concluded a nationwide dragnet for the person who caused the rare terrorist incidents in China's tightly patrolled capital.
 A police spokesman told reporters that the man, Huang Minxiang, 27, had been apprehended in his home province of Fujian in southeastern China and had immediately confessed to causing both explosions, which came within two hours of each other. 
 "He has unreservedly confessed to causing this incident," the spokesman, Liu Wei, said.
The blasts were set at cafeterias at Beijing University and Qinghua University at the lunch hour on Feb. 25. At least nine people were wounded and glass was shattered in the areas around the blasts. The explosions alarmed students accustomed to relative quiet and tight security in the sprawling, gated campuses of China's most elite universities.
Though Muslim separatists from the Xinjiang region have been accused of causing explosions in the Chinese capital in the past, the latest bombing led to concerns that China might not be as isolated as people here once believed from the wave of terrorist bombings that has hit the United States, Indonesia and other nations.
It also prompted a major police reaction because it came days before China's annual two-week parliamentary session, now under way in Beijing.
Mr. Liu did not say whether Mr. Huang had told the police the motive for the bombings. The official New China News Agency reported that the police had discovered the location where Mr. Huang is said to have made the explosive, as well as remnants of fuses.
Farm incomes in China have been stagnant despite the nation's rapid economic growth, and there are regular peasant uprisings to protest high and arbitrary taxation.
It was unclear if economic grievances prompted the bombing. But top leaders have used the latest session of the national legislature, which is formalizing a sweeping leadership transition, to promise that they intend to address China's growing wealth gap and stubborn rural poverty.
Officials at Beijing University said earlier this week that they had identified a male suspect between 20 and 40 years old whose image was captured in security cameras.
Though high-profile bombings in public places are rare, ingredients to make explosives are widely available. 
Because guns are much more tightly controlled, crude bombs are often the weapons of choice for disgruntled workers and spurned lovers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (53%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) AGRICULTURE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: BEIJING UNIVERSITY; QINGHUA UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; HUANG MINXIANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (88%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



270 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Worried About Labor's Waning Strength, Union Presidents Form Advisory Committee 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Concerned that John J. Sweeney's efforts to turn around the labor movement have stalled, a handful of union presidents have persuaded the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to borrow a page from corporate America to help improve labor's fortunes. 
 These union leaders persuaded the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to create a corporate-like executive committee to provide guidance to Mr. Sweeney, the federation's president, and to help line up support among unions for initiatives pushed by the federation. 
 The executive committee will include 17 union presidents and will meet with Mr. Sweeney once a month in Washington to discuss issues, including how to increase organizing and how to respond to antilabor initiatives in Congress. 
Some of the union presidents who pushed to create this committee voiced concern that the labor movement was adrift, was attracting too few new members and was reacting too slowly in a range of areas.
The union presidents who proposed this committee were concerned that the main body advising Mr. Sweeney -- the 54-member executive council -- was too unwieldy and met just twice a year. In a move that the federation did not publicize, the executive council quietly approved formation of the executive committee two weeks ago at the council's winter meeting in Florida.
Bruce Raynor, one of the early advocates of the new committee and president of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, said: "We thought this committee was needed too help us focus on some of the tough issues we're facing. We're dealing with a declining economy, with a hostile administration and a hostile Congress."
One union president said Mr. Sweeney at first hesitated about the proposed committee, fearing it might encroach on his powers, but he soon embraced the idea, seeing that it might help him rally support for his initiatives. For Mr. Sweeney and many labor leaders, one of their biggest frustrations is that only about 10 of the 65 unions in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. have embraced Mr. Sweeney's call to do far more organizing to reverse labor's decline of decades.
The new executive committee will include the presidents of the federation's 10 largest unions, including the Teamsters, the American Federation of Teachers and the United Automobile Workers. The presidents of seven smaller unions, to be selected by Mr. Sweeney, will be members. The committee will also include Mr. Sweeney; Richard Trumka, the federation's secretary-treasurer; and Linda Chavez Thompson, its executive vice president.
"I've been constantly reviewing for the past seven years how we can best operate," Mr. Sweeney said in an interview. "I decided that we needed more dialogue on some of these major programs and on the restructuring that we're doing."
Several union officials said the new group would essentially be a kitchen cabinet and would give Mr. Sweeney broader advice than he receives from his team of four or five full-time staff members, who some union presidents say have not done enough to build support and consensus for A.F.L.-C.I.O. initiatives.
Several of the union presidents who proposed the new committee -- including the presidents of the service employees union, the laborers union and the teachers federation -- view it as a way to get the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to focus more on what they say should be its two priorities: politics and organizing. 
John Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union, said the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was spread too thin and should devote more of its money and energy to organizing. Mr. Wilhelm said he would even consider ideas like eliminating the federation's respected health and safety department to channel more money into organizing. "My view is that if we don't devote the largest possible amount of money to organizing and to political action that relates to organizing, we will go out of business," he said. "And if we go out of business, we can't help anybody's health and safety."
The labor federation received bad news last month when the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the percentage of workers in unions had fallen to 13.2 percent in 2002, down from 13.4 percent the previous year and 35 percent in the 1950's. The bureau also reported that union membership nationwide dropped by 280,000 last year to 16.1 million, largely because of large layoffs in heavily unionized industries, including steel, airlines and hotels.
"The biggest problems the labor movement faces in terms of responding to the challenges it faces is that it's so divided," said Richard Hurd, a Cornell University professor of labor relations. "This new executive committee, by including the leaders of the largest unions, could help get everyone working together."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney will hear ideas from a new council of union leaders. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); UNITE HERE (54%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



271 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: AN OVERVIEW: MARCH 8, 2003; 
Baghdad Destroys Missiles, Demands Concessions and Exploits Allies' Rift

BYLINE:  By Robert D. McFadden 

 BODY:
 With a nine-day war clock ticking over Baghdad, Iraq moved on two fronts: To undercut the American rationale for invasion, it resumed the destruction of its missiles. And apparently seeking to widen divisions among major world powers, it fired a blunderbuss of demands at the United Nations.

THE WEAPONS -- Iraq said that under United Nations supervision, it had destroyed 6 more Al Samoud 2 missiles, bringing to 40 the number eliminated, about a third of its 120 missiles, including 20 in various stages of construction. They were banned after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 because they exceeded a 93-mile range limit.
 Two United Nations weapons inspectors on Friday had cited "substantial" disarmament progress and no signs of a renewed nuclear arms program, but also said Baghdad had not answered many questions about chemical and biological weapons, and had far to go in a disarmament process that might take months.

THE DEMANDS -- In a statement issued after a cabinet meeting and in editorials in the state-controlled press, Iraq glossed over the inspectors' concerns, played up its disarmament progress and said it was now sufficiently free of weapons of mass destruction to warrant the cancellation of economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations a decade ago. It demanded that they be lifted.
There were other demands: that the United Nations should strip Israel of its weapons of mass destruction; that Israel should be forced, under Security Council resolutions, to withdraw from occupied Palestinian territories; and that the United Nations should formally brand the United States and Britain "liars."

OTHER VIEWS -- President Bush, in his weekly radio address, scoffed at Iraq's destruction of the weapons as "a public show" involving "a few prohibited missiles," and said President Hussein, far from disarming, "has ordered the continued production of the very same type of missiles."
United Nations diplomats were saying Britain was a bit more interested than the United States in finding a compromise to pass a new Security Council resolution that would give Iraq until March 17 to completely disarm or face an American-led invasion. A vote could take place as early as Tuesday.
France, Russia, Germany and China oppose the measure, which was introduced by Britain with the support of the United States and Spain. Washington seemed determined to follow its own course anyway, ready to oppose a compromise that would extend the deadline, and ready to invade Iraq whether or not the resolution was passed.

READINESS -- Cargo ships carrying 72 Apache and Kiowa helicopters of the 101st Airborne Division arrived in Kuwait, and ships with the unit's Chinook and Blackhawk choppers were expected to arrive tomorrow, American military commanders said. The division's troops flew to Kuwait last week.
The Apaches carry armor-piercing Hellfire missiles. The Kiowas are smaller surveillance and scouting craft. If war comes, the helicopters are expected to play major roles in the assault. Their pilots will undergo training to get used to desert flying.

TERRORISTS -- Looking ahead, the Central Intelligence Agency warns that terrorists based in Iraq -- small groups affiliated with Al Qaeda and operating independently of Mr. Hussein's forces -- are planning attacks on allied forces during or after any invasion. Critics question Washington's claim that Baghdad has tolerated or supported terrorist followers of Osama bin Laden.
The recent capture of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, Al Qaeda's chief tactician, has given American officials new hope of tracking Mr. bin Laden and disrupting terrorist operations. But the interrogation techniques used on him have raised tactical and moral questions. Officials say that physical torture is not being used, but that sleep deprivation and temporarily withholding food and access to medical attention are acceptable, given the stakes. Robert D. McFadden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); HELICOPTERS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) MCFADDEN, ROBERT D 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (74%); FRANCE (55%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



272 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Despite a Shaky Economy, 14,000 Helped the Neediest

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL 

 BODY:
What some families needed most was rent money to stave off the threat of eviction. For others, it was food and clothing. For still others, it was help providing for the many expenses involved in rearing gravely ill children.
 What it all added up to was a lot of need, and a lot of people counting on the aid of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 This winter, The Times completed its 91st annual campaign for the Neediest Cases Fund, which offers help and hope to people throughout New York City. Over three months, from Nov. 3 to Jan. 31, daily articles examined the fragile situations of dozens of adults and children with medical, financial and social needs. 
The articles moved thousands of readers to respond with letters, phone calls and donations. A total of 14,085 individual and institutional donors -- 13 percent more than in the previous campaign -- contributed. The 2002-2003 campaign raised $8,806,760.98, compared with the $9.8 million raised in the previous campaign.
"Apart from the extraordinary outpouring last year after 9/11, this year's total is by far the largest for any year since the Neediest Cases Fund began," said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund. "The amount is 10 percent higher than in 2000-2001, the previous record year. That fact alone is gratifying to report, considering New York's economic downturn."
For some, the preferred method of contributing has become the World Wide Web. In all, 1,495 donors used CharityWave.org, a free online donation service, to pledge $304,115.00. In the previous campaign, the total was $303,216.
"I was so delighted," said Cristine Cronin, director of Charitywave.org. "Last year was a year of philanthropy. We were afraid people would not continue to give."
Besides individuals, large institutions continued their support for Neediest Cases. For the third consecutive year, the Starr Foundation, a private nonprofit group associated with the insurer American International Group, gave $1 million, the largest amount given by one organization.
Despite the challenging economic environment, a group of first- and second-year analysts from several investment banks continued an annual tradition that began in the 1980's, rallying together to collect $138,232 from their colleagues.
In addition, the fund received $951,219.39 from bequests and trusts.
Every dollar sent to the Neediest Cases Fund is used to help needy families or individuals identified by the seven local charities that participate. 
One of the Neediest Cases recipients profiled during the 2002-2003 campaign was Louise Lewis. She received $3,000 for back rent. Ms. Lewis, whose 22-year-old daughter died of cancer, has taken on the responsibilities of caring for her orphaned granddaughter. That money meant a measure of stability for a family that has been struggling day to day.
For James and Patricia Conklin, a smaller sum has made an equally big difference. They received $319.11 from the fund to complete repairs to a van that had been modified to transport their son, Anthony, 18, who is mentally disabled and has cerebral palsy and uses a wheelchair.
Such stories inspired donors like Kenneth and Jean Wentworth, of Scarsdale, N.Y. Donors for more than two decades, they sent $150. They wrote of their fear that the poverty of others might be overlooked during uncertain times and a march to war. "Yet nothing is more urgent than caring for suffering millions, especially within our own borders." they wrote.
Uncertain times, and hope for better days ahead, also inspired the donation by Sarah Diane McShea of New York City. With her $250, she also included a note: "Thank you for all you are doing for New York and those who need help our help. May 2003 be a better year for our city."

Trust and Estate Donors
The New York Times Company Foundation has issued a list of the trusts and estates that donated to this year's Neediest Cases campaign.

TRUSTS

A.E. Bradford
Ada Brentano
Adolph S. Ochs
Albert Louis Weschler
Amy Frank
Anson Lichtenstein
Arnold Blumlein
Around Foundation
Augustus I. Siesel
Baruch Glazer Living Trust
Ben Schulak Revocable Trust
Bernard & Anne Spitzer Charitable Trust
Bernard H. Mazure
Bert Nachman
Carola Jacoby
Carolyn Fiske MacGregor
Carson Family Trust
Charles F. Speare
Constance Coleman
David Haas Memorial Fund
David Straus
Desiree L. Franklin
Dorothy Maybaum Trust Account
Dryfoos Charitable Trust
Edwin Bruns
Edwin G. Bruns Jr.
Edwin Tassel
Eleanor Flynn Johnson Trust
Eleanor Rice Hunt
Elisa Lieberman
Elisabeth S. Andriesse
Elizabeth M. Lyman Declaration of Trust
Elizabeth Walker
Elsie and Walter Naumburg
Elsworth Eliot Jr.
Emmanuel Frank
Esther Friedenheit
Esther Rodriguez Public Admin. of Bronx
Evelyn Y. Davis
Evelyn Y. Davis Foundation
Flora Isenberg
Florence T. May
Florence W. Sprague
Frank H. Rank
Franklin K. Sprague
Fred M. Hechinger
George V. and Jean A. Smith Charitable Trust
George W. Ochs-Oakes
Hanna Lewis
Harry Sices
Hattie Joseph
Helen B. Post
Helen Harris
Henrietta S. Wolf
Henry Krumb
Henry L. Walker Jr.
Hoyt Miller
I. Montefiore Levy
Iremonger Trust
Jack & Elizabeth Haase
Jacob Nusbaum
Jacques de Kadt
James A. MacDonald Foundation
James and Sophie Sylvester
Jane & Martin Schwartz
Jane L. Stitt
JB Wilbert Trust
Jill H. Shore & Michael E. Hoffman
John Roach Trust
Joseph Berk
Joseph S. Heil
JP Morgan Services Inc.
Julius Loeb
Katherine Packard Crispell
Lilly J. Freeman
Louis Wiley
Louise B. Poppe
LW Frohlich Charitable Trust
Mabelle Allen Wood
Madeleine O'Leary
Madge & Hoyt Miller Trust
Madge Miller
Marc & Linda Lawrence
Family Trust
Margaret J Plant-Graves
Margaret L Bonsal Trust
Mary J. Hutchins Foundation
Maude Harkness
Max Richter
Maybaum Brothers Memorial Fund
Mazure Bernard H TW
Nannie Ochs
Oscar and Eyhel B. Reiss
Percival E. Jackson
Peter Stobereck
Petschek Family Trust
Phil A. Bali
Philip W. Bonsal Trust
Reuben B. Crispell
Riggs & Co.
Rita Bodenheimer
Robert O. Veit
Roberta Waxman
Rosa F. Dale
Rosa Petschek
Samuel J. Mortiz
Serge Kotlarsky
Sidney & Judith Kranes Charitable Trust
Sol Goldman Charitable Trust
Solon E. Summerfield
Foundation
Sophia Miller
Stanley E. Kapp
Stephanie Sylvester Wurtzel Charitable Remainder Trust
The New York Community Trust
The New York Community Trust -- R. Rheinstein Fund
The Peixotto Trust
The Pierre F. Simon Charitable Trust
The Tebil Foundation
Tilly Evelyn Lash
Victor and Clara C. Battin Foundation
Viola L. Hendrickson Trust
Weingarten Memorial
Wilbur Trust
William Detmold
William J. Nagle

ESTATES

Adaline B. Morelli
Adolph M. Glueck
Agnes Hoffar
Albert G. and Alison R. Lanier
Alexandra F. Terracciano
Alfred Marc Serex
Alvin Tannen
Andrea Strauss
Anita Guterman
Anita Steckler
Arthur Ledman
Audrey Gottschalk
B. Carnelia Alverson
Beatrice R. Swaab
Blanche G. Haltzel
Celia Russel
Claire Wronkow
Cleo L. Mitchell
Conrad Taff
Constance Cutner
Dorothy Ackerman
Dorothy F. Moress
Edward Engel
Edward Faraldo
Eleanor S. Estate
Elizabeth H. Bryant
Elsa W. Koestler
Elsie Hummel
Eric Grave
Essie E. Lee
Ethel R. Mayorg-Rivas
Eugene Bascho, Est. Sophie L. Bascho
Evelyn Rittenhouse
Ferdinand Glantzlin
Florence Pollack
Franklin A. Sprague
Fred Abmeier
Fred J. Kalb
George Martin
Gladys Adler
Harriet Lichtman
Heinz Dawid
Helen Willens Moose
Hertha Stern
Ilse Redlich
Iris De La Torre Bueno
Isabel Andrews
Jack E. Shelby
Jacob Wallach
Janet A. Slone
Jean Freidfeld
Jeanne Lautman
Jessica Ruth Jacobs
Joane Karr
John L. Blackman Sr.
Joseph A. Palisi
Julien E. Strauss
Lawrence Zirinsky
Lillian Michaelson
Liselotte Wollmann
Ludwig Klauber
Madeline J. Foley
Margot Bonsal
Maria L. Moretti
McKnight Mitchel
Michael J. Ruberto
Milton Greenblatt
Nellie Blum
Peter Manning
Ralph Jahr
Richard J. Schade
Rita D. Hornstein
Robert Heroz
Rose Wollstein
Ruth A. Heller
Ruth H. Markowitz
Ruth K. Weinberg Estate
Salle Kroll Caro
Salvatore Saraceno
Sara Elizabeth Katz
Shirley Fastenberg
Sophie Koch
Stephen Friedman
Theodore Phillips
Tillye B. Aaronson
Walter H. Bunke
Walter Schwab
Wells Richardson
William L. Agress
William Salloch

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Conklin of Sullivan County, N.Y., helping her son, Anthony, received $319 to repair the family van. Anthony has cerebral palsy. (Richard L. Harbus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); ORPHANS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%)

PERSON: HASKELL, KARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



273 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: OVERVIEW; 
Empty Chairs at Bargaining Table in a Drama That No One Applauds

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Matinee and evening curtain times came and went yesterday, and all but one Broadway musical stayed dark, as musicians continued their strike over minimum orchestra sizes, and actors and stagehands joined their picket lines.
 The strike did not adversely affect "Cabaret," which operates under a separate contract, straight plays or Off Broadway shows, which performed on schedule yesterday. 
 As placard-wearing musicians banged drums and blew trumpets in demonstrations throughout Times Square, theatergoers lined up at box offices to seek refunds or exchanges, and both sides in the labor dispute refused to budge. 
Producers said they were waiting for a call from the musicians after making an offer Friday night regarding the minimum number of players required in an orchestra pit. "We don't have anybody to be at the table with," said a producer of "Hairspray," Margo Lion. 
The musicians said the producers' offer of a 15-musician minimum had been proffered as final, closing off further negotiation. "We need to hear from them that it's not a final offer," said Bill Dennison, assistant to the president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. "We are happy to come back to the table."
The impasse was expected to last through the weekend. Many people said they hoped that afterward both sides would feel compelled to return to the table, since the strike by the 325 musicians has idled many of Broadway's estimated 6,000 workers. Broadway theaters "provide thousands of jobs to New Yorkers, attract millions of tourists and generate billions of dollars of economic activity," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a statement. "I urge the theater owners and musicians' union to resolve their differences as quickly as possible."
Indeed, many Broadway insiders predict that the unity among the unions will be quickly strained if the strike drags on. The last musicians' strike, in 1975, lasted 25 days, a duration theater professionals said Broadway cannot afford in this economic climate.
"This will decimate us," said William Ivey Long, one of Broadway's leading costume designers. "I'm frantic. I've called all my wardrobe supervisors. We're holding hands over the telephone." 
Although actors were seen in an upbeat mood at various Broadway bars on Friday night hours after the strike began, their tonewas considerably more sober yesterday.
"I'm definitely worried, not only as far as my own paycheck," said Shoshana Bean, a member of the ensemble in "Hairspray." "I'm concerned that people are standing their ground in this strike, and some shows will close, and friends will be out of work." 
The 18 musicals on Broadway represent $1 million in gross sales per performance, according to the League of American Theaters and Producers, which represents the producers. As of tonight, the strike will have cost nearly $5 million. 
"The unions have turned out the lights," said the theater league's president, Jed Bernstein. "Theatergoers are certainly the ultimate losers."
Throughout the day, the parties involved and Broadway veterans were trying to figure out what went wrong. On Friday afternoon, it looked as if the shows would go on with virtual orchestras, which provide digital accompaniment. But at 5 p.m., Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, which represents the stagehands, voted to honor the picket line, a move that took producers by surprise. 
A few minutes later, Actors' Equity Association, which represents actors, voted to do the same, leaving the bulk of Broadway shut. 
But the support was clearly not offered easily. Officials of Actors' Equity made a point of saying that its position could change, depending on how negotiations proceed. And the stagehands did not say they would honor the picket line indefinitely.
Indeed, in conversations yesterday, many people who work on Broadway said they felt divided. "My one power I have is doing my own services and on Thursday getting paid for them," said Gavin Creel, who plays one of the leading men in "Thoroughly Modern Millie." "When somebody asks me to forfeit that power, I want to make sure I'm doing it for the right reasons."
Underlying the actors' support is the fact that their contract expires in June 2004. "I worry that we may have backed them too readily," Ms. Bean said. "A lot of the reason we did it is so they back us when we need them. They haven't backed us in the past."
The executive director of Actors' Equity, Alan Eisenberg, said he has tried to broker a deal between the two sides. But some producers say Mr. Eisenberg lost credibility with them after Sept. 11, 2001, when he waited until the stagehands offered concessions to help Broadway through a rough patch before coming up with his own.
Mr. Eisenberg said Equity had been preparing those concessions simultaneously.
The issue that prompted Friday's walkout was the minimum number of musicians required in Broadway's pits, currently 3 to 26, depending on the size of the theater, although exceptions have been granted. 
Both the musicians and producers acknowledge having made considerable headway on achieving flexibility in the process by which these exceptions are granted.
The producers' latest proposal would reduce the minimums for the largest theaters to 15. The musicians have refused to move from a minimum of 24.
When negotiations began early last month, the producers at first demanded an end to minimums. They say the musicians have not shown a similar willingness to move from their starting position. "We've moved six times in the last seven days," Mr. Bernstein said. "They haven't moved at all."
Mr. Dennison, of the musicians' union, said the union has in fact moved to the 24-musician minimum from 25 and 26 for the largest theaters. "Our concern is that they remain houses where a large orchestra can perform," he said. "There is no way we're going to protect the right to have an orchestra unless we protect the minimums."
The producers argue that the minimums allow the musicians to appropriate creative control. Because of the growing costs of mounting musicals on Broadway, they are also concerned about keeping costs down.
The musicians maintain that reducing the minimums will make it increasingly difficult to have full orchestras on Broadway, because producers will almost always opt to use the fewest musicians possible to save money. While a handful of productions have employed more musicians than the minimums called for, typically, music professionals say, producers stick to the minimums.
"The minimum is the same as the maximum," said Jonathan Tunick, the orchestrator behind most of Stephen Sondheim's musicals. "My experience has been consistently that when a new show is being planned, I am dictated the number of musicians I'm allowed by the producer. It's a condition of employment." 
Mr. Tunick is currently preparing the revival of "Nine" for Broadway. The first orchestra rehearsal is scheduled for Wednesday, with 15 musicians, down from the original production's 26 in 1982.
"They now have the minimums so low," Mr. Tunick said, "they're unworkable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On 45th Street, usually teeming before the 2 p.m. matinees, there was scant entertainment in a peek backstage. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (95%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); THEATER (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SALES FIGURES (70%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



274 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: For a Legend, A Fitting Encore 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
THE Danbury Museum and Historical Society, which owns the former practice studio of Marian Anderson, the singer who was the first African-American to perform at the Metropolitan Opera, is working to restore the studio and turn it into a permanent exhibition where musicians can take advantage of its extraordinary acoustics.
 In just a few weeks, the Anderson studio will open the exhibition on the life and career of the singer, who moved to the city in the early 1940's and lived there until she died in 1993. 
 "In the future, we hope to start an oral history project on the life of Ms. Anderson," said Brigid Durkin, executive director of the Danbury Museum and Historical Society, which is supervising the renovation of the Anderson studio. " Singers could use this space in the same way that Ms. Anderson used it, as apractice hall in which the singer can hear exactly what his or her voice would sound like in a well-attended concert hall." 
The studio had been designed by Anderson's husband, Orpheus Fisher, an architect.
"An unusual feature of the studio is its so-called cove ceiling, which means that both the ceiling itself and its juncture with all four walls are curved," said Max Ferro, a preservation architect based in Weare, N.H., who is a consultant in the renovation.
"This diffuses the sound, making this relatively small room the acoustical equivalent to a much larger concert hall."
Already, the construction company under contract to do the renovation, APEX Development Corporation, has built a new foundation for the studio and is starting to renovate the interior. Scott McCarthy, president of APEX, said he expected the renovation to be finished by early spring. The formal opening is expected to be in September. In a life filled with big moments, perhaps Anderson's biggest came in 1939. Anderson was scheduled to sing at Constitution Hall in Washington on Easter Sunday as part of a national concert tour, but the Daughters of the American Revolution, which owned the hall, cancelled her appearance because she was black, Anderson wrote in her autobiography. 
Outraged, Eleanor Roosevelt withdrew her membership from the organization, and Harold L. Ickes, President Roosevelt's secretary of the interior, offered the steps of the Lincoln Memorial as a substitute. About 75,000 people showed up for her performance there.
"When I started to sing our National Anthem," Anderson later wrote, " "I felt for a moment as though I were choking. For a desperate second, I thought that the words, well as I know them, would not come. Yet I sang. I don't know how."
After that concert, which made Anderson an international celebrity, she and her husband-to-be began house hunting throughout New York, New Jersey, New Hampshire and Connecticut. They joked about having traveled more than 10,000 miles in their quest, but the matter was not always amusing. Some property owners took their houses off the market when they discovered that the couple were African-Americans.
According to Allan Keiler's biography "Marian Anderson: A Singer's Journey" (Scribner, 2000), her husband once wrote to Anderson, who was on tour: "I am sorry about the Golden house, but my dear one must expect these things in a country so full of hate and prejudice."
Eventually, they settled on a 12-room, three-story Victorian farmhouse on 100 acres on Joe's Hill Road at the western side of Danbury. The owner, according to the biography, tried to stop the sale, but it was too late. Anderson later confided, Mr. Keiler reported, that they had to buy twice as much property as they needed "so we wouldn't contaminate the neighborhood."
It would be her home for nearly 50 years. Anderson was a familiar figure in Danbury during her life there, and she is remembered fondly by many in town who came to know her.
"She was never aloof," said Nancy F. Sudik, executive director of the Danbury Music Centre who knew Anderson in the 1970's when they were both on the board of the center, a nonprofit organization that presents musical programs at the local high school and elsewhere. "She was a true aristocrat, genteel even when elderly and frail."
Recalling Anderson's deep interest in music education, Ms. Sudik said, "During the Bicentennial celebration in 1976, long after Ms. Anderson had retired as a concert artist, she delivered the narrative section of Aaron Copeland's 'A Lincoln Portrait' at Danbury High School." 
John Cherry, who teaches at Danbury Elementary School and was a neighbor of Anderson, recalled her friendliness.
"I remember that one day after she had returned from a concert tour in India, she regaled us for at least half an hour with stories about the customs she had run into over there," he said. 
She was also self-effacing, Mr. Cherry continued: "She came to my sister's wedding and arrived late. My sister was just about to appear at the reception, so Ms. Anderson ducked and hid so that she wouldn't take attention away from my sister."
Anderson sold the Danbury house to a developer in 1982 with a provision that she and her husband could continue to live in it for the rest of their lives. Fisher died in 1986. When Anderson died in 1993 at the age of 96, the three-story house was demolished and several homes built on the property, but the single-story studio remained. The developer donated it to the Danbury Museum and Historical Society in 1999, when it was moved behind the museum at 43 Main Street.
The moving and renovation of the 24 foot by 20 foot studio is expected to cost $266,000, Ms. Durkin said. Because of the lobbying of Ms. Durkin and Deborah Grover, a Danbury lawyer who said she was introduced to Anderson as a child, $190,000 has been raised through bonds from the State Department of Economic and Community Development. Ms. Durkin said the rest is expected to be donated by local banks. 
"The renovated studio," Ms. Durkin added, "is a tribute to Ms. Anderson's success as a singer, an artist, a friend and a role model for women everywhere." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A giant tarp covering the Marian Anderson studio. Left, Michelle James, chairman of the exhibition at the studio, with Brigid Durkin, right. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); HISTORY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); OPERA (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MUSIC (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); EASTER SEASON (63%) OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: DANBURY MUSEUM AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY 

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (50%) ANDERSON, MARIAN (1897-1993) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



275 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Big Surprise, A Fare Hike 

BYLINE:  By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
THE 15 percent increase in Metro-North fares included in the budget proposal for 2003-2004 that Gov. John Rowland announced last week would be the biggest that riders have seen in nearly 20 years. But early indications are that they are not too upset by it. 
 "We haven't had an increase in years," said Jim Korchak of Stratford, a computer consultant waiting for a New York-bound train at the Stratford station on Wednesday. "If you look at it from a perspective of what the rate of inflation has been, I think it's fair. They're not asking for a ridiculous increase." 
 Just a few yards away, Theresa Shaw of Glastonbury said, referring to the governor: "I guess if we're in a crisis, what's he supposed to do?"
According to the Metro-North Railroad and the Connecticut Department of Transportation, the increase would be the highest since a 20 percent increase in 1984 and the first since a 4.5 increase in 1998.
James Cameron, vice chairman of the Connecticut Metro-North/Shoreline East Rail Commuter Council, an advocacy group representing rail commuters throughout the state, said he preferred to consider the increase more like a group of smaller ones that might have been spread out over the previous four years, such as the annual 5 percent increases in the mid-1990's.
"We have gone four years without an increase, and that doesn't mean that the cost of operating the railroad has gone down in any respect," he said. "That obviously keeps going up, too."
According to Harry P. Harris, chief of the Bureau of Public Transportation for the state's transportation department, the increase, which could take effect as early as Oct. 1, would help to cover the 65 percent of Metro North's deficit for which the state is responsible.
"What the governor has said is that the state's subsidy toward that deficit is being frozen at the level it's at this year," he said. "Therefore, any increase has to be picked up through the fare.
"The other alternative is to cut the size of the deficit. The only way to do that is by cutting service."
On Wednesday, Mr. Cameron said he had received "only a handful" of electronic mail regarding the increase. None appeared angry.
"They seem somewhat resigned to the inevitability of a fare increase, especially given the alternative, which would have been some reduction is service," he said.
Under the increase, a monthly commutation ticket from Stamford to New York City would go from $218 to $250. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INFLATION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



276 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: BY THE WAY; 
She Did It Her Way

 BODY:
It turns out mother knew best. When Amy Schapiro needed a subject for her history thesis at American University, her mom suggested Millicent Fenwick. 
About all Ms. Schapiro knew at that point was that Ms. Fenwick was a politician. "I thought she was a senator," said Ms. Schapiro, now an author who works for the federal Justice Department. 
 Ms. Fenwick, who died in 1992, was a politician -- a famously colorful and independent one -- but she was never a senator. She ran for that office in 1982, after four terms in the House of Representatives, suffering her first political defeat at age 72 to Frank R. Lautenberg. 
But there was much more to Ms. Fenwick's life than politics, as Ms. Schapiro demonstrates in the book that grew from her thesis, "Millicent Fenwick: Her Way," released this week by Rutgers University Press. 
A chapter called "Love, Scandal and Marriage" tells the story of a short-lived union that ended with Ms. Fenwick as an unemployed mother who had two children to support and a pile of debts run up by her ex-husband. Her luck started to change when Vogue magazine hired her to write captions. In time, she began writing feature articles, as well as "Vogue's Book of Etiquette" in 1948.
The book is enriched by the fact that Ms. Fenwick's son, Hugh, granted Ms. Schapiro exclusive rights to his mother's personal papers. "This included unlimited access to the Fenwick attic, in which I found correspondence from Millicent's father, grandmother and, of course, her," the author said. "The most valuable items were her personal journals, photographs and correspondence with her husband."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (57%) SHAPIRO, AMY; FENWICK, MILLICENT (1910-92) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: MILLICENT FENWICK: HER WAY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



277 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2281 words

HEADLINE: Training a Changing Work Force 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER 

DATELINE: CAMDEN 

 BODY:
FOR eight weeks last year, Leona Cottle went to her job-training center here every day learning how to cook, finally earning a certificate in culinary arts.
 But Ms. Cottle cannot feed her family of nine children, aged 5 to 21, on her own because she still can't find a job, and so she continues to collect welfare. For now, she makes a few dollars selling cakes and pies to friends at her church, the Faith Holy Temple. 
 She just finished another eight-week job-readiness training program administered through the state Department of Human Service, and hopes to find full-time work at a day-care center. So far, she has had several interviews, but no job offer. 
"I've learned a lot here," Ms. Cottle said one recent morning in the offices of RespondWorks, a community-based training agency financed by the state. "I know I can do this job, if I can get the chance."
In an effort to help Ms. Cottle and more than 200,000 other people in the state in a similar position, New Jersey is planning a major reorganization of its job-training programs that could have far-reaching implications for thousands of unemployed workers. 
While the state is facing a cyclical economic downturn, workers are also confronting deeper changes in the economy that make it more likely than ever that they will need job training at some point, regardless of how well educated or highly skilled they are. 
Yet Governor McGreevey says state training programs are not doing the job.
"New Jersey needs to be able to focus on those skills that are required in the marketplace," the governor said in a speech at Rutgers in January while outlining his plans. "For too long, we have developed skill-based training programs that were not necessarily responsive."
New Jersey's unemployment rate is hovering at 5.5 percent, just below the national average of 5.7 percent. In the past two years alone, more than 92,000 workers in the state have lost their jobs, according to the John J. Heldrich Center for Work Force Development at Rutgers. A shaky economy has put not only low-wage workers at risk; mass layoffs at large companies affected more than 56,000 workers in New Jersey last year, up from 45,173 in 2000, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.On top of that, new research by Rutgers indicates job tenure has declined in the state, especially for men in mid-career. In 1983, the share of men aged 40 to 44 who had been with the same employer for 25 years was 51.1 percent, while last year it was 37.7 percent. 
In response, the governor plans to shift responsibility for the bulk of the state's job training to the Department of Labor, which he says has closer ties to the private sector and more experience with training programs for workers at all levels of skill than the Department of Human Services and the Education Department, which currently administer many of the programs. That is just the beginning of a long-term effort to bring government training plans in closer alignment with the needs of business, Mr. McGreevey said. 
He believes that just as states provide incentives to lure plants or office complexes, developing a competent work force can be an economic development tool, particularly in today's tenuous economy. 
"When I was a young man growing up in the community of Carteret, someone would graduate from high school, walk down to the chemical manufacturing plant and find a job that was going to provide a lifetime of opportunity and benefits," Mr. McGreevey said. "That time has long passed."
Today, workers can expect to change jobs seven times during their working lives, the governor said. "The only aspect that is certain is the ability of a worker to take skills from job to job and opportunity to opportunity," he added. "It is our moral obligation to provide for a skilled work force."
For now, the biggest change in job training proposed by the administration will transfer welfare-to-work training and adult literacy -- now managed by the Department of Human Services and the Department of Education -- to the Labor Department. 
To be sure, some of those who work with training programs for the economically disadvantaged are wary of the governor's plan.
"We are concerned," said Marlene Lao-Collins, associate director for social concerns at the New Jersey Catholic Conference. "We don't believe the Department of Labor is really equipped to deal with this population. These people have a unique set of problems. It's not just about job training. Very often there is substance abuse or mental illness. These people have a whole bunch of other barriers to deal with. I think we're going to have some problems."
Under the plan, expected to be in place by July, the Department of Labor will administer as much as $450 million in state and federal job-training money. To underscore the department's new scope, it will be renamed the Department of Labor and Work Force Development.
Mr. McGreevey said the plan was not expected to save money for the state, which has a $5 billion budget deficit, but he insisted that it would not present the state with any additional costs. The goal, he said, is rather "making the system work better."
At this point, welfare recipients are hoping that this amounts to more than simply rearranging the furniture within the bureaucracy. Many are coming to the end of extensions on their five-year limit mandated by the federal welfare-reform program, Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, that took effect in 1997. In New Jersey, 22,198 welfare recipients are required to work or participate in such training programs.
Asia White has been on and off welfare for two years. A 24-year-old Newark resident, Ms. White is learning how to wire components at a job-training program run by Catholic Community Services with funds administered through the Department of Human Services. She had trouble keeping jobs at a hospital and as a teacher's aide because she had to turn attention to her 2-year old son, who had to be hospitalized for a foot ailment and for breathing problems. 
Ms. White is attending the eight-week program in hopes of earning $28 an hour, and she has little concern about which arm of the state government is administering the program. 
"As long as we're still getting the training for us, it really doesn't matter who is running it," she said.
Carl Van Horn, director of the Heldrich Center for Work Force Development at Rutgers, which has worked closely with the state on developing work force policy, said other states were moving in a similar direction.
Mr. Van Horn noted that while New Jersey was not at the bottom of the heap in terms of job training, it had plenty of room for improvement. 
"I would give us a C," he said.
As for Governor McGreevey's plan, Mr. Van Horn said it represented a radical change from the more traditional practice of tinkering with job-training programs through incremental change. 
"This is really unprecedented in the state," he said.
As he explained it, the confusing web of programs lies mostly in federal mandates, since about two-thirds of the funds come from the federal government.
Still, Mr. Van Horn said, there will be obstacles to the governor's plan, notably an entrenched system of administrators and contractors who oversee the programs, "people who don't want to give up their turf."
But the officials who will lose turf to the Department of Labor -- Gwendolyn Harris, commissioner of the Department of Human Services, and William Librera, commissioner of education -- said they support the new approach.
"Employment is a tangible recognition of our value to society," Ms. Harris said. Through the reorganization, she said, "We'll help people to affirm that." But advocates for the poor fear that the Labor Department lacks the expertise to manage the problems that confront people who are enrolled in welfare job-training programs or seeking literacy help.
D. Miller Jr., president of Legal Services of New Jersey, said he was concerned that welfare recipients and others currently enrolled in job-training programs managed through the Departments of Education and Human Services needed broad counseling services to keep them in training and on the job. Often they are entangled in crises that make it hard to participate in training or employment programs.
"If the landlord is about to evict you, or you have a sick child, you are going to need some very intense case management and guidance as well as cash assistance," Mr. Miller said. "These kinds of services have not traditionally been provided within the labor system nationally, not just in New Jersey."
Nonetheless, Mr. Miller said he would need to see more details about the governor's plan before saying whether he would oppose it. 
"All this is not to say that the current service provision is perfect," said Mr. Miller. "It is not."
For his part, Albert Kroll, commissioner of the Labor Department, said his agency was up to the additional responsibilities.
"We're comfortable that with the cooperation of everyone, we're still going to be able to provide these services," Mr. Kroll said. "If I were not comfortable, I would not push for this."
As he sees it, welfare recipients and others receiving job training will welcome the more streamlined system. Now three departments oversee 20 separate divisions administering the welfare-to-work program, he said.
Holding up a chart showing the state adult literacy programs and how they link into other programs, Mr. Kroll commented, "It looks like a recipe to make a nuclear bomb."
Overall, a network of 484 outside contractors provide services to the three state departments involved in work-force training. Mr. Kroll said it was not clear if there would be any effect on these contractors, many of them nonprofit social service organizations.
Mr. Kroll said contractors should welcome the change because they will have to apply to just one department for work-related grants, all scheduled to expire at the same time.
Tom Blatner, president of Janus Solutions in Hopewell, a private consulting company that has designed work force development programs for Camden, Essex and Hudson Counties, said he supported the changes.
"This recognizes what social services does best, which is determine eligibility and provide the necessary support services, but it moves the work-related dollars into the mainstream of the state's work force development," Mr. Blatner said.
The roots of the consolidation now under way lie in several years of policy analysis questioning the state's strategy for developing its work force. In 1996, the New Jersey State Employment and Training Commission issued a paper titled "Crisis of the Work Force," which criticized government-run training programs for using a "supply side" approach in finding jobs based on the "needs of the agencies" rather than the needs of business.
Henry Plotkin, executive director of the commission, said the state's failure to provide relevant job-training programs bred social inequality.
Mr. Plotkin said that an emphasis on college preparation and a determination to provide equal education to all worked against those who dropped out of school but no longer could turn to manufacturing jobs.
In that regard, Mr. Plotkin said, Western Europe had done a better job in linking education and training to the labor markets. 
"The U.S. is learning it must be more targeted and strategic and nurturing of its work force to stay competitive internationally," he said. "If you do this right, you simultaneously help economic growth and achieve social justice by giving people a fair crack. Under the current system, they're not getting a fair crack."
Mr. Plotkin said government could also help train workers for small businesses, an increasingly important part of the employment market, that did not have the resources to do it on their own.
Mr. Van Horn said government has had to change its approach to unemployment. Beginning in the New Deal era and continuing through the early 1990's, unemployment benefits were meant to smooth out the disruption of temporary layoffs.
"It was intended to hold the work force in place so that it could be hired back when needed," Mr. Van Horn said. "Now the layoffs tend to be permanent. They're never going to be called back." 
In response, he said, government has tried to extend the benefits, and encourage people to invest in retraining. But he said job loss through industrial consolidation and international competition was not going to ease up.
"The only way you can deal with it is mainly with education and training," he said.
To design strong training programs, the state needed to have a better handle on business's needs, Mr. Van Horn said. 
For example, a study prepared by the Heldrich Center for the state's pharmaceutical industry found the higher education system in New Jersey would not be able to produce enough workers to meet projected demand for 15,000 new jobs in the next three years. 
To address Governor McGreevey's concern about the mismatch, Mr. Plotkin said his commission, along with the Labor Department and the Heldrich Center, would soon embark on a survey of businesses in seven leading areas to determine what skills would be needed in the future. 
Currently, he said, the department relied largely on existing job openings to gauge what would be needed.
"That is like generals fighting the last war," said Mr. Plotkin.
He said the results of the survey, which are expected to be ready and made available to schools and other work force development programs in the fall, would help workers adjust to changing labor patterns.
"This will give us a much more forward-looking understanding," Mr. Plotkin said, "so we can be more proactive rather than just reacting as we have in the past."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Asia White, Valerie Usher, Paula Murray and Tanya Woods learn how to wire components during a Catholic Community Services class in Newark, aiming for jobs that pay $28 an hour; Richard Suszek, below, is the organization's chief officer.; Kristin Retlin, a regional director at Catholic Community Services, which receives state funding. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); MEN (77%); CHILDREN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); STATISTICS (69%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (65%) LABOR; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC COMMUNITY SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); WARNER, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



278 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3277 words

HEADLINE: When Mommy Or Daddy Can't Read 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA ROWE 

 BODY:
NELLA BRAIOTTA was 35 years old when she decided to come clean. She had a job as a nursery school aide and was narrating a picture book to a little boy when it happened. The child looked at her accusingly. "That's not the way the story goes," he said. "You're reading it wrong."
 All through her own childhood Ms. Braiotta had faked, pantomiming her way through life, pretending she could understand the words on job applications, medication bottles and on the pages of her beloved Bible. She graduated from high school, but she did not even know what a vowel was. 
 "I thought, 'Oh my God, even a 4-year-old kid can see this,"' said Ms. Braiotta, now 50, who lives in White Plains. "'I've got to do something."' 
Close friends and family knew. For years they had urged her to find a literacy tutor, even as they helped camouflage her deficiencies by supplying Ms. Braiotta with cheat sheets of basic information to hide up her sleeve and copy onto forms as needed. Asking for help from a stranger was a crushing humiliation. But after the nursery school incident, she picked up the phone and called Literacy Volunteers of Westchester County.
"I need help," she said softly. "Basically, I can't read."
A few weeks later Ms. Braiotta was sitting at a small table in the Mamaroneck Public Library, ready to meet her tutor and begin at the beginning.
"It was very hard," she said. "We started with 'A is for Apple. E is for Elephant,' and I'd come home crying to my husband, 'I'm 35 years old, I can't believe I have to do this!"'
So many different categories are within the group of Americans deemed functionally illiterate, and so many different causes, that no single definition applies. The numbers, however, are staggering: More than 20 percent of adults in America -- approximately 44 million people -- have such weak reading skills they find it difficult to fill out a bank deposit slip or to understand an article in the newspaper, according to studies published over the last decade by the National Institute for Literacy. Westchester mirrors this profile, though in certain areas of the county the figures are even higher. 
Those seeking to learn English as a second language -- many of them functionally illiterate in their own tongues -- have further swelled the numbers. 
At Literacy Volunteers in Elmsford, the vast majority of those seeking help are immigrants, many of whom can barely read or write in their native languages. But about 20 percent of clients are American-born, either high school dropouts or elderly people who went to work full time while still children; or, like Ms. Braiotta, students who were funneled into special education programs and passed along with minimal expectations.
After a year of struggling through textbook exercises that explained the sound of "ph" and "th," both Ms. Braiotta and her tutor, Paula Cancro, were discouraged. 
"Nella was my first student and I was terrified," said Ms. Cancro, a 47-year-old corporate computer trainer. "I thought I was doing everything wrong. I was sure I was going to make it worse."
Finally, she asked Ms. Braiotta to bring in something she truly wanted to read, thinking it might provide motivation for them both. She expected to see a novel or some other ambitious work. Ms. Braiotta returned with a copy of Cosmopolitan magazine.
"I thought, 'Well, this is going to be interesting,"' Ms. Cancro said. "But then I realized, of course, this is the kind of thing Nella sees every day, something anyone would want to be able to pick up and understand."
LIKE Helen Keller's epiphany under the water spigot, letters and sounds finally came together as words for Ms. Braiotta within the pages of the women's magazine. After that, she was unstoppable. Next she wanted to learn about the seizure disorder that had been holding her back all her life. It was the reason she'd been placed in special education to begin with, she said, the reason people thought she was slow and the reason she was forced to swallow 21 pills a day. 
Ms. Braiotta and her teacher began by reading simple medical brochures, which led to a support group, which led Ms. Braiotta to discover that her condition had been curable all along. She found a doctor who agreed to perform the needed brain surgery and has been seizure-free for the last 13 years.
"It's very simple," she said. "Reading saved my life."
Now a member of the Literacy Volunteers' board, Ms. Braiotta often speaks with legislators in Albany about her story and the need for financing literacy services. She is a shy, polite woman who has spent a lifetime learning to assert herself. But she remains bitterly angry with the Westchester County public school she says let her down. 
"I faked it for years and I was ashamed all my life about this," she railed. "I resent it tremendously because what's a diploma if I didn't even know my vowels?"
Ms. Braiotta asked that her former high school not be identified -- "they know who they are," she said -- and among literacy experts there is a similar reluctance to blame public education outright. They feel their job is to patch holes, not point fingers. 
Still, Bob Hassinger, program coordinator at the Center for Continuing Education in Yonkers, believes the state's current emphasis on Regents diplomas for all students will result in higher dropout rates among those who can't meet the standard and further contribute to the population of functionally illiterate adults.
Each week, many of them trudge up the steep hill to the center's worn-out building on the former Elizabeth Seton College campus. Some 4,500 come for help each year. Three-quarters have children in the Yonkers schools, Mr. Hassinger said, though the free classes are open to anyone.
In early February, Daniel Hill, dressed in a suit and tie, timidly stepped inside. He was tired of being unable to understand his mail. 
"It hurts me so much to say to people, 'Excuse me, could you read this bill for me? Could you tell me what this letter says?,"' said Mr. Hill, who is 51 and has supported himself with a patchwork of custodial and trucking jobs. "But I was raised in the South, in North Carolina and mostly, we farmed a lot. We didn't go to school much. I have so much anger about all that. I feel like if I'd had the tools, I could have been a doctor or a lawyer or owned my own business."
Currently unemployed, he shows up at the center every day, carrying his homework in a briefcase. After his first week of classes, Mr. Hill broke down in grateful tears.
"There's a lot of people out there just like me, who are ashamed to come forward," he said. "People look down on you if you don't have any education. They treat you sort of bad sometimes."
Among those learning to read in Westchester, Mr. Hill is something of a rarity. At Literacy Volunteers, only 30 percent of the clients are men, and at the Yonkers continuing education center, women have also been the majority, though Charles Whelan, the principal, said that is beginning to change. He believes the shift is a result of the economy and more men being out of work. Others suspect that it is simply more difficult for men to ask for help.
"A lot of the women are single mothers and they come in when their kids start to know more than they do," said Janet Zinman, who has been teaching at the center since 1966. "They say, 'I want to help my child and how can I do that when I can't even help myself?"'
In 37 years as a literacy tutor, Ms. Zinman said the pattern remains essentially the same:
"It's kids who missed the lesson on Monday and come back on Tuesday, lost because they don't know what happened on Monday. By Wednesday, they're saying, 'I'm not going to go to school because I'm so behind I don't even know what's going on."' 
According to federal figures, more than a quarter of adults in Yonkers may have difficulty with base-level skills like deciphering a food label, understanding a bus schedule or reading stories to their children. In Mount Vernon, with more poverty and more immigrants, many of whom had little opportunity to attend school in their home countries, those figures rise to 37 percent. 
For Patricia P. Rajala, the executive director of Literacy Volunteers of Westchester County, the human toll is overwhelming. Her group, which accepts only adults with a fifth-grade reading level or lower, has approximately 350 reading tutors on staff -- all volunteers -- helping 1,100 students. Another 250 pupils have been interviewed, assessed and are waiting for help. At Literacy Volunteers' satellite office in the Yonkers Public Library, 300 people inquire about services each month, though many are referred to other, more appropriate programs. It is Ms. Rajala's greatest thrill to tell someone with an eighth-grade education, "Sorry, you're too good for us." 
Robin Osborne, who coordinates literacy services for the Westchester Library System, said she had found that those learning English as a Second Language often have an easier time asking for help than do lifetime residents in one of the wealthiest counties in the country.
"It's easier to go someplace and say, 'I need to learn English,' than to say 'I'm 25 years old and I never learned to read,"' she said. "There's a lot of stigma, but these people are in our community." And the financial implications, she noted, are enormous. 
A study released by the American Medical Association in 1998 found that people who could not read directions on a medication bottle or fill out insurance forms cost the health care system between $50 billion and $73 billion in excess costs each year. 
"Just think about it," said Dr. Joanne Schwartzberg, the medical association's director of aging and community health. "The average instructions are written at 12th to 17th grade level and the average American is at about an eighth-grade level. Even perfectly literate people sometimes have trouble understanding how to take their medicine, but about half of us can get on the Internet and educate ourselves. The other half of us can't do that."
PEOPLE with low literacy were twice as likely to be hospitalized, twice as likely to say they were in poor health and far more likely to use emergency rooms as a first choice for health care, the study found.
"They said that filling out forms in doctor's offices was very difficult for them," Dr. Schwartzberg explained. "It's usually something they're terribly ashamed of -- over 60 percent of illiterate people have never even told their spouse -- but if you go to an emergency room, someone else fills the forms out for you."
Beatrice Pinckney might well have been standing by and watching. A former nurse's aide at several Westchester hospitals, the 50-something grandmother has worked seven days a week, holding two or three jobs simultaneously since she was 15. She has also raised five children on her own, four of whom she adopted. But she never learned to read. A year ago, one of Ms. Pinckney's grown daughters finally called Literacy Volunteers insisting that her mother get help.
Candace Benson, the tutor assigned to Ms. Pinckney, was amazed: . a woman who had spent a lifetime caring for other people couldn't write a letter. Ms. Pinckney had left school in South Carolina in the seventh grade, traveled north to work as a housekeeper in Scarsdale (lying about her age to the employment agency) and sent money home to her family each month. 
"We were poor," Ms. Pinckney said with a shrug. "When you're poor, you're poor, and that's it."
She watched her employer's children go off to college and then moved on to jobs as a nursing home aide, hospital worker and security guard. Before last November, she had never voted.
Ms. Benson, a 56-year-old artist from Larchmont, asked her pupil, "Do you know the word democracy?" Ms. Pinckney did not.
"This is not a stupid woman," Ms. Benson said. "No one could do what she's done without an innate hunger, even brilliance. Beatrice has that. But she has been cheated out of so much. I asked her: 'Do you know how this country was founded? Do you know the basic principles?' She said no. And when she finally voted last fall, she was elated."
Despite her dignified bearing, Ms. Pinckney giggled like a girl at her tutor's praise.
Now twice a week the two women -- casually dressed Ms. Benson and impeccably garbed Ms. Pinckney -- bow their heads together over workbooks in the Port Chester Public Library. The first texts Ms. Benson chose for her student were fictional diaries about a South Carolina slave who taught herself to read by dusting the master's library. At the time, the older woman did not know how to sound out a word. Now she is working her way through "Death of a Salesman." 
Not every student and tutor make such a perfect match. The work can be slow and frustrating. Both Ms. Benson and Ms. Pinckney had disappointing experiences before they found each other -- a prior charge of Ms. Benson's, aggravated by his sputtering progress, dropped out after she had invested months working with him; Ms. Pinckney's first tutor moved out of the area. To avoid situations like those, Literacy Volunteers asks that each party commit to a year of working several hours each week because that is how long it takes to raise reading skills, and if enthusiasm flags in one person, it can be devastating for the other.
"It's a real commitment," Ms. Rajala said. "But it's a very rewarding one."
Certainly it was for Ms. Braiotta, whose brain was altered in the most dramatic way when she finally learned to read. But what she savors most are the everyday changes. Her husband, she said, laughing, no longer has absolute control over the checkbook, since she has learned to take care of the banking. She reads aloud in Bible study instead of shaking her head and shrinking away, and best of all, she can curl up with a romance novel -- Barbara Taylor Bradford is her favorite -- gleefully telling her husband: "You'll have to wait for dinner. I've got to finish reading this chapter."

Assessing Reading Levels
THOSE who sailed through school and are watching their children do the same might consider appropriate fifth-grade reading to be "Black Beauty" or "Harry Potter." But for adults with low literacy, being rated at the fifth-grade level is not quite the same.
"For us, the definition is closer to seeing if someone can understand the directions on a packet of Jell-O," said Patricia P. Rajala, the director of Literacy Volunteers of Westchester County. "Adult literacy is more about being able to use information appropriately and act on it."
Literacy Volunteers of America has developed a standard assessment test. Here are examples of passages used to determine reading levels:
First- to second-grade level: 
We went fishing. I got two fish. They almost took my line. A boy got the big one. It took the worm. It was a cold day.
Approximately fifth-grade level:
I went fishing with my brother this weekend. He just bought a new Star Craft but the engine wouldn't start. We had to use an old boat but we didn't care because we were excited about fishing. We caught a couple of bullheads and a 14-inch trout. We can use the new boat the next time. We didn't mind as long as we had some fish.
Eighth-grade level (if a client can read and understand this passage, Literacy Volunteers of Westchester recommends that they enroll in a G.E.D. program): 
Last week my car developed motor trouble. I decided I needed a new valve job for one thing. Also somebody had stolen three parts of the carburetor so I had to have those replaced. The car had to be in the repair shop for about four days. Some parts probably had to be ordered from a wholesaler because a mechanic usually doesn't have them in stock. 

In a Family That Reads Together, Children Benefit
FOR many parents, teaching young children their own names or the words for shapes and colors is so rudimentary that it barely warrants a second thought. But literacy experts estimate that in thousands of homes in New York, there are no picture books to introduce these basic concepts, and no adult able to read them aloud.
The relationship between family life and literacy skills was identified nationally in 1989, after Bill Goodling, then a Congressman from Pennsylvania, observed that it made little sense to pour millions of dollars into schools if students were going home to parents who were functionally illiterate. A mother who could not read a teacher's note or understand her child's report card did not bode well for that student's chances of success. A federal program, Even Start, was begun to teach entire families how to read together. The government now spends some $250 million on that effort each year.
There are 80 Even Start programs in New York State, serving immigrant families, incarcerated families, families living below the poverty line and white, working-class families. Westchester and Dutchess Counties have four chapters -- in Tarrytown-Sleepy Hollow, Yonkers, Beacon and Poughkeepsie.
At the Tarrytown-Sleepy Hollow program, Susan Gitlitz-Tucker works with the local school district, library and child care center to guide 25 Spanish-speaking families through everything from learning to write their names to using computers. Many of the parents never progressed beyond the second grade in their own countries. Ms. Gitlitz-Tucker and her staff members teach them about Shakespeare in preparation for a trip to see "Romeo and Juliet" onstage. No matter that none have ever been to a play before. Ms. Gitlitz-Tucker is thinking ahead to the day when their children will come home from school, assigned to read theater as literature. 
"Most of our families didn't even know what a library was when they started with us," she said. 
Few had ever written a letter. They routinely spent $1 to buy a single 37-cent stamp at their corner bodega when posting bills rather than going to the post office. Some were afraid. Others did not know better. Often, their children -- addressed by pet names at home -- could not answer when asked in school: "Who are you? What is your name?"
"That was really something that shocked me when I first started working here," said Lourdes Parra, an Even Start tutor. "They didn't know their names."
Ms. Gitlitz-Tucker said: "These kids come in immaculate and well fed, but they're not prepared to sit in a circle, to listen or answer questions. Most have never been read to because our families don't have books in their homes. All of those things we often take for granted, our families aren't doing because they don't know how."
Still, persuading adults to let go of old ways and commit to Even Start's intensive, long-term course is not always easy. In Beacon, which opened a program last October, 11 families have signed up, though there is money for 48.
"The challenge is to get families to trust us," said Margaret Pfaff, the executive director of Literacy Volunteers in Dutchess County. "These are people who've had failure at every turn, particularly institutionally. They're shy. They're uncomfortable. But no matter their educational or economic background, I have never yet met a parent who didn't want things better for their child. Once we reach them on that level, we've won. All of them want a better life for their kids, and that is the ultimate goal."
If you want to help:
Even Start welcomes family literacy volunteers. Call Ms. Gitlitz-Tucker at (914)332-0209 for information.
Literacy Volunteers of Westchester County has tutor training sessions running March through April and April through May. Call (914)592-2656 for information.
A Web site, www.firstfind.info, which is a project of the Westchester Library System, is designed to help those with low reading skills understand and navigate the Internet. CLAUDIA ROWE

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Hill, below left, gets help with reading from his instructor, Jeff Jones, at Yonkers Center for Continuing Education. Paula Cancro, who first tutored Nella Braiotta, left, joins her at the White Plains Public Library. Ms. Braiotta decided 15 years ago that she needed to learn to read. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Students work in an adult education class at the Yonkers Center for Continuing Education, above. Helen Esposito, left, a literacy voluteer, helps a student with her reading at the center. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times); Mothers and children work together at the Sleepy Hollow Even Start program. Center: Rosa Galabay works on a scrapbook with daughter, Andrea. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (91%); PARAEDUCATORS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LITERACY RATES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (70%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); RELIGION (70%); IMMIGRATION (62%); MULTILINGUALISM (60%); REFUGEES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (58%) READING AND WRITING SKILLS; TUTORS AND TUTORING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (82%) LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA 

PERSON: BRAIOTTA, NELLA; CANCRO, PAULA; ROWE, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



279 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: IN THE SCHOOLS; 
State Cuts Will Mean Scrambles for Tuition

BYLINE:  By MERRI ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
ERIN MALLAY loves being a student at Sarah Lawrence College.
 She loves it so much that its daunting price tag didn't deter her or her parents -- her father is a police officer and her mother is a Catholic schoolteacher in Brooklyn -- from enrolling. 
 "I go to a very expensive private school, and it's not easy," Ms. Mallay said. "Tuition is some $30,000 a year, and I don't have that. I'm on work study, and I work 15 to 20 hours a week in the college, do other jobs for people, and work during the summer. Every year I scramble." 
If Gov. George E. Pataki's budget proposals concerning cuts in state aid and tuition increases at the state university system are approved, the yearly scramble to piece together tuition, fees and living expenses will be even harder for students like Ms. Mallay. Under the governor's proposed budget, students who receive financial aid under the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) would be required to take out loans to make up one-third of their TAP grants, with the loan payment deferred until after graduation. TAP is state financial aid program for low- and middle-income full-time students. 
"The rationale, from the conservative line, is that there's a lot of waste in education spending, that there are students who take five, six, seven years to graduate," said Brian Nickerson, director of the Michaelian Institute at Pace University in White Plains and a professor of political science there. "It doesn't make good public policy sense. This is a shortsighted policy. This hurts the vast majority of students throughout the state. Pace is a tuition-dependent institution, and there are a number of students who are reliant on their TAP awards. The proposal would force universities to withhold collection of that money until students graduate."
For students at the State University of New York's public campuses like Purchase College, the governor's proposal to raise tuition by $1,200 carries still further hardships.
"A tuition increase of $1,200 that affects 400,000 students across the state is $180 million," said Michael Stock, student government president at Purchase. "That's an incredible chunk of money. We're starting to assess how bad the damage is going to be."
For their part, state officials said, such steps may be necessary, given current economic exigencies.
"The state is looking at drastically reduced tax revenues, with New York faced with particular challenges," said David Henahan, director of media relations for the State University of New York in Albany, and the chancellor's press officer. "Forty-eight out of 50 states will be raising tuition in the fall, and 30 states will be cutting state aid to higher education. SUNY hasn't raised tuition in seven years." Annual tuition at the state four-year campuses has been $3,400.
At Westchester Community College, where tuition was recently increased to $2,450 (about $1,100 less than the average at other community colleges in the state), administrators are also concerned about the impact on their students.
"Hundreds of students could lose access to higher education," said Dr. Joseph N. Hankin, president of Westchester Community College. "If the TAP cut goes through, it will be a disaster for students. If they won't get a third of what they're going to get, it's a burden. Every time we raise tuition by $100, we lose about 1 percent of our student body." 
The governor's proposal would also cut the college's reimbursement about $4.5 million, Dr. Hankin said.
Dr. Hankin is also worried about a less noted feature of the governor's proposal, which has to do with aid that colleges receive for renting space at other sites. 
"We have classes in Roosevelt High School in Yonkers, in Peekskill, at the Cross County shopping center and elsewhere," said Dr. Hankin. "We pay $1.8 million in rent, and we get back about $900,000 from the state. We are the largest renter of space of all the state's community colleges. We stand to lose $4.5 million if the governor's budget goes through."
For Patricia Cann, a student at Westchester Community College who is pursuing a double major in computer science and liberal arts/social science, any financial aid cut is a serious matter.
"I can't get a personal loan," said Ms. Cann, a 23-year-old resident of Patterson, in Putnam County. "I depend on federal grants and state aid to go to W.C.C. If I can't find the money, I can't attend."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mothers and children work together at the Sleepy Hollow Even Start program. Center: Rosa Galabay works on a scrapbook with daughter, Andrea. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TUITION; STUDENT LOANS 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); ROSENBERG, MERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



280 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: IMPACT; 
Theaters Silent, Rest of Broadway Shudders

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The musicians' strike that has shut down much of Broadway began taking its toll on theater-district businesses yesterday as restaurants and hotels started fielding cancellations.
 Some economists said that if settled quickly, the strike would inflict only limited damage on the city's economy over all. Others said that if it dragged on past the weekend, losses would snowball, especially considering the collateral damage to restaurants, hotels, taxis, group ticket agents and other businesses dependent upon Broadway. 
 "Even though the theaters themselves aren't a huge part of the local economy, they are part of the economy that draws people to New York," said Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan city agency. "Tourism has a multiplier effect that lots of economic activity doesn't, because it's money that wouldn't be here otherwise." 
The theaters and producers yesterday estimated the cost to the theaters alone at more than $1 million for every performance missed at the 18 theaters that have been closed by the strike. That translates into $4 million to $5 million in lost ticket sales for the weekend, said Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers.
Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism office, said a rough estimate of the city's overall losses for the weekend was about $7.2 million.
At Orso, a restaurant on West 46th Street with a reputation for being booked weeks in advance, Kevin Albert, the manager, said at least half of all the reservations for yesterday and for lunch today had been canceled.
Many worried about the possibility of further tarnish to the city's image.
"It's also the negative image that this sends about New York City," Ms. Nicholas said. "You look at the stories in today's papers about all these people that have planned for months and years to come to Broadway. This is very damaging."
She added: "What we've learned with tourism is there are other cities that are competing for our business. They have bigger budgets and better means to compete, and they also have Broadway. It's not the real Broadway, but they have Broadway productions in other cities. I don't think we can take this lightly."
The tourism industry in New York City is not easy to quantify. Some economists said it remains a relatively small part of the city's economy, dwarfed even in hard times by such industries as finance, business services and health care. But others insisted that Broadway's influence is greater than it appears, even if difficult to measure, because it draws outsiders into the city, bringing with them outside money. Ms. Nicholas said there were 300,000 tourism jobs, and she put direct tourism spending at $17 billion a year. Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist who writes The New York STAT, an economic newsletter, had a more conservative estimate of the number of people employed in the industry -- 200,000 -- which still makes up about 5.5 percent of the city's economy.
Jason Bram, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York who published a paper on tourism and the city's economy in the mid-1990's, said tourism accounted for a relatively small share of economic activity. The city's economy is driven by the financial sector, and by such things as broadcasting and publishing, he said.
As for the musicians' strike, he said, "I can't imagine it having any measurable effect on the city's economy or even much of a psychological impact outside those individuals that it's close to or the industry itself." He added, "It would seem to me that going to see musicals is something people would postpone rather than just scrap."
The last Broadway strike, in 1975, lasted three weeks. Nine musicals were forced to go dark, Mr. Bernstein said. When the strike was settled, he said, all of the shows reopened and ran for at least the rest of the season. But he said it was unknown whether that would happen again in light of the weak economy, the possibility of war and the competitive nature of entertainment.
"We have twice as many shows open on Broadway now than we did then," Mr. Bernstein said. "We have a much stronger and vibrant Off-Broadway community. Television, movies, virtual reality: the entertainment menu has expanded so drastically that the opportunity for people to find other entertainment options has increased exponentially."
At the Hotel Edison on West 47th Street, only one person had called to cancel citing the strike, the resident manager, John J. Gleeson, said. He said nearly one-third of all weekend guests came for the theater. At McHales, a bar at Eighth Avenue and 46th Street, the manager, Bob DeMange, said more than half of his business was theater-related. "It'll be disastrous today and tomorrow and I think in general because of no theater," he said. "It's terrible. Everyone wants to go back to work, I'm sure, and I just hope they end it as soon as possible."
Bruce Sterman, an owner of two Manhattan Chili Company restaurants -- one on West 43rd Street, the other on Broadway at 53rd Street -- was busy making contingency plans. He said he had toyed with everything from asking his landlords for a rent reprieve to pumping up his delivery business, screening movie musicals and moving into wholesaling vegetarian chili. "Coming after 9/11, we just got back to a decent level of business," he said. "And the economy has started to tank. And we've got the no-smoking law coming in and I don't know what that's going to do to business. And now this.
"My wife and I looked at each other this morning, we're just shaking our heads," he said. "In any case, I feel like it's a challenge to my entrepreneurialism."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking Broadway musicians played only outside theaters yesterday. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TOURISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LODGING (78%); TRENDS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TICKET SALES (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%) THEATER; STRIKES; MUSIC; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS; NYC & CO 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY; NICHOLAS, CRISTYNE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



281 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 8432 words

HEADLINE: The Power of the Fourth 

BYLINE:  By Deborah Sontag; Deborah Sontag is a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
The 19th-century courthouse that houses the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit sits across from a CVS and a Dress Barn on a desultory stretch of Main Street in Richmond, Va. The entrance -- peeling "Pull" sign, metal detector, dim lobby -- is not awe-inspiring. But upstairs in the courtrooms, beneath the pendulous chandeliers and the oil portraits of former jurists, a hush prevails. Whether or not the judges are on the bench, people whisper. It is as if they tacitly accept that the atmosphere should continue to be rarefied even as the judicial process becomes increasingly polluted by politics. 
 This 148-year-old building, once the site of the Confederate Treasury, is where you go if you are appealing the decisions of federal judges or juries in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina or South Carolina. It's the last stop before the Supreme Court, which, given how few cases the highest court actually hears, essentially makes it the court of last resort for those seeking justice in this region. Let the plaintiff beware, though; the Fourth Circuit is considered the shrewdest, most aggressively conservative federal appeals court in the nation. 
 
 On the last Tuesday in February, Lisa Ocheltree of Lexington, S.C., settled warily onto a hardwood bench in a courtroom carpeted in billiard-table green. Several years ago, Ocheltree won a substantial jury verdict in a sexual-harassment suit against her former employer. The jury found that vulgar language, crude sexual commentary and sexual acting-out created an extremely hostile working environment for Ocheltree as the sole woman in a costume-production workshop. But a three-judge panel of the Fourth Circuit overturned that verdict late last year. "Were they telling me that I should have just sucked it up?" Ocheltree asked. She petitioned the full court to reconsider the panel's 2-to-1 decision, and the judges agreed to take her case en banc, which they hardly ever do.
 And so all 12 judges were about to file in and take the bench, affording a rare glimpse at the dynamic of the entire court. Ocheltree's lawyer was nervous: a three-judge panel of the Fourth Circuit provides a grilling, but this would be a full-court press. Ocheltree, however, was determined not to be intimidated. "Just because I'm a blue-collar worker doesn't mean I'm gonna let the black robes scare me," she said. "It may be the South, but it's the 21st century."
 Geographically, the Fourth Circuit, one of 13 federal courts of appeals, is not the most southern. But it is singularly genteel: its judges descend from the bench to shake lawyers' hands after oral arguments. And as recently as 1999, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist led the Fourth Circuit's annual judicial conference in a traditional rousing sing-along that included "Dixie." This always offended civil rights lawyers and the few African-American lawyers in attendance. But it never surprised them.
 It was not until the year 2001 that the Fourth Circuit, which has the largest African-American population of any appellate jurisdiction, became the final federal appeals court to be racially or ethnically integrated. Many consider the court to be a legacy of Strom Thurmond and Jesse Helms because the former senators from the Carolinas played a key role in shaping it through patronage appointments and obstructionism. Indeed, President Bush's most recent appointment to the Fourth Circuit, Dennis W. Shedd, is a former chief of staff to Thurmond; his pending nominee, Terrence Boyle, is a former Helms aide unsuccessfully nominated by Bush's father more than 10 years ago. 
 Although President Bush may or may not get the chance to name a new Supreme Court justice this year, he is busy trying to fill 25 federal appeals court vacancies, including 3 on the Fourth Circuit, with the backing of a newly Republican Senate. He already has 16 nominees waiting for confirmation. And despite the occasional Democratic filibuster, he appears poised to transform the federal judiciary -- which includes 179 appeals judges at full strength -- back into an overwhelmingly conservative bench. In 12 years between them, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush established a Republican majority on every appeals court. Clinton, facing stiff resistance from an opposition Senate for six of his eight years, pushed that back somewhat so that Bush inherited a Republican majority on 8 of the 13 appellate courts, with 3 more poised to swing Republican through his appointments. And those appointments, because they are for life, could reverberate for generations. Judge H. Emory Widener Jr. of the Fourth Circuit, who is 79, was named by Richard Nixon31 years ago.
 As Bush makes his selections, his staunch conservative supporters tout the Fourth Circuit as a model to emulate, and liberals view it anxiously as a harbinger of doom. That's because the Fourth Circuit, which has eight Republican and four Democratic appointees, is not only conservative but also bold and muscular in its conservatism. It is confident enough to strike down acts of Congress when it finds them stretching the limits of the federal government's power and hardheaded enough to rule against nearly every death-row defendant who comes before it. 
 To critics, the Fourth Circuit lacks compassion for the individual. To admirers, the Fourth Circuit is a welcome corrective after years of soft, liberally activist benches, a brilliant court with a healthy respect for the concerns of prosecutors, of business owners, of state officials -- and of the Bush administration, which received deference from the court to treat a United States citizen captured in Afghanistan as an "enemy combatant" who could be detained without charges even on American soil.
 Helms once told a North Carolina newspaper that the furor in Washington over judicial nominations was out of whack with the sentiments of the public: "You go out on the street of Raleigh, N.C., and ask 100 people, 'Do you give a damn who is on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals?' They'll say, 'What's that?"' 
 He had a point. Few pay much attention to federal courts below the Supreme Court level. But they should. The appellate courts, created in the late 19th century to relieve overcrowding of the Supreme Court's docket, decide about 28,000 cases a year compared with the highest court's 75 or so. Practically speaking, they have the final say in most matters of law; their reach is broader, if not deeper, than the Supreme Court's itself.
 Judges on the Fourth Circuit say that they just follow the Supreme Court's lead. And it is true that the Fourth Circuit is the appellate court closest in thinking to the Rehnquist Court. But the relationship is symbiotic: the Fourth Circuit does not just imitate; it also initiates. It pushes the envelope, testing the boundaries of conservative doctrine in the area of, say, reasserting states rights over big government. Sometimes, the Supreme Court reins in the Fourth Circuit, reversing its more experimental decisions, but it also upholds them or leaves them alone to become the law of the land. There is a cross-fertilization, which could see its apotheosis this spring: the Fourth Circuit is dominated intellectually by two very different conservative judges, J. Harvie Wilkinson 3rd and J. Michael Luttig, both of whom are leading candidates for the next Supreme Court vacancy. 
Judge Karen J. Williams, 52, a tall, slender woman with delicate features and a regal carriage, wrote the decision overturning the jury verdict in Lisa Ocheltree v. Scollon Productions. The federal law that prohibits sexual harassment in the workplace, as she phrased it ever so piquantly, is not a "neo-Victorian chivalry code designed to protect" the "tender sensitivities of contemporary women." 
 Williams eloped at 17 with her teenage sweetheart, gave birth to four children, taught school, commuted to law school and eventually became a lawyer in her husband's private practice in Orangeburg, S.C. She was appointed by former President Bush in 1992 on the recommendation of Strom Thurmond, a friend of her father-in-law's, then the president of the South Carolina State Senate. At Williams's investiture, Thurmond and her father-in-law reminisced about how they used to double-date. 
 Williams, in the self-mocking "baby judge" speech that newly appointed jurists make at the annual judicial conference, said that Thurmond "maneuvered my hearings so that I would be the first woman on the circuit and his nominee." Thurmond, she said, liked to be on the cutting edge, and he just plain liked women too. In the course of the confirmation process, Williams added, a Justice Department official pointed out to her that her race was listed incorrectly on her driver's license. "We finally knew then how I got it," she said jokingly, referring to the judgeship. "Not only was I a female, but they had me as a black female." Some laughed; others cringed.
 Once a month, the judges, whose annual salary of $164,000 is higher than that of senators, travel from their home states to Richmond to hear a week of oral arguments. They sit in three-judge panels randomly selected by a computer program and invariably encounter a rich menu of human dramas and hot-button issues. They hear everything from bankruptcy cases to international child-custody disputes, from race discrimination claims to environmental battles over wetlands. In the January hearings, they debated whether Norfolk, Va., could use an anti-loitering statute to keep an elderly couple from protesting abortion on a bridge over a highway and whether animal-control officers in High Point, N.C., were stripping pit bull owners of their Fourth Amendment rights by killing their dogs. They examined three cadets' contention that the mealtime prayer at the Virginia Military Institute was unconstitutional and an Israeli immigrant's appeal of his conviction for interfering with a flight crew when, on the three-month anniversary of 9/11, he behaved so oddly that the pilots made an emergency landing. 
 The full Fourth Circuit rarely sits to review the decision of one of its three-judge panels. When it does, though, critics say that it uses this en banc procedure to overturn liberal decisions that slip through, and there are plenty of supporting examples. But with Ocheltree, the judges were sitting in reconsideration of a quite conservative decision, one that would greatly limit the ability of employees in the region to make successful claims of sexual harassment. They were also addressing the sensitive issue of the sanctity of jury decisions.
 Williams was the author of an infamous decision several years ago. The Fourth Circuit ruled that the liberal Warren Court's landmark 1966 ruling in Miranda v. Arizona was not constitutionally based, and as such that an obsolete Congressional statute trumped it. More than 30 years ago, the statute was a stillborn attempt to overrule the court's holding that criminal suspects must be apprised of their rights through what have become known as Miranda warnings. It was never enforced and largely forgotten until the Fourth Circuit resurrected it. And Williams's decision helped cement the Fourth Circuit's reputation as a judicially active conservative court. But the Supreme Court reversed it, 7 to 2, with Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, the two most conservative justices and President Bush's self-proclaimed favorites, dissenting. In that instance and several others, the Fourth Circuit's effort to nudge the Supreme Court toward greater conservatism backfired. Still, the Supreme Court has upheld 36.5 percent of the Fourth Circuit's decisions over the last decade, infinitesimally better than the average. It is, at the very least, a dialogue. 
 The Fourth Circuit does not march in conservative lock step, however, and its intellectually vibrant judges do not constitute an ideological cabal. The court often reaches consensus across the ideological divide; some of its work is nonideological in nature. Sometimes the majority lets liberal decisions stand; other times even the most conservative judges issue opinions that seem to betray their ideological stripes. And often the fiercest legal arguments are not between the liberals and the conservatives but between conservatives themselves. 
 Yet when it comes to high-profile decisions, the Fourth Circuit tends to divide neatly along party lines. And taken together, those decisions not only bespeak a conservative philosophy of law but also serve a conservative political agenda. Among its many decisions, the Fourth Circuit has upheld the minute of silence in Virginia schools; ended court-ordered busing in Charlotte; upheld state laws that stringently regulate abortion clinics or require parental notification or ban so-called partial-birth abortions; ruled that the Virginia Military Institute could remain all male as long as there was a separate but comparable education for women; upheld a Charleston, S.C., program that tested maternity patients for illegal drug use without their consent and turned the results over to the police; overturned a Virginia prohibition against license plates bearing the Confederate flag; ruled that the F.D.A. didn't have the authority to regulate nicotine as a drug; and, most recently, overruled a West Virginia federal judge's efforts to strictly limit mountaintop mining that buries Appalachian streams beneath piles of fill and waste. 
 As the Ocheltree hearing opened in a packed courtroom, the bailiff intoned the traditional blessing: "God save the United States and this honorable court." The judges took their seats in leather swivel chairs, with the brand-new chief judge, William W. Wilkins Jr. of South Carolina, in the center. Wilkins started his career as a clerk to Judge Clement Haynsworth of the Fourth Circuit (whose Supreme Court nomination by Nixon was rejected by Congress) and then went on to become an aide and campaign director for Thurmond. He was the first federal judge appointed by Reagan.
 J. Harvie Wilkinson 3rd had technically stepped down as chief judge after seven years, as required by law. But he was sitting just off-center, and he still dominated, he and Luttig, each in his own way. 
 A warm, gracious and patrician Virginian, Wilkinson, 58, appears slight and owlish in his civilian clothes -- blue blazer, gold buttons -- yet commanding in his robes. The son of a banker, the future judge attended boarding school at Lawrenceville and college at Yale before returning to Virginia to study law. While a law student, he ran as a Republican candidate for Congress; when he got 30 percent of the vote, he jokes, he took it as a mandate to finish law school. He eventually taught law and served as editorial-page editor of The Norfolk Virginian-Pilot. (This didn't keep The Pilot from editorializing against his appointment to the bench in 1983, saying that he lacked courtroom experience.)
 Wilkinson was confirmed at the age of 39, and he and Luttig share the experience of having been judicial Wunderkinds. Luttig points out that at the time of his appointment in 1991, he held the distinction of being the youngest judge on a federal appeals court. He was 37. 
 The two judges share other distinctions as well. They both clerked for Supreme Court justices they still revere -- Wilkinson for Lewis F. Powell Jr. and Luttig for Chief Justice Warren Burger as well as for Antonin Scalia when Scalia was an appeals court judge. Both worked for Republican Justice Departments and participated in judicial selections, Wilkinson under Reagan and Luttig under the first Bush. Luttig shepherded Clarence Thomas through his contentious confirmation, and pictures of Thomas hang on his chambers' walls, including one inscribed "This would not have been possible without you! Thanks so much, buddy!" (Luttig's three clean-cut male clerks will head to the Supreme Court next year to clerk for Thomas, Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy.)
 These similarities between Wilkinson and Luttig, and their keen legal minds, initially created a natural alliance between them. Luttig, a native of Tyler, Tex., said that he used to spend more time talking with Wilkinson than with any other judge on the court. They are still friends, he said. But the years have clarified the differences in the two judges' styles and their jurisprudence, and they often parry and thrust in their decisions, with Luttig going for the direct and Wilkinson the indirect jabs. Often Wilkinson and Luttig end up voting the same way, but "there's this very antagonistic sideshow," said Rodney Smolla, a University of Richmond law professor. 
 Wilkinson writes essayish opinions filled with the kind of rhetorical flourishes that I imagine him composing with a quill pen. He often goes beyond facts and analysis to hold forth. He ponders, he digresses, he philosophizes. Wilkinson is the rare judge who speaks publicly and writes books; in his recent "One Nation Indivisible," he assailed affirmative action and ethnic separatism. Occasionally he injects his personal views on, say, racial quotas into his legal opinions. When he takes issue with "my fine colleagues," he does so in the most courtly manner possible, always striving to emulate Justice Powell as "a healer and bridge builder," he said. In fact, taking me by surprise, he grew quite emotional when telling me how rancorously divided the legal community, the political community, even the country has become. His voice grew insistent, then caught, and his eyes moistened.
 "I don't believe in throwing salt in people's eyes," he said. "It's very important to me that the country come together. There are so many wounds, and we ought not pick at scabs. The legal culture especially is too polarized. There's too much throwing of pitch and tar and mud."
 Luttig, in contrast, is not given to bursts of inspirational speaking and does no public speaking. Down-to-earth and likable in private, he comes across publicly as intense, austere and unsentimental. "He goes out there with piercing ideas and steel-trap analysis," Smolla said. Luttig sees himself as a legal "nerd," worships analytical rigor and composes a hard-boiled, sometimes mathematically logical opinion. He does not hesitate to gore his colleagues if he finds their thinking subpar. "If any opinion is without reasoning or poorly reasoned, I want them to be embarrassed by their analysis so as to continually improve on the process," he told me. He can be particularly scathing toward Wilkinson -- "Judge Wilkinson misunderstands this issue altogether" -- and he'll criticize him for contradicting himself or for making pronouncements that go beyond a specific case.
 Attorneys who go before Luttig know about one central event in his life: that his father was brutally murdered nine years ago, that he moved his chambers to Texas during his father's killer's trial and that the killer became a cause celebre for death-penalty opponents before he was executed. Some wonder if it makes him less objective; Luttig has never granted a new hearing to a death-row defendant. He brushes their concerns aside; the experience affected him -- how could it not have? -- but it didn't warp him. 
 Many lawyers also assume that Luttig is more conservative than Wilkinson. But the law journal Judicature recently evaluated the decisions of six possible Bush nominees for the Supreme Court and found Wilkinson to be furthest to the right -- exceptionally conservative. It found Luttig the second least conservative of the six. "Did you see the Judicature article?" Luttig asked me, and he also made sure that I had read some cases in which he took unexpectedly liberal positions. He is loath to be predictable and eager to be perceived as more moderate in anticipation of a Supreme Court opening.
 In one case, Luttig took issue with Wilkinson's finding that police officers in Prince George's County, Md., couldn't be held liable for violating the constitutional rights of Nelson O. Robles. The officers had tied Robles to a pole in a parking lot in the middle of the night with a note at his feet stating that he was wanted on an outstanding traffic warrant by a neighboring county. Wilkinson, while condemning the officers for behaving like Keystone Kops, said that they could not have known that they were violating Robles's constitutional rights because it had never been specifically enunciated that what they did was such a violation. 
 Luttig argued pungently, but unsuccessfully, that Wilkinson's decision should be reviewed by the full court: "I would like to have thought that at this point in our history no court would hold, as did this panel, that law enforcement officers need an opinion from this court in order for them to be on notice that handcuffing a pretrial detainee to a metal pole in a deserted shopping center at 3:00 a.m. in the morning, and abandoning him there, for no law enforcement purpose at all, is unconstitutional." 
 Wilkinson and Luttig do not like to talk about the possibility that they will be competing for a nomination as soon as this spring if, say, Chief Justice Rehnquist, 78, or Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, 72, steps down. But during Ocheltree's hearing at the Richmond courthouse, the subject was in the air. 
 Since 1995, for so long that she is beginning to feel and sound like a crusader, Lisa Ocheltree, 41, has been pursuing her claim against Scollon Productions, a manufacturer of life-size costumes for mascots like the South Carolina Gamecock and characters like Tommy Pickles.
 She filed suit under a civil rights law, Title VII, that sees sexual harassment as a violation of the prohibition against workplace discrimination because of sex. Some sexual-harassment claims involve a quid pro quo; others, like Ocheltree's, assert a hostile work environment. Unfortunately for Ocheltree, she has ended up before the appeals court least likely to be sympathetic to any such claims.
 Plaintiffs in sexual-harassment suits prevail in only 21 percent of their appeals before the Fourth Circuit, according to a recent Cornell Law Review article. They win, in contrast, 80 percent of the time in the New York-based Second Circuit, which is dominated by Democratic appointees, and 39 percent of the time nationwide. 
 When Ocheltree, now a U.P.S. employee, worked at Scollon Productions, she was the only woman in an otherwise all-male production shop. Over time, the atmosphere grew more coarse, she said, until it was dominated by sexually explicit conversation and behavior. 
 A co-worker pinched the nipples of a mannequin while another fell to his knees and simulated oral sexon it. A co-worker teased her with a dirty song while others, including her supervisor, laughed at the show. A colleague tried to get her to react to a photograph of a man with his genitalia pierced. During Ocheltree's trial, a male co-worker said that the other men would routinely fondle the mannequins because they knew it bothered Ocheltree. 
 Ocheltree complained about the environment during an employee meeting, and she was rebuffed repeatedly when she tried to get an audience with the company's senior executives. After about 18 months at Scollon, she was fired. A federal judge summarily dismissed her complaint, but, representing herself, she appealed that judgment to the Fourth Circuit, which determined that she had grounds for trial. A jury awarded Ocheltree $7,280 in compensatory damages and $400,000 in punitive damages. The judge reduced the damages to $50,000 because Scollon is a small business. Nonetheless, Ocheltree said that her victory restored her "sense of honor and dignity," even though the men at the plant "are laughing to this day."
 Scollon Productions appealed the jury's verdict to the Fourth Circuit, contending that Ocheltree's description of the workplace environment was exaggerated and that the crude behavior wasn't directed at Ocheltree anyway. The three-judge panel assigned the case included Williams, Paul V. Niemeyer, appointed by Bush in 1990, and M. Blane Michael, a bow-tie-wearing Clinton appointee from West Virginia. Williams and Niemeyer voted to reverse the jury's decision, and Michael was the dissenter. 
 It is a role that Michael, who keeps a large photograph of Clinton's inauguration on his chambers' walls, often exercises. There have been other instances in which it has pitted him against Williams too, although he told me that their personal relations are cordial. Still, Michael wrote the dissent in the Miranda case and in one in which Williams found that people with symptom-free H.I.V. are not protected by the Americans With Disabilities Act. 
 Michael said that Williams and Niemeyer chose "again and again" to see the evidence in a light favorable to Ocheltree's employer rather than to Ocheltree. They were ignoring the fact that the jury found Ocheltree to be the credible party, and they were ignoring their obligation to respect a jury's finding, he said. There is, he wrote, "a profound difference in our respective approaches to reviewing a jury verdict." 
 In a spirited opinion, Williams wrote that there was no reason to believe that the vulgar atmosphere in the workshop had anything to do with Ocheltree's presence or the fact that she was a woman. The incidents were isolated, and the rest was banter, she said. The courts shouldn't treat women preferentially by insulating them from everyday insults. And further, she added, there was some indication that Ocheltree herself was not a "model of femininity."
 In his dissent, Michael wrote that a reasonable jury would conclude that the men at Scollon Productions resented Ocheltree's intrusion into their workplace and had set out to make her unwelcome. He said that the "overall tenor of the workplace banter conveyed the message that women exist primarily to gratify male desires for oral sex." In a workplace suffused with representations of women as sexual objects, a female worker "would doubtless wonder," he wrote, whether her male co-workers were looking at her and asking themselves "whether she 'swallows"' or whether she could "'suck a golf ball through a garden hose."' 
 Ocheltree was devastated that the Fourth Circuit decision was written by awoman. "Just because she sits up on that bench, she still puts her pantyhose on one leg at a time," she said. "If all the male judges were sitting around talking about oral sex, I wonder how she'd feel then."
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt famously set out to overhaul the federal judiciary ideologically. Confronting courts that were thwarting his New Deal projects, he strove to create liberal ones that would grant the government more power to regulate the economy. Decades later, Reagan displayed a similar purposefulness, screening judicial candidates using ideological "litmus tests" in order to choose jurists who were strict constructionists, tough on crime, anti-abortion and pro-family. 
 Between them, Reagan and the first President Bush named six judges to the Fourth Circuit; those six joined Nixon's appointee, Widener, to form a solid conservative core. On other courts, the transformation to conservative has been more startling. The two Deep South appellate courts, for instance, used to be civil rights crusaders. But until the Carter judges retired, the Fourth Circuit was, if not liberal, at least more balanced.
 Clinton put a priority on diversifying the federal bench, picking up where Carter had left off. Despite an uncooperative Senate, he succeeded in getting a record 9 black, 7 Hispanic and 20 female judges confirmed.
 Yet the Clinton administration never saw its role as reasserting ideological balance on the courts. When Clinton took office, the appeals courts were solidly Republican, but his administration did not feel compelled to find liberal powerhouses to counter the conservative heavyweights appointed by Reagan and Bush. "Some in the White House argued very forcefully that their job was not to put on the federal bench the liberal equivalents of the Luttigs and the Wilkinsons," said Nan Aron, president of Alliance for Justice, a liberal coalition. Clinton was not a die-hard liberal himself, and he tended to nominate centrist legal professionals in tune with his more centrist politics. Still, he faced intense partisan battles, particularly over his minority appointees, and the acrimony continued through Bush's first two years, affecting not just the political arena but also the courts themselves.
 Luttig told me that he thinks the politics surrounding judicial appointments makes judges hyperconscious of their political sponsors. "Judges are told, 'You're appointed by us to do these things.' So then judges start thinking, Well, how do I interpret the law to get the result that the people who pushed for me to be here want me to get?" he said. "I believe that there's a natural temptation to line up as political partisans that is reinforced by the political process. And it has to be resisted, by the judiciary and by the politicians."
 Clinton named four white judges to the Fourth Circuit without much battle, including one, William B. Traxler Jr., of Greenville, S.C., who was first elevated to the federal bench, on Thurmond's recommendation, by former President Bush. Traxler votes so often with the conservative majority that court watchers forget he's a Democratic appointee. The other three -- Blane Michael and Robert B. King of West Virginia and Diana Gribbon Motz of Maryland -- are unofficially the dissenters. 
 In contrast to his smooth experience with getting the white judges confirmed, Clinton tried at least four times to name an African-American to the Fourth Circuit. His nominees were blocked every time. Jesse Helms still bore a grudge from Clinton's failure to renominate his former aide Terrence Boyle, after Boyle's nomination by the first Bush had elapsed. Helms then blocked, as is the home state senator's power, every Clinton nominee from North Carolina, including two African-American judges. As a result, there is no one from North Carolina on the Fourth Circuit now, although proving that even a retired Helms can get his way, President Bush has a pending nominee from North Carolina -- and that is Boyle.
 During his period of obstructionism, Helms insisted, and Thurmond publicly concurred, that the matter had nothing to do with race or politics. It would simply be a waste of taxpayer money, Helms said repeatedly, to fill vacancies on the Fourth Circuit when the chief judge, Wilkinson, thought the court would function less efficiently if it were bigger. (And clearly it would have if it became less ideologically homogeneous.) 
 Clinton finally tried an end run around Helms by nominating a Virginian, a soft-spoken African-American lawyer named Roger L. Gregory. Gregory comes from a small town in rural Virginia where his parents worked in the local tobacco factory. He grew up to found a Richmond law firm with L. Douglas Wilder, the former governor of Virginia. He gives inspirational speeches to black youths. His nomination had bipartisan support. But even Gregory couldn't get a hearing scheduled. 
 So Clinton resorted to an extraordinary tactic. During his last days in office, after Congress had recessed, Clinton unilaterally appointed Gregory to the bench. President Bush, eager to demonstrate bipartisanship and win support for his own candidates, eventually allowed Gregory's temporary appointment to become permanent. In July 2001, the Senate confirmed him 93 to 1, with Trent Lott casting the dissenting vote. The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals was officially integrated.
 In his "baby judge" speech at the Fourth Circuit judicial convention last summer, Gregory cited Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman, setting a new kind of precedent for the court. He also joked that he was welcomed to the Richmond courthouse by someone who pointed out that the Confederate President Jefferson Davis's office used to be right near his new chambers. "That was very reassuring, you can imagine that," Gregory said. 
 In a study of capital convictions and appeals between 1973 and 1995, Prof. James S. Liebman of Columbia University Law School found that the Fourth Circuit granted relief to death-row inmates less frequently than any other appeals court in the country. Even at that point, and it has gotten more restrictive since, the Fourth Circuit was overturning 12 percent of the death sentences it reviewed: that compared with an average 40 percent reversal rate for federal appeals courts. "There are other conservative courts of appeal but none that are a black hole of capital litigation like the Fourth Circuit," said John H. Blume, director of the Cornell Death Penalty Project, who represents South Carolina prisoners. 
 When Kevin Wiggins's case came up before the Fourth Circuit in January 2002, he was on death row in Maryland, trying not to get his hopes up. A federal district chief judge had invalidated his death sentence and voided his conviction for murder. Theoretically, he should have gone free. But the state appealed. And Wiggins knew, because death-row prisoners know these things, that the odds of winning in the Fourth Circuit weren't good. 
 In February, I visited Wiggins in the C-pod of the Maryland Correctional Adjustment Center in downtown Baltimore. When a guard unlocked the door to a narrow concrete visiting cell, Wiggins was already there, staringblankly through a scratched glass partition. Wearing a white undershirt, his face round with a wisp of a mustache, he was itching to get talking. And talk he did, like a balloon releasing air, his words a jumble as he dizzyingly flicked back and forth in time.
 Matter-of-factly, Wiggins described himself as "a nobody with no family and no skills." He had a nightmarish childhood, according to information gathered by a forensic social worker hired by his present lawyer. His mother was alcoholic, neglectful and abusive. When he was 6, Wiggins was removed from his mother's home after she burned him severely with a hot plate in punishment for playing with matches. He then endured a series of foster homes in which he was beaten, locked in closets and repeatedly raped. He emerged into adulthood as a barely educated loner who lived in rented rooms and worked at minimum-wage jobs. He was of "borderline intelligence," according to state social-service records.
 Wiggins had no criminal record when he was arrested at age 27 for the murder of an elderly woman. The State of Maryland maintained that Wiggins drowned Florence Lacs, 77, in her bathtub in 1988: he was working as a painter in her building, and he and his girlfriend were found in possession of Lacs's credit cards and car. There was no forensic evidence linking Wiggins to the murder, though there was unidentified forensic evidence -- fingerprints, hair, fibers and a baseball cap left at the scene. Still, in a bench trial, a state judge convicted Wiggins of robbery and murder.
 During the subsequent sentencing trial, Wiggins's inexperienced public defenders decided to reargue his innocence instead of presenting a case for why he should get life not death. They did not even bother to investigate his background to discover whether he possessed the kind of "social history" that is routinely used to humanize a defendant and mitigate against the imposition of the death penalty. 
 Wiggins has now been on death row since 1989. In 1993, a high-powered Washington lawyer, Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., took on Wiggins's case pro bono, and it began wending its way through the postconviction review and then the state appeals process. Verrilli found the case against Wiggins to be weakly circumstantial at best, offering evidence only that Wiggins was a logical suspect. Verrilli said he came to believe that Wiggins did not commit the crime but rather served as the "fall guy for people more clever than him." Specifically, there is a plausible alternative to the course of events involving Wiggins's girlfriend, who was 15 years his elder. All charges against her were dropped, and she testified against Wiggins; her brother, it seemed, lived in an apartment below the victim's.
 The case's first stop in federal court was at the bench of Maryland's United States chief district judge, J. Frederick Motz, who happens to be married to Judge Diana Motz, a Clinton appointee on the Fourth Circuit. Judge Frederick Motz is a former federal prosecutor appointed by Reagan; he is not, as he said in court one day, "an anti-capital punishment person." In a 55-page opinion, he concluded, "No rational finder of fact could have found Wiggins guilty of murder beyond a reasonable doubt." He invalidated the murder conviction and threw out the death sentence too.
 I asked Wiggins whether he was happy when Motz took his side. "It's hard for me to be happy about anything," he said. Wiggins told me that he could remember only one joyful time in his life. It was after his mother burned him. Six years old, he awoke in a hospital bed, surrounded by nurses who clucked over him, petting his hair and bringing him cookies. 
 When Maryland prosecutors decided to appeal to the Fourth Circuit, Motz publicly questioned their desire to continue pursuing what he characterized as a flimsy case. "Why isn't this case of moral concern to the state?" he asked. "Or don't you care?" 
 At the Fourth Circuit, Wiggins drew a panel of three Republican appointees -- Wilkinson, Widener and Niemeyer. In a hearing last winter, the judges appeared to be wrestling with the case; they doubled the time they usually allot attorneys to present their arguments. Last May, however, in a decision written by the 79-year-old Judge Widener, the panel ended up reinstating Wiggins's conviction and his death sentence. The panel gave the original trial judge the benefit of the doubt; it deferred to his assertion that he based his decision of Wiggins's guilt on a totality of evidence and that he did not infer Wiggins's guilt from his possession of the victim's property. And it ruled that the public defenders' failure to present Wiggins's background during the sentencing hearing was a trial tactic rather than negligence.
 And yet the panel had some hesitations. Judge Wilkinson wrote that he couldn't "say with certainty" that Wiggins committed the murder. And Judge Niemeyer acknowledged that it was something of a close call to find that Wiggins had adequate counsel. 
 "I think that most circuit courts, if they have real doubts about what has happened in a capital case, they will reverse," Professor Liebman said. "The Fourth Circuit doesn't have the same threshold. In this case, they saw the tripwire and stepped right over it."
 Verrilli petitioned the Supreme Court, and in a hearing scheduled for March 24, the court will pick up Wiggins's case, continuing its dialogue with the Fourth Circuit's decision-making. Since 1996, the Supreme Court has reviewed far more death-penalty cases coming from the Fourth Circuit than from any other appeals court -- 9 from the Fourth Circuit alone and 12 from the other 11 appeals courts combined. The 1996 date is significant because in that year Congress passed the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, limiting federal courts' review of capital cases to those in which there's "an unreasonable application of clearly established federal law." That "unreasonableness," however, is open to interpretation, and while the Fourth Circuit has chosen to see its hands tied, other circuits have granted themselves more wiggle room. The Supreme Court is thus mediating the conflict between the circuits, trying to help them figure out when it is appropriate and inappropriate to defer to the state courts' judgments.
 Generally, the Supreme Court upholds the Fourth Circuit's tough stance in death-penalty cases by a 5-to-4 vote, dividing ideologically. Take the Virginia case of Walter Mickens Jr., whose lawyer, it turned out, had at one time defended Mickens's 17-year-old victim. A rare liberal panel of the Fourth Circuit found that Mickens's lawyer had a conflict of interest. But the Fourth Circuit did not want to let that reversal stand; it met en banc and reinstated his conviction. The case then went to the Supreme Court, which agreed, 5 to 4, with the Fourth Circuit's full panel: it held that the lawyer's conflict of interest didn't matter since Mickens couldn't prove that it adversely affected the outcome of his case. Last June, Mickens was executed by lethal injection.
 In two important rulings on how to interpret the 1996 law, however, the Supreme Court reversed the Fourth Circuit, finding that the Richmond court had chosen to read the statute too narrowly. In one case, the Supreme Court, unlike the Fourth Circuit, found the state court's judgment "unreasonable" for failing to recognize that the legal representation of Terry Williams, a Virginia inmate, was so ineffective that it didn't meet minimum constitutional standards for competency. Like Wiggins's, Williams's lawyer didn't investigate his horrific childhood; his lawyer was subsequently disbarred for mental disability. 
Many, if not most, appeals judges show a pattern to their judging over time. 
 Wilkinson has granted a new hearing to a death-row prisoner once in 19 years, according to a South Carolina Law Review article. In contrast, Judge Francis D. Murnaghan Jr. of Maryland, who used to be the Fourth Circuit's pre-eminent liberal, granted relief to about one out of three death-row prisoners who came before him.
 Yet no judge wants to be seen as tailoring his decisions to his ideology, as bending the law to determine preconceived results. Every judge will tell you that he or she comes to each case with an open mind, seeing a distinct set of facts that raises distinct legal questions. 
 Wilkinson said he feels strongly that judges should never be rated and ranked as if they were politicians whose votes could be counted. He said that the statistical analyses of judges' decisions, followed by the affixing of a label of liberal or conservative, is reductive. 
 "I don't go on the bench as liberal or conservative," Wilkinson said. And yet he does not dispute that he is a conservative jurist. He acknowledges his place among those who came of age concerned about "the excessive activism" of the Warren Court. The Warren Court was seen as having overstepped its bounds with rulings that expanded equal protection, the right to vote, criminal defendants' rights and the right to privacy. Conservatives, in contrast, preached judicial restraint.
 Yet the conservatives now controlling most of the nation's federal appeals courts, Wilkinson is one among many who have come to a new appreciation of judicial activism. Like the "new federalists" whose conservative thinking increasingly influences the legal mainstream, Wilkinson said he believes that the Constitution is more than just a Bill of Rights. He doesn't think that the Bill of Rights has been overemphasized, he is quick to say, but that what he calls "the structural Constitution" has been underemphasized.
 "That body of the document that spells out the relationship between the federal government and the states was neglected for far too long," he said. "The power of Congress was seen as unlimited and that of the states as a virtual nullity." Wilkinson has found it exciting, he said, to be engaged in redressing this imbalance, which sometimes means striking down Congressional acts that seem to usurp state power unconstitutionally.
 But he notes, because he is of judicious temperament, that judicial activism is "heady wine" and that retraint is still the greater virtue. Everything in moderation.
 Luttig takes exception to the view that striking down Congressional laws necessaily constitutes judicial activism. "Remember, it's sophomoric to think that invalidation of a statute equals judicial activism," he said. "Judicial activism means deciding a case based on one's own personal predilections, regardless. It might well take the form of sustaining a law that should be stricken."
 Several years ago, in an opinion written Luttig, the Fourth Circuit struck down a key provision of the Violence Against Women Act.As Luttig saw it, Congress had established a federal civil right that didn't exist in the Constitution - the right to be free of crimes of violence motivated by gender - and then established the additional right for victims of such violence to sue their aggressors for damages in federal court. Congress had justified the law based on the idea - which Luttig clearly finds ridiculous - that gender-motivated violence is a national problem with a dampening effect on the economy and interstate commerce and that states have not risen to the task of tackling this problem.
 Luttig ruled that Congress had overstepped its authority.
 A three-judge panel of the Fourth Circuit originally heard the appeal, upholding the constitutionality of the Violence Against Women Act, as had 17 of 18 federal district judges who had reviewed it. But the full Fourth Circuit vacated the liberal decision, taking the case en banc. Motz, the Clinton appointee, hinted in her dissent that her colleagues were motivated by their distaste for the act itself. "Judges' policy choices provide no basis for finding a statute unconstitutional," she wrote.
 The case went up to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court agreed with the Fourth Circuit, 5 to 4, striking down the right of rape victims and abused women to sue in federal court under this statute. The Supreme Court version of the Fourth Circuit's ruling became the law of the land, and the Fourth Circuit and the Supreme Court jointly reinforced the principle that Congress's powers are limited.
 Luttig's opinion, though, went beyond the Supreme Court's rhetorically. He began, "We the People, distrustful of power, and believing that government limited and dispersed protects freedom best, provided that our federal government would be one of enumerated powers, and that all power unenumerated would be reserved to the several States and to ourselves."
 Cass Sunstein, a University of Chicago law professor, said that no court had issued such a battle cry for states' rights since before the New Deal.
 During the nearly two hours that the Fourth Circuit debated her case, Ocheltree, dressed in a pin-striped pants suit with a white handkerchief sewed into the breat pocket, sat anonymously on a pewlike bench, holding her husband's hand in a tight grip. The judges didn't even know she was there. Her feathered dirty blond hair fell over her eyes a few times, and she tossed it back. Other than that, she was frozen, riveted by the theater of the bench, which veered occasionally into Grand Guignol.
 Chuck Thompson, the lawyer for Scollon Productions, who used to clerk for Senior Judge Clyde H. Hamilton, a Republican appointee to the Fourth Circuit, wore a red bow tie. "May it please the court," he said. He didn't get a chance to say very much more. This was the judges' show. Karen Williams, author of the pro-employee decision, spent more time arguing Scollon's case than Thompson did. Michael, the dissenter, rolled his eyes and defended Ocheltree; Motz fired a few one-line zingers. Luttig, wagging his finger, told his fellow judges where their legal reasoning proved inadequate and instructed the lawyers for both sides what their argument should be.
 "I'd have to disagree with you," Thomspson ventured at one point.
 "You can't!" Luttig retorted. "You can't disagree."
 Wilkinson, perennially concerned with civility, exuded disgust at the locker-room atmosphere being described and exasperation with colleagues for rehashing the ugly details of the case. "Who enjoys what and who enjoys whom," he said, his voice booming, "that's not for an appellate court to decide." For Wilkinson, the bottom line seemed to be that there was a jury verdict, and his remarks hinted that he was disinclined to overturn it.
 Luttig, however, didn't seem certain that the jury verdict was defensible, and he scolded Ocheltree's lawyer, William Elvin Hopkins Jr., 36, for failing to make his best case. As Luttig saw it, the crux of Hopkins's challenge was to explain why Ocheltree was discriminated against if the locker-room atomosphere predated her arrival at Scollon. "You'll lose if you don't better answer that before this panel," he said. Luttig suggested this theory: Most men would stop such salacious talk once a woman was in their midst and if they didn't, it was precisely because she was there. Their behavior may not have changed, but their motivation did, he said.
 When the conversation bacame graphic, Widener, whose eyes had been closed, seemed to startle into participation. "You're asking us to hold that when there's an all-male shop, a woman can walk in and say, 'Give me the money!' "
 Williams agreed: there was no reason for Ocheltree to have been any more offended than her male colleagues by sexually explicit conversation, not in an age when magazines feature articles about how much women enjoy oral sex.
 As in most oral arguments I observed, Gregory, the African-American judge who joined the court in 2001, didn't grandstand. When he speaks, though, he doesn't mince words, slices to the core and if the subject is discrimination, he gets it. Title VII is not about sex or race, he said; it's about power. And the incidents with the mannequin speak volumes, he said: "The problem with the mannequin is that it became almost and effigy, if you will, of the plaintiff."
 As Ocheltree left the courthouse, still holding her husband's hand, she said that she felt the court would do the right thing when it issued its decision later this year. There was no real basis for her optimism, though, not in the court's track record or in the questions the judges asked at her hearing. It could go either way, but the odds are not with Lisa Ocheltrees or the Kevin Wigginses, not in the Fourth Circuit or, for that matter, in an ever increasing number of appellate courts in this country.
 Legal scholars talk about the pendulum swinging from liberal to conservative, from a preoccupation with individuals right to a preoccupation with states' rights, and suggest that, in time, it will swing back once more. It would certainly help many Americans sustain their faith in the system if the courts could find their equilibrium, if they could become less ideological, less predictable and less political. That doesn't appear to be on the horizon, though, not in the foreseeable future. In the historic site in Richmond where the Confederacy once thrived, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit is ushering in the 21st century.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Paul V. Niemeyer, H. Emory Widener Jr., William W. Wilkins Jr. (chief judge), J. Harvie Wilkinson 3rd, J. Michael Michael Luttig, Roger L. Gregory, William B. Traxler Jr., M. Blaine Michael, Karen J. Williams, Diana Gribbon Motz, Robert B. King, Dennis W. Shedd.; J. Harvie Wilkinson 3d, and J. Michael Luttig dominate the Fourth Circuit, each in his own way, and may be rivals for a seat on the Supreme Court. (Neal Slavin); Bush's most recent appointee to the Fourth Circuit is Dennis Shedd, a former chief of staff to Strom Thurmond. The senator and president at ameeting called to discuss the delay in confirming Shedd. (Kim Kim Foster, Kevin Lamarque/Reuters); The odds are against the Fourth Circuit's reinstating a jury decision that Lisa Ocheltree was a victim of sexual harassment on the job. (Neal Slavin). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); APPEALS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (86%); LOBBYING (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CONSERVATISM (69%); METAL DETECTORS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003 



282 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1984 words

HEADLINE: What if a Pension Shift Hit Lawmakers, Too? 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
AS members of Congress prepare to reform the pension system, they might want to think hard about the proposals on the table. A new study has examined what would happen to their own retirement benefits if the changes that some favor for other workers were applied to them. The answer might give them pause.
 Virtually every senator and representative would lose out, the study found -- in some cases by hundreds of thousands of dollars -- if their current Congressional pensions were switched to a controversial variant called a cash-balance pension. 
 One big loser, for example, would be Representative Rob Portman, a major sponsor of the House Republicans' pension legislation. He had built up a pension benefit worth $337,857 by the end of 2002, if taken as a single payment, the study found. But if Mr. Portman had instead earned his benefits under a cash-balance plan, he would get $239,185, based on an age of 48 and 10 years of service. 
Mr. Portman will turn 48 this year. (The study used approximate ages in calculating the hypothetical totals.)
The study, done by the Congressional Research Service, shows that other members of Congress would suffer losses of varying amounts, depending on their ages and years of service.
Congress will be deliberating on significant pension legislation in the coming months, including proposals that would affect benefit levels and the strength of the pension system itself. An especially contentious debate is looming over regulations proposed by the Bush administration on how companies could convert their traditional pension plans to the cash-balance variety.
The existing Congressional pension plan is generous, and no one is really planning to trade it in for a new, stripped-down version. For years, however, private-sector employers nationwide have been replacing traditional pension plans with newer ones that are generally meant to be less costly for the companies to offer, but that in many cases yield smaller benefits, or transfer all the risk to workers. 
Seen in that context, the Congressional Research Service study shows how well members of Congress are insulated from some trends in the private sector.
Since the 1980's, hundreds of large companies have switched from traditional to cash-balance plans. These plans combine features of the traditional pension with yet another type of retirement plan, the 401(k), in which employees manage their own retirement money and sometimes receive matching contributions from employers. They are called cash-balance plans because employees periodically receive notice of a hypothetical cash balance that they can track as it grows.
In theory, the cash-balance pension has virtues that make it superior to the 401(k): it is paid for and managed by the employer, and it is guaranteed by the federal government; a 401(k) has no such guarantee. But in the real world, companies that have converted traditional pension plans to the cash-balance variety have reduced some employees' retirement benefits sharply. The worst losses have generally befallen older workers.
Statistics on the trend are sketchy. But a 2002 audit of 60 corporate pension conversions by the Labor Department's Office of Inspector General found that in 13 cases -- about 20 percent -- workers were deprived of retirement benefits. They were losing about $17 million a year because companies used improper calculations in making the conversions.
Extrapolating these lost benefits to the hundreds of pension conversions across the country, the office said, the affected workers "may be underpaid between $85 million and $199 million annually." The office called for heightened regulatory vigilance.
Even assuming proper calculations, cash-balance pensions can mean lower payments than in the traditional approach. Cash-balance plans differ from traditional plans, which are set up to let workers build the biggest part of their benefit in the years just before they retire. The idea was to promote worker loyalty by giving workers an incentive to stay with one company. 
Many graying baby boomers in traditional plans may not know it, but now that they are passing 50 and amassing the bulk of their pensions -- they are becoming very expensive to their employers. Companies that have converted to cash-balance pensions have been able to reduce labor costs by ending their traditional plans before many workers enter this high-accrual stage.
Cash-balance pensions build benefits moreevenly over the course of a worker's career. For some people, they can yield larger benefits than traditional plans, particularly for younger workers who often jump from job to job.
In switching to cash-balance pensions, some companies have notified employees in technical jargon or euphemisms that have left workers clueless about what is really happening. But as older employees started to realize that the conversions could mean individual losses in the tens of thousands of dollars, they began to pepper the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission with age-discrimination complaints. Some have filed class-action lawsuits against their companies. The most prominent case, still pending, affects more than 140,000 employees at I.B.M.
In 1999, the Internal Revenue Service, which regulates pensions, placed a moratorium on conversions, to give specialists a chance to sort out their legality. 
Now the Bush administration has proposed regulations that would settle the issue, laying out basic rules for making cash-balance conversions legal. Public comment will be accepted until Thursday, and hearings are scheduled for April 9. If the proposed regulations take effect, the moratorium will be lifted. 
CRITICS of cash-balance plans fear that an end to the moratorium would prompt a flood of pension conversions. They and their advocates in Congress doubt that the regulations would adequately protect older workers.
"There are millions and millions of workers today who are scared to death that the pensions they have been promised, that they have worked their whole life for, will not come through," said Representative Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent who has long opposed cash-balance pension conversions.
Proponents of cash-balance pensions have argued that conversions are usually harmless. They note that some companies have voluntarily sweetened their cash-balance plans after older workers complained.
In general, members of Congress who have served the longest would face the greatest losses if they were given a cash-balance payout. 
Patrick J. Purcell, the Congressional Research Service economist who conducted the study, said he worked with each lawmaker's age and years of service without knowing whom the numbers applied to, "so there would be less reason for people to question the results." 
He then used standard actuarial methods to compress each pension -- normally taken as a lifelong stream of monthly checks -- into a lump-sum payment. 
Calculating the lump-sum value made comparison possible with cash-balance benefits, which are normally given in a single payment.
Mr. Purcell then calculated what the lawmakers' hypothetical cash-balance benefit would be if they had had such a pension from the day they entered Congress. That approach made for a more straightforward comparison and possibly gave an advantage to the cash-balance plan. In practice, some of the most harmful effects of pension conversions occur because employees undergo the change at midcareer.
MR. PORTMAN, the Ohio Republican, was unavailable for comment on the study. But a spokesman, Jim Morrell, noted that in 2001, Mr. Portman sponsored legislation requiring companies to notify employees of the way their benefits would be affected in cash-balance conversions. That bill is now law.
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, earned a pension worth $508,266 under the existing plan, based on an age of 70 and 18 years of service. Under a cash-balance plan, he would have received only $161,623, according to the study.
Mr. Grassley is also the former chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging and is active on pension issues. A spokeswoman, Jill Gerber, said Mr. Grassley could not comment on the new findings without seeing the study.
The study also found that Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, had earned a benefit worth $608,143 at the end of 2002 under the current plan. In a cash-balance plan, Mr. DeLay, a Texas Republican, would receive $251,086, or 59 percent less, based on an age of 56 and 18 years of service. 
Mr. DeLay did not respond to a request for comment.
Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker, qualified for a Congressional pension worth $540,572 at the end of 2002. He would qualify for $164,455 in a typical cash-balance plan, the study found, based on an age of 61 and 16 years of service .
Mr. Hastert's press secretary, John Feehery, questioned whether it was fair to single out members of Congress for scrutiny when the entire federal compensation system is skewed toward smaller paychecks and larger pensions compared with the private sector. 
"The Treasury Department and Congress are looking at ways to make sure that any conversion is fair," he added. "But on the other hand, many companies, given the economic downturn, are faced with the possibility of not being able to offer any plan at all. And that also would be bad for employees." 
Ms. Gerber noted that pension conversions in Iowa, Senator Grassley's state, generally make it clear that companies are backing away from traditional pensions. In the mid-1970's, there were about 1,100 pension plans in Iowa, she said, but now there are fewer than 400. With some companies deciding not to offer any pensions at all, she said, Mr. Grassley sees a need to find some balance between protecting workers' benefits and offering employers incentives to stay in the pension system.
"The anti-cash-balance people are just anti-cash-balance," she said. "But if you just make cash-balance plans illegal, what are the plan sponsors going to do?" 
The Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan branch of the Library of Congress, did the study at the request of Mr. Sanders, who has introduced legislation opposing cash-balance conversions in the past -- none of it successful. He said he hoped the new findings would "show the hypocrisy" of colleagues who would let other people undergo pension conversions but would not have to suffer ill effects themselves.
"If they think a cash-balance plan is good enough for American workers, why don't they convert their own pensions?" he asked in an interview.
HE said he intended to introduce legislation this week that would force Congress to put its money where its mouth is: it would require the conversion of all Congressional pensions to the cash-balance type if the legislators allow the administration's proposed regulations to go forward. 
Mr. Sanders himself would lose 72 percent of his pension if that happened. Based on an age of 61, with 12 years of service, he qualified for a $416,159 lump-sum payment at the end of 2002. In a cash-balance model, he would have received $115,850.
He would not comment on the prospects for his cash-balance legislation. Perhaps more pragmatically, he said he would also introduce legislation to require companies converting their pensions to let each worker choose whether to keep the old plan or go with the cash-balance plan. 
Some companies have done this voluntarily, he noted. 
"Kodak has done that," he said. "Motorola has done that. CSX, which is the new secretary of the Treasury's company," had done that, he said, referring to John W. Snow, who was chief executive of CSX, the railway company, before Mr. Bush appointed him in December to replace Paul H. O'Neill. As Treasury secretary, Mr. Snow has authority over the proposed regulations. 
All of those companies converted, Mr. Sanders said, "but they gave workers the choice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, House members John A. Boehner, Rob Portman (at podium), Michael G. Oxley and J. Dennis Hastert. Congress was the subject of a recent pension study. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Representative Bernard Sanders of Vermont opposes conversions of typical pensions to cash-balance plans. (Paul O. Boisvert); Charles E. Grassley, above, head of the Senate Finance Committee, and Tom DeLay, right, House majority leader, would be among losers in a cash-balance pension. (Associated Press); (Doug Mills/The New York Times); Kathi Cooper, the lead plaintiff in a suit challenging I.B.M.'s conversion to a cash-balance pension, calls the plan a form of age discrimination. (Tim Parker)(pg. 10) Chart: "Future Shock?"Workers with cash-balance pension plans can get far less at retirement than workers with traditional plans. While cash-balance plans can save employers money, critics have focused on how some plans have hurt older workers. Pension accrual by age from a study of two hypothetical plans Graph tracks cash-balance pension and traditional pension from age 25 to 65. (Sources: Steve J. Kopp and Lawrence W. Sher, The Pension Forum, Vol. 11, No. 1)(pg. 10) Chart: "Breaking With Tradition"In a survey of large American employers, the percentage of employees with cash-balance pension plans increased to 16 percent in 1999 from 2 percent in 1990. Type of employee pensions Graph tracks percentage of cash-balance pensions, traditional pensions and other from '85, '90, '95, '99. Note: Does not include 401(k)s (Source: Hewitt Associates SpecBook)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RESEARCH; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FRINGE BENEFITS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (82%) CONGRESS (US); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE 

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (90%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%) WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



283 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2A; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: OSCAR FILMS; 
It's Never Too Early for the Campaigning to Begin

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
FIVE contestants vie for a single coveted prize, judged for their work, their popularity, their looks and style, as well as for their ability to maneuver through an obstacle course of cutthroat campaigning.
 These are not gym-buffed bartenders from Bayonne and conniving, surgically enhanced models from Cucamonga. These are some of the most famous faces in the world, forced into a "Survivor"-like situation by a naked desire for the acceptance of their peers, the adulation of the audience, the lucre of greater fame and, well, immortality. 
 Talk about a fear factor.
In the end, they are live on global television, before an audience said to be a billion strong, the pitiless camera on their yearning faces as the lone winner is announced. In that instant, every bit player can be transformed into Joe Millionaire, every plunging neckline has a chance to become a real American idol, not with some measly 14 minutes of quasi celebrity but with a reserved space in the history books alongside Cagney and Hepburn. 
The purveyors of reality television have got nothing on the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
The campaigning for the Oscar -- quite probably the most famous award in the world, apologies to Alfred Nobel -- often begins even before the cameras start turning. As soon as an announcement arrives in the trade papers that Nicole Kidman has signed to play the tragic heroine in one of next Christmas's prestige releases (this year it was "The Hours," next year it's "Cold Mountain"), the publicists begin whispering in all the right ears: Isn't it a perfect role for Nicole? Doesn't it have Oscar written all over it?
Then, during the shooting, more whispers from the set: She's really hitting it out of the park again.
And before you know it, Ms. Kidman's name is turning up on all the various slick magazine lists and Internet sites devoted to forecasting the next year's Oscar race -- even before a single film has been seen.
By the time the film is shown to its first industry audience, and the campaigning can begin in earnest, the buzz and expectations have been carefully cultivated.
Then, studios start spending their money -- on trade-paper ads ("For your consideration"), publicity tours and television appearances, private screening parties, question-and-answer sessions for Hollywood opinion makers and potential Oscar voters, full-page and two-page newspaper ads far beyond what is required merely to release the movie.
Stars and directors are sent on grueling, bicoastal marathons of public appearances and interviews. In one 10-day stretch just before the Golden Globes, Stephen Daldry, the Oscar-nominated director of "The Hours," made the rounds of film festivals, screenings, cocktail parties and other events public and private. A veteran of the London stage, he was astonished at the pace. "I am new to all of this," he said, "so I do still find it kind of fascinating." In the old days, when most of the academy voters were also on the payroll of one or another of the major studios, the campaigning was done along company lines: MGM executives would put out the word on which of their efforts was to be the top pick, and employees were expected to cast their ballots accordingly.
The modern, excessive Oscar campaign -- combining lots of expensive advertising with personal appearances by Oscar hopefuls at places where potential voters are likely to congregate -- was pioneered by Miramax Films in the 1990's. By the decade's end, it had been emulated by most of the other ministudios and several of the majors, and it has now become expected Oscar-season behavior.
"All of the campaigning does dismay me," said Kathy Bates, an Oscar winner in 1991 for "Misery" and a nominee this year for "About Schmidt" and in 1998 for "Primary Colors." "Because some studios and some people can afford to do more of it than others, so it's not a level playing field."
Michael Caine, who is a two-time Oscar winner (for "Hannah and Her Sisters" in 1987 and "The Cider House Rules" in 2000) and who has been nominated four other times, including this year for "The Quiet American," says that smaller players can use Oscar campaigning to level that playing field.
"I've been promoting 'The Quiet American' since September," Mr. Caine said. "There have been interviews, screenings, question-and-answer sessions, and I think I've been to all of them. I probably wouldn't get involved if it was a big movie from a big studio where they were spending a lot. But on this film I was the only publicity there was, so I had to do everything."
The bottom line for the studios, of course, is money. 
Once a film gets one of the top Oscar nominations, it begins to attract audiences that otherwise might not have been inclined to see it. "The Hours," a serious and challenging film with high aspirations but a somewhat depressing story line, saw its box-office numbers go up 58 percent in the weekend after the Oscar nominations were announced. The numbers for "Chicago," another Oscar front-runner, went up 18 percent, while those for "Gangs of New York," which had begun to fade from its pre-Christmas wide release, shot up 99 percent.
"I think that, unfortunately, this sort of campaigning has happened to independent films as well as big-studio films," said Julianne Moore, who is a double nominee this year for "Far From Heaven" and "The Hours" and who had been nominated twice before ("Boogie Nights" in 1998 and "The End of the Affair" in 2000). "These things have such economic value to the studios that this is what starts happening. You don't want it to become about that, but there's nothing you can do about it."
Scott Rudin, a powerful and respected producer, has made a career out of turning Oscar-bait projects into movies, including "Nobody's Fool" (1994), "The Truman Show" (1998) and "Wonder Boys" (2000), although, astonishingly, he had never been nominated before producing "The Hours." But he has been a keen student of the Oscar races.
"I definitely think there's a lot more campaigning to it these days," Mr. Rudin said. "But I still have confidence that the academy voters vote on the merits. I believe they take it very seriously. They're not interested in who spent the most money on the campaign. They're going to vote for the movie that they believe will stand the test of time."
As screenwriting gurus have been explaining to generations of aspiring authors, the classic Hollywood screenplay is a story in three acts. So naturally, that is how the Academy Awards have been structured.
The first act involves the building of suspense as a field of dozens of hopefuls is narrowed by a series of lesser awards ceremonies like the Golden Globes. At the first-act climax, the Oscar nominations are announced.
Now we are in Act II -- the antagonists well known to us, our loyalties formed, the climactic battle just around the next corner.
In the first round of Oscar voting, the more than 5,600 members of the academy are divided into their various branches -- the actors vote for the acting nominees, the directors for directors and so on, with everyone voting in the best-picture category. In this second round of voting, however -- which is to end on March 18, when all ballots are due at the academy's Wilshire Boulevard headquarters -- all members have the chance to vote in all categories.
So the second-act game is slightly different: it becomes more about picking your favorite team and pushing it in multiple categories. And there is still room for maneuvering. In some categories, like best foreign-language film and best documentary feature, voters are required to attend screenings of all five nominees before being allowed to cast a ballot. Attendance is taken. 
That was why United Artists, the specialty film division of MGM, took out a full-page ad on the back of Daily Variety in late February alerting voters to the screening dates and times not only of its nominee, Michael Moore's "Bowling for Columbine," but of all four other nominees in the documentary category. "If you loved 'Bowling for Columbine,' you will want to read this important voting information below," the ad proclaimed.
The climactic act, of course, is the ostentatiously glamorous television event, on March 23, in which starlets in skimpy gowns and borrowed jewels will parade down the red carpet for the cameras of the world -- and everyone will finally find out which four nominees have been voted off the island.
And then we begin again.
Jeffrey Wells, in his Hollywood Elsewhere column on the Web (moviepoopshoot.com), is already picking his favorites for next year's Academy Awards -- including Tom Cruise's "Last Samurai," Russell Crowe's "Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World," both of this year's planned "Matrix" sequels and, yes, Nicole Kidman in "Cold Mountain."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Daldry, an Academy Award nominee for best director for "The Hours," making a campaign stop at the Palm Springs International Film Festival. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); PRINT ADVERTISING (64%); CHRISTMAS (64%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



284 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
Terrorism Insurance, At a Price

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
LATE last year, Congress passed and President Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, a measure that enables private insurers and the federal government to share the risk of future losses from acts of terrorism.
 The act, which took effect on Nov. 26, 2002, and expires automatically in three years, rescinded any exclusions for terrorism coverage that insurers had written into commercial insurance policies -- including policies for co-op and condominium buildings -- and required the carriers to notify existing policyholders of the availability and cost of terrorism coverage. In return, the federal government will pay for most losses in a major terrorist attack. 
 While the law makes terrorism coverage available for any commercial property owner who wishes to purchase it, some industry experts say that the coverage could be exceedingly expensive for some owners of large New York properties. 
"Without this legislation, insurers were looking at an almost incalculable risk," said Robert Hartwig, chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, an industry organization based in Manhattan. "The law effectively puts a cap on what insurers can lose as a result of terrorism in a given year. And that provides insurers with at least some certainty in an area where there was absolutely no certainty before."
Dr. Hartwig said the legislation was intended to enable insurers to identify their maximum potential exposure for claims resulting from acts of terrorism. But it cannot identify the other factors that go into pricing insurance coverage: the likelihood and potential frequency of future terrorist acts.
"The cost of terrorism coverage will depend on many factors over time," he said. "Current market conditions will not change overnight, but this bill helps make coverage available." He added that "at least initially," coverage could be rather expensive.
Dr. Hartwig explained that after the Sept. 11 attacks -- which resulted in an estimated $40 billion in insurance claims -- many insurers started offering renewal policies that excluded coverage for terrorist attacks. With the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, however, the federal government has essentially agreed to act as a backstop and pay for most losses after a prescribed level of claims has been exceeded. In exchange, he said, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage to all their customers. Policyholders, in turn, can accept the coverage and pay the additional premium, decline the coverage or attempt to negotiate a different premium for coverage with the same or another carrier.
Dr. Hartwig said that under the new law, federal contributions for claims resulting from terrorism occur only after the costs of claims relating to terrorism exceed a certain threshold.
For example, he said, in 2003 an insurance company would not be eligible for federal assistance unless claims against the company exceeded 7 percent of the company's total business. So, if a particular insurance company is writing $1 billion in commercial coverage in a given year, claims relating to terrorism must exceed $70 million before the company would be entitled to federal money under the law. "For losses above a company's deductible, the federal government will cover 90 percent of the claim while the company contributes 10 percent," Dr. Hartwig said, adding that the deductible for the year 2004 is 10 percent, and for 2005 it is 15 percent. 
Under this law, Dr. Hartwig said, an "act of terrorism" must be certified as such by the secretary of the treasury, in concurrence with the secretary of state and the attorney general. To get this certification, an event must be "a violent act" or an act that is dangerous to human life, property or infrastructure. 
Moreover, the act must have been committed by an individual or individuals acting on behalf of any foreign person or foreign interest. (While damages caused by domestic terrorism are not covered by the law, Dr. Hartwig said, such damages would probably be covered under the carriers' standard coverage since such policies will no longer contain exclusions against terrorism.) Moreover, he said, an event cannot be certified as an act of terrorism unless the total damages exceed $5 million.
Andrew M. Schutzman, president of AMS Risk Management and Consulting, an insurance consulting firm in Rockville Centre on Long Island, said he is not so certain that acts of domestic terrorism will be covered for those who purchase terrorism coverage provided by the law. "I believe that carriers will issue an endorsement that provides terrorism coverage only as defined by the act," he said, "and the act only covers terrorism sponsored by foreign interests." While the law indeed makes terrorism coverage available to whoever is willing to pay for it, the law will probably result in increased insurance costs for some New York property owners, he said. 
Mr. Schutzman explained that after the Trade Center attacks, when terrorism coverage was withdrawn from many policies around the country, New York regulators insisted that insurers regulated by the state continue to provide the coverage. Those carriers that are not subject to state regulation, however, were able to withdraw terrorism coverage from their policies.
Under the new law, however, after a property owner's current policy expires, insurance carriers can charge basically an additional premium for terrorism coverage whether they are regulated by the state or not. And that, Mr. Schutzman said, could result in significant premium increases for some buildings, particularly those in New York City.
"I've seen total premium increases of as much as 20 percent," Mr. Schutzman said, adding that for a large co-op or condominium building with an annual premium of, say, $80,000, the premium increase for the terrorism coverage alone might be as much as $16,000.
Robert E. Mackoul, president of Mackoul & Associates, an insurance broker in Long Beach on Long Island, said he had seen even larger premium increases on some properties, "as much as 40 percent." He added that while it is possible to shop around for less expensive coverage, there is no guarantee that such coverage can be found.
"Everybody is shopping to begin with," Mr. Mackoul said. "Because the insurance market in New York is just awful, particularly for larger buildings."
He added that while an argument might be made that many buildings do not need terrorism coverage -- after all, the chances of a particular building at a particular location being the subject of a terrorist attack are small -- the likelihood of another terrorist attack at some point in time somewhere in New York is believed by many to be substantial. As a result, he said, boards of large co-ops and condominiums are likely to err on the side of caution and purchase the coverage despite the cost.
"It's almost like the board has a gun to its head," Mr. Mackoul said. "I think a lot of boards are going to opt to buy coverage just so the board members can sleep at night."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (93%); TERRORISM (92%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY INSURANCE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



285 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: WASHINGTON TALK; 
Tax Cuts and War Have Seldom Mixed

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
In his determination to cut taxes even while waging war in Iraq, President Bush is bucking history. 
 With the exception of the war against Mexico in the 1840's, taxes have been increased for every war the United States has fought, ever since most colonies increased property taxes to raise money to fight the British in the American Revolution. 
 Some of the most fundamental changes in American tax policy have occurred in wartime. 
The first discussion of an inheritance tax occurred in the War of 1812, and such a tax was enacted in the Civil War. The first national income tax was imposed, on the wealthiest 10 percent or so of Union households, during the Civil War. The income tax was expanded in World War II, so that for the first time most citizens became taxpayers, as they are today. 
In the current situation, the Bush administration argues that a war against Iraq is bound to be short and relatively inexpensive, so there is no risk in cutting taxes.
"The cost of the war will be small," Treasury Secretary John W. Snow told the House Ways and Means Committee this week. "We can afford the war, and we'll put it behind us."
W. Elliot Brownlee, a tax historian at the University of California at Santa Barbara, chuckled when he was told of Mr. Snow's remark. "That's what might have been said at the outset of almost any of the significant wars," Mr. Brownlee said. 
For instance, after the attack on Fort Sumter started the Civil War, most experts predicted that the war would last a few months at the most, and President Abraham Lincoln's Treasury secretary, Salmon P. Chase, estimated that the war would cost $320 million. 
In fact, the war lasted four bloody years and cost $5 billion, more than 15 times Chase's forecast.
In the early days of the military buildup in Vietnam, Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson also thought they could safely cut taxes and meet military expenditures. Business taxes were cut in 1962, and income taxes were cut across the board in 1964. 
But as the United States' commitment in Vietnam grew, budgetary strains mounted. 
In in his State of the Union Message in 1967, Johnson asked Congress for a tax increase to keep the budget deficit "within prudent limits and to give our country and our fighting men the help they need in this hour of trial."
Congress balked for a time. But in 1968, a 10 percent surcharge was imposed on individual and corporate income taxes. Under President Richard M. Nixon, taxes were raised again in 1969.
The history of wartime taxes in this country can be found in Professor Brownlee's book "Federal Taxation in America: A Short History" (Woodrow Wilson Center Press and Cambridge University Press, 1996); in "The Great Tax Wars," by Steven R. Weisman (Simon & Schuster, 2002); and in a 2002 Library of Congress report, "Financing Issues and Economic Effects of Past American Wars," by Marc Labonte.
To help pay for the War of 1812, Congress enacted excise taxes, sales taxes and a requirement that states raise property taxes and forward the money to the federal government.
In the Civil War, in addition to imposing the first inheritance and income taxes, the government raised business taxes and taxes on spirits and tobacco and imposed higher tariffs. The principles of tax withholding, mortgage deductions and the rich paying at a higher rate than the poor were more or less established then. 
And some of the tax complications that exist today, like the distinctions between gross and net income, between earned and unearned income and between regular income and capital gains, first appeared during the Civil War. 
To help pay for the Spanish-American War, excise and inheritance taxes and tariffs were raised.
In World War I, the personal income tax and taxes on corporate profits were increased significantly. The first permanent estate tax was enacted, and taxes were imposed on the production of munitions.
Federal spending during World War II rose to 43.6 percent of the national economy in 1943, from 9.8 percent in 1940. In addition to expanding the income tax so that it became a broad tax on most households, the government increased the corporate tax and excise taxes, created a 5 percent "victory tax" to be repaid in a tax credit after the war, and raised to 90 percent what was called an excess profits tax on companies. 
In the Korean War, income tax rates were raised to the levels of World War II, and a new excess profits tax was enacted.
The 10 percent surcharge on personal and corporate income taxes imposed during the Vietnam war resulted in a budget surplus in 1969, the last until 1998.
Taxes were not increased during the Persian Gulf war in 1991, but that was the year the tax increases of 1990 first took effect.
In many cases, most notably the Civil War and World War I, Mr. Brownlee said, a motive for raising taxes in wartime was to "respond to some sense of shared sacrifice" and head off criticism that poor soldiers were fighting a rich man's war.
In that respect, too, President Bush is breaking from the past, holding that the best way to improve the economy for everyone is to cut the taxes of the most affluent.
"In this time of high-tech warfare and a volunteer Army," Mr. Brownlee said, "there is no longer the concern with equalizing sacrifice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We can afford the war," Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TAX LAW (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); TERRORISM (64%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; HISTORY 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) SNOW, JOHN W (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (67%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



286 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ALLIES; 
Jordan's King, in Gamble, Lends Hand to the U.S.

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, March 8 

 BODY:
At his palace in the hills above this capital, King Abdullah II has been studying military maps of Baghdad.
 As a former Jordanian Special Forces commander, the 41-year-old king has been anticipating an American attack on Iraq by calculating the hard choices facing Saddam Hussein. In addition to confronting besieging American troops, Jordanian officers believe, Mr. Hussein may face domestic uprisings -- most likely among the two million Shiite Muslims in Saddam City, a Baghdad district that is a suppressed cauldron of opposition to Mr. Hussein and his Sunni Muslim elite. 
 Among Arab leaders, few other than Saddam Hussein have a deeper interest in the outcome of an Iraq war than Abdullah does. Sixty percent of Jordan's five million people are Palestinians, many of them refugees bitter toward the United States for its support of Israel.Jordan also depends on a thriving trade with Iraq, its eastern neighbor, including cheap oil at savings of nearly $500 million a year, about equal to American aid to Jordan. 
About 400,000 Iraqis are in Jordan. Most are fugitives from Mr. Hussein's terror, but some are secret police agents who, Jordanian intelligence officials say, may foment trouble. Jordan's eastern border with Iraq is open desert, allowing Iraqis virtually unhindered passage. A tide of Iraqi refugees flooding into Jordan to escape a war would be another major headache. 
Yet Abdullah, the affable product of American schooling, is engaged in a big gamble.
In the face of overwhelming opposition to a war among his own people, the king has quietly assented to stationing American and British Special Forces in Jordan's eastern desert. Some units, Western diplomats say, are already operating deep inside Iraq, scouting targets. In addition, Abdullah has welcomed hundreds of American troops staffing three Patriot missile batteries that will seek to shoot down any Iraqi missiles launched against Jordan -- or, more likely, Israel.
He has also agreed to allow coalition aircraft to fly over Jordan to support the war effort, although Jordanian officials say no combat missions will be allowed. "There will be no offensive missions flown from the west," one official said.
Although the cooperation has been masked, it is an open secret in the streets of Amman and in the teeming Palestinian refugee camps where anti-American feelings run high. Travelers on the 250-mile route from Amman to Ruweished, near Iraq, have reported sightings of uniformed American soldiers traveling the highway in unmarked vehicles, and others have reported heavy American equipment being unloaded at Aqaba, Jordan's Red Sea port. 
Groups of trim, hardened, close-cropped Americans in civilian clothing checking into Amman's hotels on furlough are a common sight. Some are on military duty, others veterans working for private companies under Pentagon contracts. Asked what they have been doing in the desert, they offer wry smiles. "Let's just say that Saddam Hussein is in for a few surprises," said one. 
Jordanian officials say that Abdullah, told by President Bush at the White House last summer that he would not be dissuaded from military action to topple Mr. Hussein, chose to limit Jordan's losses. "The king asked the president, 'Can I change your mind?' and the president told him bluntly, 'No,' " one Jordanian official said. "From that point on, we began preparing for war, and trying to minimize the political and economic costs."
In a poll conducted in January by the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan, 98 percent of the respondents foresaw "adverse repercussions" for Jordan from a war; 88 percent opposed any support for American forces. Jordanian commanders are preparing for unrest if a war comes, with orders to crack down hard if protests turn violent.
For months, the American-educated technocrats Abdullah favors for his cabinet have been seeking to cushion Jordan against the economic fallout from a war. Aided by beneficial trade deals with Israel and the United States, currency reserves have risen to more than $3 billion, a record, and oil reserves have been built up. Saudi Arabia, prodded by the United States, has agreed to make up for any cutoff of Iraqi oil if war comes.
Jordanian officials say that Abdullah has shown a pragmatism that many contrast with the attitude of his father, King Hussein, who leaned toward Saddam Hussein before the gulf war in 1991. American aid to Jordanwas suspended, and King Hussein was personally shunned, at least until he supported new Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts after the Oslo accords of 1992.
Jordanian officials say that Abdullah thinks his stand will be vindicated if a war goes according to American estimates. After talks with Gen. Tommy R. Franks, America's war commander, the officials believe Iraqi forces could be defeated in as little as a week, with American and British troops greeted by Iraqis as liberators. "Who then, in the Arab world, will be more Catholic than the pope -- or more royalist than the king?" one official said.
For Abdullah, who took the throne four years ago after King Hussein's death from cancer, the personal ironies run deep. Two weeks before his death, King Hussein abruptly switched the succession from his brother, Prince Hassan, to Abdullah, his oldest son. To Jordanians, King Hussein is an icon, a survivor of repeated turmoil during his 46-year reign, who guided Jordan from postcolonial fragility to a model in the Arab world for tolerance and adaptability.
But his father's handling of the 1990 crisis over Iraq has been a caution to King Abdullah. After Iraq invaded Kuwait, King Hussein described it as Iraq's reaction to Kuwaiti provocations over disputed oil fields. He urged the United States to leave the issue to Arab mediation, led by himself. He described Mr. Hussein as "a friend and a new phenomenon in Arab politics."
As war loomed in 1990, King Hussein eased the strain by roaring through his palace grounds on a BMW motorcycle, and he complained of sleepless nights. Abdullah, though, strikes visitors as calm. He tells guests with a smile that he reserves his motorcycle outings to breaks at a royal villa at Aqaba. His 32-year-old wife, Queen Rania, daughter of a Palestinian doctor driven from Kuwait after the Iraqi occupation, places her arm on the king's and says: "My husband is a practical man. He gives us confidence."
Nor is there much inclination, these days, to draw veils over the realities of Saddam Hussein's rule. Palace officials tell grim stories, dating from King Hussein's time, of fishing outings with Saddam Hussein and his sons, Uday and Qusay, that featured hand grenades instead of rods. "They're thugs," a palace aide said.
Abdullah's approach has won support from many in Jordan's ruling elite, who say he has understood an opinion shift here. In 1990, Saddam Hussein was widely popular for his hostility to Israel and the United States. But while the Israeli-Palestinian confrontation stirs stronger feelings than ever, Mr. Hussein's appeal has dwindled, partly because satellite television now brings many Jordanians tales of his violent repression in Iraq.
In Palestinian refugee camps like Baqaa, outside Amman, Mr. Hussein's name still brings murmurs of approval, but many Jordanians grimace at his name.
Consequently, Abdullah's allies contend, a quick war to overthrow Mr. Hussein is unlikely to cause a major popular upheaval.
"If it's quick and surgical -- if Saddam is removed in seven days --nothing will happen; we'll be able to manage," said George Hawatmeh, editor of Jordan's principal Arab-language newspaper, Al Rai, published by a government-owned trust. "But if it drags on for two months, four months, or, God help us, six months, there'll be a snowball effect, in Jordan and across the Arab world. How will anybody contain that?"
Still, many Jordanians, including some with links to the palace, say Abdullah may be veering too close to the United States for his own good. Some critics say privately that the king, as the son of an English colonel's daughter, Princess Muna, has the practicality of his English blood, but the liabilities, too, of not being fully attuned to Arab sensibilities.
The critics cite Abdullah's years at boarding schools in Massachusetts, and his early military training in Britain. In 1983, he spent six months training with the American military at Fort Knox. These experiences left him with an easy familiarity with American popular culture, critics say, but a shallower sense of Arab culture. 
In the common nostalgia, King Hussein never lost touch with popular opinion, and he balanced Arab political imperatives with pro-Western instincts. Abdullah, an impatient modernizer, the critics say, alienated important constituencies even before war loomed, including moderate Islamists and some tribal leaders.
Abdullah came to the throne with calls for a move toward fuller democracy, but the rising conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, and America's response to the Sept. 11 attacks, roused popular feelings that prompted him to reverse course. Parliament was suspended and elections postponed. Permits were required for protests, and few were granted. Tighter press controls were imposed. More than 120 new laws have been passed by royal decree.
Unions and professional associations, a powerful pro-Islamist force under King Hussein, were barred from political activities. This week they struck back in a joint statement warning Jordanians that any cooperation with American troops here would betray Islam. 
Last Oct. 28, an American diplomat, Laurence Foley, was shot to death outside his Amman home by men American and Jordanian investigators have linked to Al Qaeda. A few days later, the government cracked down on Islamic militants in Maan, a tribal stronghold 140 miles south of Amman, bringing violence that killed six people.
Maan still feels like an armed camp. Armored military vehicles idle at street corners and angry residents offer tours of the pock-holed masonry. Saddam Hussein, in these streets, is a hero. 
Suleiman Muhammad al-Khatab, a 54-year-old Bedouin leader, said anything that undermined Mr. Hussein would backfire. "If King Abdullah supports a war, we will oppose him to the utmost," he said. 
"To us, Saddam Hussein is a real man, a real leader and symbol of the Arab nation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Palestinians at a rally in Baqaa, Jordan, last month protested United States plans to attack Iraq. They also called for Israel to be attacked. (Getty Images); What happens in Iraq is a concern to King Abdullah II of Jordan, above, because of oil but also because of the millions of Palestinians in Jordan. The king's portrait, below, has pride of place in a barbershop in Amman. (Getty Images); (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); TERRORISM (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DESERTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) ABDULLAH II, KING OF JORDAN; HUSSEIN I, KING OF JORDAN (1935-99); BURNS, JOHN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) JORDAN (99%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; JORDAN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



287 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Wants Layoff Lists From Agencies by Wednesday 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has set a deadline of Wednesday for all city agencies to submit a list of employees who would be laid off as part of a cost-savings plan still under review.
 Mark Page, the city budget director, announced the deadline and outlined the request for the list in a memo sent out Friday. 
 Attached to the memo was a form asking department heads for the job titles of employees who would be considered for the layoffs. Mr. Bloomberg has already indicated that he intends to lay off 12,000 city workers unless the city's unions help to secure $600 million in concessions. 
The memo read in part, "On Feb. 25, 2003, I sent to you a memo with instructions for submitting your proposal for the contingency reduction." It continued, "In order to maximize the savings from the layoffs that are included in that program, I've asked that the Department of Citywide Services begin the work necessary to implement the layoffs as soon as possible."
An article in Newsday yesterday reported that the memo had gone out. A spokesman for the mayor declined to comment on the memo, but several key union officials called it the latest misstep by an administration out of touch with city workers. 
"I wish they would be a little more sensitive to the workers," said Arthur Cheliotes, president of Local 1180 of the Communications Workers of America, which represents 8,000 supervisors and midlevel managers in various departments.
Mr. Cheliotes said he and several other leaders of the city's municipal unions met with Mr. Page on Friday to discuss suggestions about ways to cut health care costs. While the memo was not discussed, Mr. Cheliotes said, it was an unfortunate reminder of the city's mindset. 
"What I don't understand is, why isn't the mayor yelling and screaming at how the governor and the federal government have betrayed New York City?" Mr. Cheliotes said. "When San Francisco had its earthquake, within six months the government passed a sales tax to help rebuild the city. And yet here we are going into the second year after the attack, and he's looking to people who earn $40,000 a year to bail the city out." 
Lillian Roberts, the executive director of District Council 37, the municipal union representing 125,000 workers, urged that Mr. Page and Mr. Bloomberg explore other means of savings.
"I would rather see them discuss the problem of outside contracting, if they're that dog-gone desperate," she said. "The city is spending billions of dollars on outside contractors, who are coming in from Delaware and Nevada and replacing our workers without paying taxes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ORGANIZED LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



288 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISARMAMENT; 
BAGHDAD RESUMES DISMANTLING ARMS, BUT LISTS DEMANDS

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR with PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 8 

 BODY:
Iraq today resumed destroying its short-range Al Samoud 2 missiles and, apparently in a further attempt to exploit the deep divisions among the world's powers over war, issued a defiant list of demands to the United Nations.
 Glossing over the negative aspects of the latest report by the weapons inspectors, a government statement issued from a meeting presided over by Saddam Hussein and editorials in the government-controlled press all reached the same conclusion: that Iraq had been declared sufficiently free of weapons of mass destruction to warrant the cancellation of sanctions imposed after the 1991 Persian Gulf war. 
 The sense here was that the strong resistance by France, Russia and Germany to the use of force against Iraq revealed a growing consensus that put the United States and Britain on the defensive. 
At the United Nations, diplomats said Britain was more interested than the United States in finding a compromise that might attract more international support for the new resolution the two nations put forward on Friday. It would give Iraq until March 17 to disarm completely as demanded in Resolution 1441, passed unanimously in November. 
"There is some room for maneuver," a British diplomat said. "But the Americans have far less patience than we do."
In Washington, Bush administration officials gave no indication that they would entertain any compromise that would extend the deadline for Iraq's disarmament beyond March 17.
Both at the United Nations and in Washington, diplomats and Bush administration officials expressed growing concern that if the United States called for a vote on the resolution and lost it, the coalition led by the United States and Britain would go to war in apparent defiance of the Security Council.
Officials in Washington reported a debate over whether to let the United Nations vote proceed if it appears the United States would lose. They said there was no question that the vote should go ahead if the United States believed that it could win at least nine votes, even if France or Russia vetoed the resolution.
"There's no shame in winning the vote and going ahead after a veto," said the official, who insisted on anonymity. "We could easily argue the French are frustrating the will of the Council. The question is whether it is advisable to go ahead even if you are going to lose the vote."
President Bush, in his weekly radio address today, took a far harder line than the United Nations weapons inspectors, declaring that Iraq "is still violating the demands of the United Nations by refusing to disarm."
Mr. Bush dismissed the destruction of the Samoud missiles as "a public show of producing and destroying a few prohibited missiles," and argued anew that American intelligence -- which the administration has declined to release -- "shows that even as he is destroying these few missiles, he has ordered the continued production of the very same type of missiles." 
In Iraq, the government destroyed 6 of the short-range Samoud missiles after a one-day hiatus, bringing the total destroyed under United Nations supervision in the last week to 40 -- approximately one-third of Iraq's known stock of the missiles.
In Tampa, Fla., the military's Central Command said its aircraft struck Iraqi positions early this morning in the desert about 230 miles west of Baghdad, a remote area near the Jordanian border. The strike, like an attack in the same region the day before, was aimed at a mobile radar system used to track aircraft and to aim antiaircraft missiles.
American commanders have long expressed concerns that this largely vacant area might be used by Iraq to fire medium-range surface-to-surface missiles at Israel if war broke out, as the Iraqi military did in the gulf war 12 years ago.
The Iraqi demands to the United Nations included a call to strip Israel of its weapons of mass destruction and force it to abide by Security Council resolutions requiring its withdrawal from occupied Palestinian territory. The government statement also said the United States and Britain should officially be branded "liars." 
The statement by the Iraqi cabinet said the United States was still trying to use the cover of the Security Council reports to attack Iraq despite the cooperation detailed by the weapons inspectors. 
Hans Blix, one of the chief United Nations inspectors, delivered a long report on Friday that included some 30 outstanding questions, mostly about the amount of chemical and biological weapons Iraq has produced and what happened to it all. 
The Iraqi statement, carried by the official Iraqi news agency, said the Bush administration "wants to cover what it wants to do with allegations that Iraq did not implement Security Council resolutions." 
"But testimonies on the truthfulness of what we say and the accuracy in implementation come from the concerned specialists led by the committee of Blix and ElBaradei," it said. Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, on Friday said his inspectors had so far detected no proof that Iraq was producing nuclear weapons. 
Iraq maintains that it dismantled its weapons of mass destruction itself, but in the process also destroyed all the documentation. Although it says that it destroyed the weapons in 1991, it did not even admit to having such arms programs until 1995. 
The destruction of the weapons was apparently undertaken in order tocover all traces of such programs. 
In addition to the six Samoud missiles destroyed today, the United Nations said three warheads had been destroyed. Mr. Blix had ordered the destruction of all the roughly 100 completed missiles and 20 in various stages of construction because they exceeded the 93-mile limit imposed on Iraq's defensive weapons after the 1991 war. 
An editorial in the leading newspaper Babel, owned by Mr. Hussein's son Oday, lashed out at the United States and Britain for pushing for war while other nations were taking a more restrained approach. It said the two countries "insist on swimming against the current." 
"It seems members realize that the policies of Britain and the United States are pushing not only the Security Council, but the world toward the abyss," the paper said.
As has been the case when each such report to the United Nations has been issued in recent weeks, Iraqis in general have been tense about the possible outcome and then somewhat relieved when the possible deadline for war was shoved back by a few more days.
Still, with each passing day, preparations for war are visible in the capital, with slightly more armed Interior Ministry troops on the streets and workers filling sandbags around government installations. 
"We are all afraid because we expect we could be attacked at any minute," said Raghad Majid, a 23-year-old art student. "They want to attack no matter what."
The tensions were evident on the Kuwait side of Iraq's border as well. United Nations military observers who have monitored the demilitarized zone there for the last 12 years told Reuters that they were withdrawing civilian staff members to Kuwait City for their safety.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHIPBOARD R & R -- Airman Mike Nash of Vidor, Tex., tried his swing yesterday aboard the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk in the Persian Gulf. After six weeks at sea, crew members were allowed a day off and two beers each. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); American peace activists in Baghdad yesterday at the Canal Hotel, local headquarters for the United Nations, where an Iraqi soldier stood guard. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); VETO (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PERSIAN GULF WAR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; TYLER, PATRICK E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); GULF STATES (89%); GERMANY (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



289 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in Rebuff to Partners, Freezes Mideast Peace Plan 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
In a sharp rebuff to European allies, Russia and the United Nations, the Bush administration has decided not to put forth a plan for a peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians until after the crisis in Iraq is resolved, administration officials say.
 Negotiations aimed at drafting a three-year-long, step by step "road map" leading to the creation of a Palestinian state have been under way between the United States and these partners for nearly a year, but the administration has come under increasing pressure of late to adopt and publish the plan formally as the likelihood of a war with Iraq has risen. 
 As recently as December, President Bush met with European leaders and the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, all of whom wanted the peace plan published immediately to ease the anger of Arabs in the Middle East who charge that the United States has been single-mindedly focused on Iraq.
Those who met with Mr. Bush said they had won assurances that the plan would be published as soon as the Israeli elections were completed in late January. 
Now, officials say, Mr. Bush has changed his mind and regards the December pledge as unrealistic. The administration's decision not to proceed with publishing the plan -- a seven-page document that calls for reciprocal steps that would also include replacing Yasir Arafat as the Palestinian leader and an end to attacks on Israel -- has infuriated the Europeans and poisoned the atmosphere even as the administration has struggled to secure the allies' support for its possible war against Iraq.
Among the angriest is Britain's prime minister, Tony Blair, whose aides say has pleaded with Mr. Bush to become more involved in the Israeli-Palestinian dispute.
But administration officials say that it makes no sense to publish the peace plan and push the effort now with a possible war on the horizon, with anxiety in Israel deepening over being attacked during a war with Iraq and a multibillion-dollar Israeli request for American military aid on the table.
American officials also say that publishing a document callingfor the removal of Mr. Arafat may upset recent progress among the Palestinians in choosing a prime minister as a step toward having him cede power. They say that more work also needs to be done to accommodate Israeli objections to the plan.
"In the real world, the ability to achieve a peace settlement does not turn on whether you publish a road map this week or next," an administration official said. "It turns on publishing it when it is most likely to elicit positive responses and be helpful."
Without saying so directly, administration officials suggest that a successful outcome in Iraq, particularly a swift military victory, would give the United States enormous leverage to bring about a settlement.
But the Europeans see it differently, something that was obvious at the United Nations Security Council on Friday, when the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, and many other speakers cited the absence of peace efforts in the Israeli-Palestinian crisis as a far greater threat to stability than Saddam Hussein's illegal weapons in Iraq.
Privately, many charge that Mr. Bush, on the eve of a possible war, does not want to do anything to anger Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel. Among other reasons, they say that the United States does not want Mr. Sharon to intervene in the war even if Israel is attacked by Iraqi missiles, lest this direct Arab countries' anger at Israel.
"Let's face it, the road map is dead," a senior European diplomat said. "This administration will never do anything opposed by Sharon."
Another European diplomat involved in drafting the plan said that without a published plan, a war would cause the Arab world to erupt with rage directed at the United States. "There was a lot of dismay when the road map was put off before, and the dismay right now is even worse," the diplomat said. 
Still another said that publishing the plan was the only way to keep hope alive among Muslims in the Middle East. "Without hope, the power of extremists will only grow," he said.
Administration officials say that such comments are unfair and that after an Iraq war the administration would be prepared to press Israel to make the concessions for peace that Mr. Sharon has said in principle Israel would have to accept.
But the decision to put off consideration of the plan is widely seen as a rebuff to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who has backed the Europeans and urged Mr. Bush to intensify the American commitment to Middle East peace efforts, to placate both Arab countries and European allies being courted over Iraq.
Mr. Powell is described by aides as believing with the Europeans that the stalemate over the peace plan has hampered the American ability to get approval of a resolution on Iraq at the Security Council.
State Department officials say that management of Middle East policies has increasingly been taken over by the White House, where Elliott Abrams, a passionate advocate of Israel, has recently taken over the Middle East portfolio on the National Security Council staff. Three aides under him who were identified with the pro-peace-plan position have recently resigned leading to speculation in the administration that their departure had cemented Mr. Bush's basic pro-Israel position.
The "road map" plan, in its current form, is a timetable for reciprocal steps by Israel and the Palestinians, phased in over three years. Mr. Sharon has said many times that he accepts the concept of the plan but he argues that it contains ambiguities dangerous to Israel's interests.
To reassure the impatient Arab countries that the peace plan was endorsed by Mr. Bush, the White House arranged for the president to reiterate his commitment to it in a speech on Iraq 10 days ago. The statement of commitment was also meant to assuage the fear of Mr. Blair and others that the administration's commitment to the peace plan was wavering.
Israel's main objections have won sympathy at the White House. They focus on the fear that there is not enough of a guarantee that Mr. Arafat will be replaced by leadership that controls both the Palestinian finances and security apparatus. Israel also fears that the plan calls for it to take irreversible steps -- like pulling out troops and freezing settlements in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip -- in return for amorphous commitments by the Palestinians to reduce violence.
Mr. Sharon's aides make no secret of their disdain for the whole idea of involving the Europeans, Russians and United Nations in monitoring progress on the Palestinian side. They say that they do not want the French to play such a role, since the French are maintaining that Mr. Hussein is disarming.
American officials say that the plan fully reflects Mr. Bush's vision for a Palestinian state as laid out in his speech on the matter last summer and that many strides have been made in recent weeks to select new leadership to replace Mr. Arafat.
Administration officials reject the charge that Mr. Bush has never criticized Israel. They point out that it is long-standing American policy for Israel to show restraint in suppressing Palestinian violence and to ease on curbs on the movements and economic activities of the Palestinians.
They note that Mr. Bush has not hesitated to criticize Mr. Sharon when Israel seemed to be using heavy force to put down Palestinian uprisings -- though no such criticism was made in the last week over Israeli actions in Gaza -- on the grounds that these actions are simply drawing the Palestinian people to rally all the more around Mr. Arafat.
When Mr. Bush spoke the other day of an end to Palestinian violence as a necessity before the phased end to settlement activity by Israel, some in Israel saw this as a more pro-Israel position than in the past. But administration aides point out that Mr. Bush said the same thing in his major speech on the subject last June 24.
Some outside experts who have criticized what they see as the administration's lack of involvement in the Middle East negotiations say they can understand why it makes sense to put off pushing the plan until after Iraq is settled.
Dennis B. Ross, the Middle East peace negotiator in the Clinton administration, said that the recent developments among the Palestinians in selecting new leadership were potentially significant, and that putting the road map idea into a deep freeze until after an Iraq war was a defensible idea. The problem, he said, is that the United States has not leveled with its allies on its intentions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ariel Sharon of Israel has resisted international monitoring. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); TERRORISM (64%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); TONY BLAIR (52%) ;BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); WEISMAN, STEVEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) ISRAEL; IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



290 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Resolved: War Is Hell. So Is the Fine Print; 
For the City Council, Wording of a Statement on Iraq Turns Into a Battle

BYLINE:  By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN

 BODY:
Last year, the New York City Council introduced 648 ceremonial resolutions, rallying to support or oppose everything from World Breast-Feeding Week and Older Americans Month, to a plea for the United States Navy to vacate Vieques, P.R. Legislators everywhere love these pain-free expressions of support for popular causes, and well over half of the Council's 2002 initiatives in New York passed with little protest.
 But an effort by the Council, one of the most liberal in the country, to align itself with its equally liberal constituents to condemn a war against Iraq has become quite an adventure, with members bitterly divided over whether a city altered by terrorists should weigh in at all. 
 For weeks, the debate has dragged on with back-room battles over semantics and competing views of constituents. It lingered even as New York played host to one of the nation's largest and loudest antiwar protests. At least 125 other cities, from Detroit to Denver, have approved some fashion of an antiwar resolution, though a handful of small towns like Ely, Minn., have recently rescinded their opposition. 
The debate in New York is like all things political, but some see it as a larger symbol of a city in transition, still on edge over an event that in many ways has changed both its physical and political views. 
"New York City Councils have always conducted foreign policy," said Douglas Muzzio, public policy professor at Baruch College. "But the war is taking on added saliency because the Council recognizes it's a high-stakes issue for their constituents. Everyone is nervous and anxious, and there are differing opinions on how council members' actions and statements will affect their ability to get re-elected."
New York City's antiwar resolution, introduced in October, appears to be moving toward approval. A vote is set for Wednesday with 29 Council members, including Speaker Gifford Miller, lined up behind a revised version that was changed to appease some who saw the first draft as more critical of President Bush than of Saddam Hussein. 
But hardly anyone is happy. 
"It's frustrating and embarrassing that New York is going to be one of the 100-some-odd cities that finally comes to grips with an antiwar resolution," said Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn, one of 17 sponsors of the earlier resolution. "This is a Council that's been out front on a lot of things, and we should have taken care of business a long time ago, so that New York was one of the first cities to oppose the war. Saddam Hussein has not been linked to the World Trade Center tragedy and he has not adequately been linked to Al Qaeda. What's so wrong with this Council saying that the president has not proved his case?"
Opponents continue to argue that any antiwar resolution represents the wrong message for this city. 
"New York City was attacked by terrorists a few blocks from where this resolution is being debated," said Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr. of Queens. "I can't forget that." 
The version of the resolution expected to pass on Wednesday leaves open the option of war as a last resort, while the much more strongly worded original draft opposed allowing President Bush to unilaterally declare war against Iraq without the authority of the United Nations. 
"The manner in which the United States Government is responding to the crisis involving Iraq has caused great concern among many New Yorkers," part of the revised Resolution No. 549-A says.
It also stresses the need to deal with threats to world peace "in accordance with international law and, whenever possible, on a multilateral basis." It goes on to mention the financial impact, quoting National Bureau of Economic Research estimates that such a war would cost $150 billion to $750 billion.
In the original wording, since deleted, Resolution No. 549 stated that "each misstep in our judgment has the potential of being magnified exponentially, and could bring with it the most devastating consequences imaginable, not just in the Middle East but to our own shores as well."
William Perkins, the Manhattan councilman who wrote and introduced the first resolution, said that out of the Council's linguistic wrangling -- however contentious -- a larger lesson about New York has emerged. "People criticize New York for being overly liberal," he said. "If nothing else I think what has happened on this issue reveals this is not a knee-jerk liberal town. The opinions run deep and they reflect mainstream America more than we might like to admit." 
Observers say the fact that the Council has struggled to reach consensus on a resolution, which is not very likely to influence the larger debate over whether the country goes to war, mirrors the problems many people are having reconciling themselves to a war that seems more imminent each day. 
"The Council is as conflicted as the rest of the city, the rest of the country," said Kenneth K. Fisher, a former councilman from Brooklyn. "It's an institution that places a high value on consensus, but consensus on an issue of life and death is understandably difficult and takes time."
The first indication of conflict within the Council came Feb. 26, when a regularly scheduled vote on the resolution was postponed at the last minute. Reporters were told the vote was delayed to help build a wider margin of support on the floor. Yet people close to the situation said the resolution sat deadlocked in a 3-to-3 vote by the Cultural Affairs Committee, where it had originated. 
The committee's seventh member, Philip Reed, a resolution supporter, was out of town, leaving little chance for the vote to reach a majority.
More problematic, though, were comments by Councilman Robert Jackson, who six days before the Feb. 26 vote inflamed an already tense standoff with his interpretation of why the resolution had stalled 
"New York City is the home away from home for most Jews," Mr. Jackson, who represents parts of Harlem, Inwood and Washington Heights, said during an interview on a WNYC radio show. "And this is seen by many members of the Jewish community as a resolution that will go against Bush and, in the long run, will not be in the best interests of the State of Israel." 
The resolution quickly took a back seat to controversy.
"What he said was unfortunately seen as a criticism rather than an observation that probably has some basis in fact," Professor Muzzio said. "People in general, Jewish and otherwise, have serious personal concerns over this war. But any discussion of Israel in this issue is terrain people fear to tread." 
Hoping to refocus the debate on the resolution, another faction of council members stepped in with a plan to rewrite the measure, sharpening the attack against Saddam Hussein while toning down the language that Mr. Perkins had originally written. That language pointed the finger mostly at President Bush, demanding that he explain himself and his call to war. 
One person pressing for changes to the resolution was Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer. She became a supporter after rewriting it and being inundated with hundreds of phone calls, e-mail messages and letters from people in her district, the Upper West Side of Manhattan. 
"There aren't many ideological splits like this in the Council," she said. "But there are such strong feelings for Bush's plan and against Bush's plan, that if this resolution was ever going to pass, it had to be more inclusive of some of those differences." 
Regardless of the outcome, Mr. Perkins said he had achieved his goal. After all is said and done, New York has an antiwar resolution.
Still, publicly and privately, many question whether the Council's deep differences have truly been resolved, or whether members are merely trying to move past a rare divisive moment in which it resembled, more than ever before, the city it represents. 
Councilwoman Melinda R. Katz of Queens has still not been swayed and said she intended to vote down the resolution. 
"It's the wrong direction to try to tie the hands of United States," she said. "And I have grave doubts about leaving our destiny in the hands of the United Nations Security Council, where France and some of the other countries have made it clear that they don't want any type of pre-emptive strike or sole behavior that helps us to protect ourselves." 
Some said it was simply time to get back to work. 
"Yes, we should be one of the cities opposing the war, no question," said John C. Liu, a councilman from Queens and an initial endorser of the resolution. "But few cities are facing as dire a fiscal crisis as we are."
The reason, he said, is that unlike New York, those cities were not attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. "We were," Mr. Liu said, adding, "The budget ought to be our only real priority."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Council's antiwar resolution, on the desk of Speaker Gifford Miller, could be approved on Wednesday. It was introduced in October. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NAVIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



291 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
Fervor for an Arena In Newark Is Fading

BYLINE:  By Ronald Smothers; Ronald Smothers reports from Newark for The New York Times.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
When the head of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority suggested last month -- slyly and with a wink -- that plans to develop a $1.2 billion family entertainment complex in the Meadowlands, site of the Continental Airlines Arena, might prompt the Devils and Nets to remain at the exciting new venue, he may have reconnected two issues that had once proved to be a politically undesirable and volatile combination.
 The comments were made by George Zoffinger, chief executive of the authority and a longtime Middlesex County political ally of Governor McGreevey. At the time, Mr. Zoffinger was unveiling the agency's choice of Xanadu, the elaborate product of the Mills Corp. and the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, as the preferred plan for developing the 106-acre site that was to be vacated by the two sports teams when they eventually decamped to a new $355 million arena in Newark . 
 He noted that one virtue of Xanadu over the two other finalists was that it allowed for the arena to remain standing while the two teams played out their lease, which ends in 2008. And who knows, observed Mr. Zoffinger; the teams might be so taken with the location's transformation that they would consider staying.
It was a curious, even mischievous, recoupling of two issues that the McGreevey administration had labored mightily to decouple last year. At the time, the idea of a Newark arena not only raised the specter of budget problems in a time of decreasing revenue, it also pitted the suburban interest of Bergen County and its emerging Democratic strength against the solid Democratic base among minority voters in the state's largest city.
The problem for the administration seemed to be how to keep very public promises made to Newark and Mayor Sharpe James while at the same time nurturing the emergent Bergen Democrats who, like the Republicans there, were not happy about the state playing a role in their loss of the two professional sports teams. At the time, the Nets and the Devils were Bergen's bird in the hand, and the arena was the elusive bird in the bush.
Miraculously, the McGreevey administration helped broker a deal that provided Newark with a cash windfall from renewing its lease with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for Newark Liberty International Airport. The infusion provided the bulk of the arena financing, and did it in a way that avoided the need for legislative approval and any sloppy political loose ends. With the two sports teams seemingly headed down the road to Newark for a 2005 opening of their new arena, Bergen could lick its wounds, give up the dream of keeping them and concentrate on a future at the Meadowlands without them.
But since then, much has happened. Talks aimed at finalizing a deal to build the arena in Newark have slowed. Of course, the reasons differ, depending on whom in the closely guarded negotiations one talks to. But the result is clear.
And whatever forward motion remained in those discussions was brought to a halt last month when Governor McGreevey picked his chief negotiator on the Newark arena deal, Anthony Coscia, to fill a vacancy that had arisen on the Port Authority board. Mr. Coscia was chosen to replace Charles Kushner, a wealthy contributor to Mr. McGreevey who stepped down amid questions about his business dealings and political contributions. Mr. Kushner was the governor's choice to become chairman of the powerful bi-state agency, and now Mr. Coscia is destined to move into that job.
Suddenly, the momentum that had almost magically sustained the proposed Newark arena -- even when there were significant political and fiscal barriers -- diminished. The hope of a 2005 opening of the arena has long been abandoned, and remaining at the Meadowlands until at least 2008 seems inevitable.
The windy talk of renaissance and revitalization that buoyed the Newark arena in its darkest days has disappeared as well. The YankeeNets, owners of the teams, and Raymond Chambers, a philanthropist and partner in the ownership group whose very public dream was to bring the teams and their economic boost to the city, are silent. Once bitten has translated to twice cautious for the group, which once touted its plan with a $1 million lobbying and planning effort.
Some suggest that the YankeeNets themselves have grown weary of chasing Mr. Chambers's dream and are considering the possibility that a redeveloped Meadowlands might be a good place to be.
Others suggest that the McGreevey administration itself is split. One faction believes the governor would do himself and the recently elected Democratic leadership in Bergen County a lot of good politically if the teams just stayed put. This group, according to officials familiar with the debate, is a virtual echo of the former Republican opponents of a Newark arena, who argued that fans would not come to the city to see the games and that significant taxpayer money would inevitably be needed to sustain such a project.
Still others in the McGreevey administration contend that abandoning a Newark arena is politically risky and could alienate usually reliable Democratic voters in 2005 should the governor seek re-election. Furthermore, situating the arena in Newark -- with its convergence of public transportation and Interstate highways -- is in line with the governor's antisprawl message. 
To go in this direction, said several elected officials, would just increase the level of cognitive dissonance in an administration that has been befuddling its friends and comforting its enemies quite a bit lately.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Smothers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); AIRPORTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); EXECUTIVES (56%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); STADIUMS AND ARENAS; HOCKEY, ICE 

COMPANY: MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (70%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

TICKER: CLI (NYSE) (70%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003 



292 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
War Would Upend Plans Of Publishers and Retailers

BYLINE:  By BILL GOLDSTEIN 

 BODY:
Truth may be the first casualty of war, but for book publishers the author tour is a close second. Publishers and book retailers are nervously calculating the effect of a war in Iraq, worrying about lost promotional time and lost revenue.
 Book publishing is almost entirely dependent on the free publicity that authors receive in newspapers and on television and radio. On important programs, the time devoted to entertainment features will shrink considerably if a war occurs. 
 The book industry does not need any more bad news. It still has not recovered from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the weak economy. At Barnes & Noble, the largest book retailer, sales revenue in February at stores open at least a year was off 4.4 percent from the same month the previous year. Revenue was down 12.3 percent at the chain's B. Dalton stores.
Unit sales of adult trade books at all outlets were up only 3 percent in 2002 over 2001, according to an Ipsos Book Trends study, which also reported an "anemic" 2 percent rise in total book spending.
Authors are regular guests on shows like "Good Morning America" on ABC-TV and "Fresh Air" on NPR radio, as well as on cable channels like MSNBC, Fox News and CNN. Bookings on these shows are a sure way to reach readers. When entertainment takes a back seat to news on such programs, it can damage the bottom line.
"Book sales just stopped after Sept. 11," said Jane Friedman, president and chief executive officer of HarperCollins, the publishing division of the News Corporation. Extrapolating from company research into the impact on sales of the 1991 gulf war and the Sept. 11 attacks, Ms. Friedman said: "The effect at the cash registers is going to be considerable. We have done numbers. It will be millions of dollars in lost revenue."
The slow buildup to a potential war has not affected the major houses' publishing schedules, which are often set as long as a year in advance. But with memories of the impact of Sept. 11 on book publicity still fresh, publishers are anticipating weeks of lost bookings and are resigned to the fragility of promotion plans.
On Sept. 11, 2001, three authors were scheduled to appear on NBC's "Today" show. Jack Welch, the former chairman of General Electric, promoted his autobiography early in the program. When the first plane hit the World Trade Center, the anchor, Matt Lauer, was interviewing the author Richard Hack about his biography of Howard Hughes. The segment was broadcast complete in most areas, but in New York, where the crash was first covered as local news, the segment ended abruptly with a cut-in from the local NBC station. 
The author of "What's the Number for 911 Again?: More Wacky 911 Calls," never made it on the show.
Even authors like Stephen King were affected. Mr. King's "Black House," a collaboration with Peter Straub, was published by Random House that week, and he was bumped from the "Today" show. "The book lost any momentum," said Tom Perry, publicity director for Random House, which is owned by Bertelsmann. Its sales were ultimately disappointing. "Any commitments that we had went by the wayside. We had Salman Rushdie on the road. We had to fold up camp and come home."
Jack Romanos, president and chief executive of Simon & Schuster, said it would be difficult during a war to get authors on the air if their books were not related to current events. "The focus will be on the war, if it happens, and we know we'll lose access to the media for publicity purposes for the duration," he said.
Andrea Smith, a "Today" show producer who oversees author bookings, said: "We are looking carefully at books that relate to the war. We are also trying to figure out what we might need to cancel if the war happens." She estimates that about 60 percent of the authors usually scheduled on "Today" have written news-related books. "If there is a war, a hundred percent would have to be news-related," she said. 
If there is a war, most of the air time will probably go to experts on the war and related topics. Some authors will benefit. Ahmed Rashid's "Taliban" was published by Yale University Press to little fanfare in the spring of 2001. After Sept. 11, the paperback edition of "Taliban" hit No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for nonfiction paperback. Karen Armstrong's "Islam: A Short History," (Modern Library/Random House, 2000) became a best seller more than a year after its publication. 
But the revenue from unexpected sales of books like these does not compensate for the losses on major books that fail to generate interest, Ms. Friedman said.
The damage to sales depends on the length of the war and its after-effects. Patty Neger, coordinating producer at "Good Morning America," said that after Sept. 11 it took at least a month before authors who were not experts on war-related topics appeared on the program. Though the program has not altered its booking schedule, Ms. Neger said she had compiled lists of appropriate books in case of a war and had asked publishers for contact numbers for experts who have written books.
"We're seeing what's appropriate and tasteful," she said, "and what we might have to move to a later date."
She recently booked Anthony Swofford, author of "Jarhead," a Marine's account of the 1991 gulf war, published by Scribner, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, which is owned by Viacom. "The timing was perfect," she said.
Later this month, Queen Noor, the widow of King Hussein of Jordan, will appear on the program to promote her autobiography, "Leap of Faith," published by Miramax Books. Her appearance could fit the mood of the time because Queen Noor, born Lisa Halaby, is from the United States and will presumably be able to address issues relating to the Middle East.
A tragedy like the terrorist attacks can abruptly change the public's taste in books: people look for information, not entertainment. In times of crisis, publishers also report a rise in sales for spirituality books.
"I would have thought people would want to escape," Ms. Friedman said, "but I've seen the numbers. It's strange to talk this way, but we had this experience only 18 months ago, and we think we know what the reaction will be."
The Sept. 11 attacks came as the important fall season was beginning. The spring and summer do not have the same concentration of blockbusters. War, one executive said, "might just ruin summer reading."
Scholastic must hope not. The mother of all escapist fiction, J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix," goes on sale June 29.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the potential effects of a war with Iraq on the publishing business misstated the release date for "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix." It is June 29, not June 21.



GRAPHIC: Photos: A book co-written by Stephen King, left, was released the week of Sept. 11, 2001, and sales were disappointing. Because of the attacks, Salman Rushdie, right, cut short a tour. Queen Noor of Jordan, below, will be promoting her new book this month. (Left, Getty Images; above, Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); BOOK PUBLISHING (91%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); PUBLISHING TRADE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); TRENDS (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); TERRORISM (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; ADVERTISING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; RADIO 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); NEWS CORP (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); JACK WELCH (50%) GOLDSTEIN, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) IRAQ (93%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) IRAQ; 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



293 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
3 Years Later, Investors Crave Safety

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Exactly three years ago today, all seemed bright to investors. Now there is little to cheer about, as investors who once were able to see only the positive now seem transfixed by what could go wrong.
 It was on March 10, 2000, that the Nasdaq composite index hit a peak of 5,048.62. It had doubled since the previous summer, and those who had warned of a bubble in technology stocks had been so wrong for so long that few listened to them any longer. 
 But they were about to be proved right. Within little more than a month, the Nasdaq had lost a third of its value, and while it temporarily rebounded after that, it has never come close to its old highs. 
Then, in March 2001, a recession began. Six months after that, two planes hit the World Trade Center, and another slammed into the Pentagon. The recession probably ended in late 2001, but the after-effects of the bubble continue to plague the economy. The telecommunications industry -- whose bubble was far larger than the Internet's, at least as measured by dollars invested and lost -- remains depressed, and the term "jobless recovery" is popular.
No wonder it is the one-time bears who are now most likely to get a respectful hearing from investors. Jack B. Grubman and Frank P. Quattrone, who three years ago could dole out millions in initial public offering profits, are now more likely to be spending time with their lawyers than with speculators seeking their wisdom and favors. The I.P.O. market is all but dead.
"The striking difference between now and then is that the supreme confidence that things would work out has been replaced by a ghoulish fascination with what could go wrong," said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig. A bear then, Mr. Barbera now thinks prices are depressed by concerns about Iraq, and expects a rally if a war goes well from the American perspective.
Warren E. Buffett repeatedly issued bearish pronouncements when stocks were nearing their peak, and he refused to buy technology stocks for the portfolio at Berkshire Hathaway, the company he runs. As a result, investors gradually concluded that he had lost his touch. From mid-1998 through the peak three years ago, the price of Berkshire Hathaway shares fell 47 percent, while the Nasdaq composite was rising 166 percent. Since then, Berkshire is up 56 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index is down 74 percent.
Mr. Buffett remains unimpressed by valuations. In his annual letter to shareholders, released last week, he said he could find very few stocks that seemed worth buying. "That dismal fact is testimony to the insanity of valuations reached during the Great Bubble," he wrote. "Unfortunately, the hangover may prove to be proportional to the binge."
Mr. Buffett's core holdings of eight stocks -- the largest being Coca-Cola and American Express -- declined 2 percent last year, far better than the 23 percent decline registered by the Standard & Poor's 500. Those holdings ended the year valued at $23 billion.
Despite his bearishness, the annual report issued over the weekend showed that Berkshire had put $350 million into the stock market during the year, selling $1.4 billion worth of stocks and buying $1.75 billion. But that amount paled against the $10 billion Berkshire put into the bond market. The report did not disclose which securities Berkshire bought or sold.
At the market's peak, Mr. Hoenig noted, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was comparing Internet stocks to lottery tickets. To an economist, lotteries and casinos are interesting because people pay to take risks even though they know that the oddsare against them. 
It turns out that Mr. Greenspan had something of a point. Most of the initial offerings near the peak turned into disasters, with the ones that doubled and tripled the first day of trading being among the worst. An exception is the Hotel Reservations Network, since renamed Hotels.com. It rose 62 percent on its first day of trading a couple of weeks before the peak and has more than doubled since March 2000. Unlike most of its peers in the late-bubble class of new offerings, that company is reporting growing profits.
For most investors, safety has become a watchword. Perhaps the safest investment one can think of is a Treasury bond with inflation protection, and investors have flocked to them. Over all, Lehman Brothers calculates, investors in inflation-protected Treasuries have seen gains of 46 percent over the last three years.
Conventional Treasuries have also done well, as the yield on 10-year Treasuries, at 6.39 percent when the stock market peaked, has fallen to 3.62 percent, producing substantial profits for investors.
Stocks that pay dividends have done better than those that do not, and there is a small trend toward paying dividends, with Microsoft issuing its first payment last week. Three years ago Microsoft was the stock market's most valuable company. It still is, but its shares are down 53 percent. 
On the market's way up, the belief in stocks spread to most parts of the world. But it turned out that there was little safety to be found from international diversification. Japan's market had been depressed for years, but even it put on a rally in the months before the United States market peaked. Since then the Nikkei 225 is down more than 60 percent, measured in dollars. The markets in France and Germany have lost more than half their value, and Britain has done almost as badly.
Among American companies, some shares have done well since March 2000. Seven of the 30 stocks in the Dow industrials are up, led by Altria, the former Philip Morris, which has gained 88 percent. Cigarette litigation did not kill Altria, and its dividend remains high. Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble and 3M, all deemed boring at the peak and all losers in the final six months of the Nasdaq run, are each up at least 50 percent over the last three years.
The strongest part of the American economy has been the housing market, and indexes of home-building stocks have doubled since the overall market peaked. NVR, a company that builds and finances homes, trades for nearly seven times what it was worth three years ago.
But another industry that has benefited from surprisingly strong sales -- autos -- has not won favor on Wall Street. Detroit has kept sales high, but only with big discounts, and recently there have been signs that sales may be starting to weaken. Since the peak, Ford is down 68 percent and General Motors is off 60 percent.
What is most amazing is just how many substantial companies have lost a huge part of their value since the peak. The list of companies that are down at least 90 percent includes Lucent, Qwest, JDS Uniphase, Gateway, LSI Logic, Corning and Sun Microsystems. Meanwhile, Cisco, Yahoo, EMC, El Paso, AMR, Delta, Motorola, Texas Instruments, Nextel and AOL have lost at least 80 percent.
It is a performance that seemed unthinkable three years ago, when it was taken for granted that big risks brought big returns. Although the risks must certainly be lower now, far fewer investors are willing to take them.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column inBusiness Day yesterday, about the third anniversary of the peak in the Nasdaq stock market, gave an incorrect surname at one point for the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig. He is Robert Barbera, not Hoenig.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Grasso, right, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, and William R. Johnston, then the exchange's president, on March 16, 2000, when the Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 500 points. (Associated Press)(pg. C8) Chart: "Some 3-Year Winners"Performance since March 10, 2000. NVR home builder: +588%Apollo Group adult education: +368Lockheed Martin military contractor: +159Southern Co. traditional utility: +120Hotels.com Internet I.P.O.: +111Altria formerly Philip Morris: +88H&R Block tax preparer: +85Wrigley chewing gum maker: +68Berkshire Hathaway Warren Buffetts company: +57(pg. C8) Chart: "Deflated Giants, Enormous Falls"Only four companies were worth more than $400 billion three years ago. All are down at least 40 percent. COMPANY, BY SIZE MicrosoftCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -53.3% CiscoCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -80.6 General ElectricCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -44.6 IntelCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -73.4 Technology and telecommunications stocks were the worst hit, but others were also among those falling at least 80 percent. Internet Capital GroupCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -99.8% PalmCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -99.2 Priceline.comCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -98.6 JDS UniphaseCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -97.9 LucentCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -96.9 QwestCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -93.7 Sun MicrosystemsCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -93.2 YahooCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -89.0 EMCCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -88.4 El PasoCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -87.8 Delta Air LinesCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -81.4 AOLCHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -80.7 Global LossesThe pain has been felt around the world. INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -74.1% INDEX: Brazil: BovespaDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -70.7 INDEX: Argentina: MervalDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -69.9 INDEX: Germany: DAXDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -65.2 INDEX: Japan: Nikkei 225DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -62.5 INDEX: France: CAC 40DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -54.8 INDEX: Britain: FTSE 100DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -45.9 INDEX: South Korea: KOSPI 200DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -42.3 INDEX: S.& P. 500DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -40.6 INDEX: Mexico: BolsaDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -39.3 INDEX: Canada: S.& P-TSXDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -33.3 INDEX: Dow Jones IndustrialsDOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -22.0 INDEX: Australia: S&P-ASK 200DOLLAR-BASED CHANGE SINCE MARCH 10, 2000: -14.2 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); BONDS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); LAWYERS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (68%) NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



294 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Discord Over Concerts in the Heartland; 
A Presenter of High Culture in Small Towns Angers Fans and Artists

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
This nation's most venerable concert presenter, which has brought high musical culture to the American heartland for nearly 75 years, is in disarray, with canceled bookings and nonpayments and bounced checks to dozens of artists.
 The resulting uproar is ravaging this institution, Community Concerts, already battered for years by changing tastes and by competition from television, recordings and a growing menu of other electronic entertainments. There are serious questions about the company's ability to survive under a problem-plagued new owner and to continue servicing subscription associations of music lovers from Clearfield, Pa., to Redmond, Ore. Next season, 2003-4, is in shambles, some local organizers said. 
 "Oh, I did hundreds of them," said Roberta Peters, the coloratura soprano, recalling recitals for opera-starved fans in the 1950's and 60's in small towns across America. "My God, they waited for this and lapped it up," she said. "They wouldn't let you off the stage." To hear of the company's decline is "just pathetic," she said. "It's the end of an era." 
Community Concerts goes back to 1927, when seven leading impresarios with ties to stars like Ezio Pinza and Jascha Heifetz and to the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Metropolitan Opera, met at the elite Lotos Club in Manhattan to fashion an audacious plan to export musical culture to the hinterlands. 
With the added backing three years later of the Columbia Broadcasting System, the new entity, the Community Concerts Corporation, was complete, and for much of its history it was as close to a cultural monopoly as the nation may ever have seen. After seeding the country with hundreds of nonprofit audience associations made up of local subscribers, Community Concerts filled its bills with affiliated artists, whose performances it beamed out to radio listeners. 
Now that legacy is in tatters.
"We do owe artists money," said the owner, Brenda Trawick, who bought Community Concerts in 1999 and relocated it last summer, with another of her companies, Trawick Artists Management, to Charlotte, N.C., from Manhattan. She admitted to nonpayments and "an error" that led to bad checks, although she would not estimate how much they amounted to. 
She said she was trying to recover from years of heavy losses and would make good to her clients. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported the artists' complaints last month. 
The artists, including Elisabeth von Trapp of the family singers who inspired "The Sound of Music," the Van Cliburn piano competition medalist Antonio Pompa-Baldi and numerous soloists, ensembles and dance troupes, said they were owed a combined total of $1.5 million or more. Some are particularly bitter that, knowing of the financial difficulties, Ms. Trawick sent them on the road only to encounter uncovered expenses and missing paychecks.
"I would never have sent them out if I felt it was not going to materialize," Ms. Trawick said.
Ms. von Trapp, a granddaughter of the family matriarch Maria, said she was owed $59,000. "It's become a downer for us," she said. "It's very disappointing not having them stick to their bargain." 
Some artists said that after they complained about overdue money, Ms. Trawick retaliated by telling the concert associations the artists had canceled future bookings. She denied doing that.
Some local organizers, like Bob Ware of the Community Concert Association in Payson, Ariz., where 870 subscribers pay $50 for a six-concert package, have cut their ties to the company and are booking talent elsewhere. "We've lost trust," said Mr. Ware, a volunteer. 
Some artists have contacted the Manhattan district attorney's office. Meanwhile the furor is playing out in civil lawsuits and barrages of e-mail messages between the artists and Ms. Trawick's office, many of which were made available to The New York Times by the artists. And some of the 320 local Community Concert Associations have begun paying artists directly.
"None of her excuses about rising costs, bad economy, etc., have stood up to scrutiny," another organizer, Diane K. Mitchell of Hemet, Calif., wrote recently in an e-mail to members of other concert associations. "The fees she was supposed to pay the artists were known well in advance and her expenses cannot possibly have amounted to more than the commissions she collected (which, we have discovered to our dismay, were often as high as 50 percent)." 
At stake is a historic cultural network that at its peak after World War II included about 1,200 nonprofit associations that drew many of the biggest names in music: Marian Anderson, Rosa Ponselle, Beverly Sills, Leontyne Price, Samuel Ramey, the Brothers Four and the Preservation Hall Jazz Band. In recent years the associations have been organizing 1,000 to 2,000 performances a season to audiences of several hundred to thousands.
The 1930 merger united William S. Paley's fledgling CBS with the concert management company of Arthur Judson -- simultaneously manager of the New York Philharmonic and the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra and founder of a radio company -- and six powerful music managers, including F. C. Coppicus, the former secretary of the Metropolitan Opera. Community Concerts later came under the wing of Judson's successor company, Columbia Artists Management Inc., known as CAMI, long the dean of classical artist management agencies, on West 57th Street in Manhattan. 
Rise Stevens, the mezzo-soprano, who gave 50 or more Community Concerts a year starting shortly after her Met debut in 1938, recalls those performances vividly. "It was marvelous really, almost like pioneering," she said. "Those houses were packed. And the encores! That's what they were waiting for."
But in recent years Community Concerts fell on hard times and added lighter fare. In 1993 CAMI spun it off as a separate entity that no longer featured just CAMI artists. 
Ms. Trawick bought it six years later for a price that CAMI put at about $1 million, and moved it to Charlotte to save money, she said. 
The daughter of a wealthy Florida building contractor, Ms. Trawick, 54, is a former interior decorator turned talent manager of musical artists and models. Included on her roster in the mid-90's were the mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves, the tenor Ben Heppner, and Ms. Trawick's husband, Donald Hamrick, also a tenor. Their son, Jacob Hamrick, works for her. 
"We've certainly been very slow to pay," Ms. Trawick acknowledged. She called the bounced checks "an error on our part that we tried to correct as much as possible" and attributed the nonpayments to substantial losses. But she said "no money was improperly diverted" and promised that all clients would be fully paid after a recapitalization was complete. 
She also denied that she failed to turn over performance fees from the community associations to her artists, contending that Community Concerts was not a booking agency that collected performers' fees as a fiduciary organization but a presenter that contracted separately with artists and community associations. 
"We are unique," she said. "We do not collect on behalf of artists. We buy our product before we sell it."
But local organizers said that regardless of how Ms. Trawick construed it, they paid her for performances, but the artists did not get that money. "What did she spend money on that was more important than paying the artists?" asked Ms. Mitchell of the Hemet, Calif., concert association. 
In a Feb. 14 e-mail message sent to concert associations, Ms. Trawick acknowledged financial problems but charged unnamed artists and managers with leveling "unfounded accusations, threats and slander towards this company." 
Among those due money is CAMI. "She owes us $60,000 for a performance of the Sao Paulo Philharmonic in Sacramento last fall," said Ronald A. Wilford, CAMI's chairman and chief executive. 
Ms. Trawick said that she in turn had claims against CAMI. 
One artist manager, Joseph Pastore of Katonah, N.Y., who said his clients were owed $38,000, recently brought copies of bounced checks to the office of Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney. His chief of investigations, Dan Castleman, said, "We are doing a preliminary examination to see whether to launch a full-scale investigation." For a successful case, prosecutors must prove an intention to commit fraud.
Glen Rose, an Oregon pianist who performs Irving Berlin and Cole Porter programs, said he was owed $12,850 for seven shows in the fall, "to me a big amount because my whole income is under $30,000." The one check he received bounced three weeks later, he said.
Andrew Schulman, a guitarist, said that he and his ensemble, the Abaca String Band, were also sent a check that bounced.
Mr. Pompa-Baldi, who shared a silver medal at the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in 2001, has yet to be paid $12,500 for last fall's engagements, his agent said.
Rob Robbins, an executive managerat the Herbert Barrett management agency, said that two of his clients, Cantus, a 10-member male vocal group, and Trio Voronezh, Russian classical and folk artists, were each owed about $50,000. "I don't think in all my time I've ever seen a case where so many artists and groups and presenters were hurt," he said.
Mr. Rose, the pianist, said that many artists initially thought they were alone in not getting paid. He said he spent hours on the Internet tracking down other Trawick clients with similar grievances to amass a list that includes 57 artists listing claims of more than $1.5 million.
Contracts obtained by some of the artists show that Ms. Trawick's company was charging some associations $3,975 for a concert and paying the artist $2,500.
In an e-mail reply to Ms. Trawick's Feb. 14 message to the associations, Lorraine Rennie, president of an Atlanta booking agency, Top Entertainment and Events, which claims to be owed $115,000, wrote, "You have stolen money from me just as surely as if you had come into my home in the middle of the night."
One former associate of Ms. Trawick, John Aaron, who sold her his Boston artist management agency in 1996 and worked for her until 2000, said he grew disaffected when he saw artists having to beg her for their money. "Her respect for the artists was basically nil," he said.
Ms. Trawick said she spent her career working with artists and called that comment "ludicrous."
Gene Stanley, a retired Army officer who , volunteers for the 70-year-old local concert association in El Paso, said that even though his group had partially paid Community Concerts, when artists complained they had not been compensated, his group paid them directly to assure their appearances and deducted the amount from future payments due to Ms. Trawick. 
She said that given her problems, she had authorized some of the community associations to pay artists directly in some cases when the artists complained.
Some of the artists have questioned whether any of their unpaid money went into a $1.5 million investment by Ms. Trawick in the touring act "Three Mo' Tenors," featuring three black singers playing off the Pavarotti-Domingo-Carreras phenomenon. Ms. Trawick said that no Community Concert funds went into that show. 
She said she was determined to rebuild the company and its base of community associations which, she said, had been growing under her ownership.
"If we were looking for the easy route we would have closed our doors," she said, adding that she gave up her salary and contributed her own assets to keep the company afloat. 
Many artists remain unforgiving. "In reality, if Brenda Trawick had a trump card she would have played it a long time ago," said Mr. Pastore, the agent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Over the decades Community Concerts has brought the likes of Leontyne Price and Zubin Mehta to small cities across America.; Musicians and artists' managers who are owed money by the beleaguered Community Concerts gathered at the Manhattan home of Andrew Schulman, with guitar, left. (Jennifer Altman)(pg. E1); Bob Ware and others in Payson, Ariz., say they have lost trust in Community Concerts. (Richard Haddad for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DANCE (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%) MUSIC; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%) COMMUNITY CONCERTS 

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: TRAWICK, BRENDA; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



295 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: AOL Is Planning a Fast-Forward Answer to TiVo 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
Personal video recorders like TiVo mock everything a television network is about. The devices let viewers thumb their noses at program schedules and, even worse, fast-forward past commercials. To many at the networks and studios, it is a cruel joke that could drive them out of business.
 AOL Time Warner, however, is trying to beat TiVo Inc. at its own game. 
 A secretive team of AOL Time Warner executives has begun talking with other major cable operators and media companies about speeding up and co-opting the potential revolution that TiVo kicked off. The company's system, called Mystro TV, is AOL Time Warner's gambit in an imminent battle over the future of the television business. Satellite services, cable systems and television manufacturers are all racing to promote their versions of the TiVo-like technologies that threaten to wreak havoc on networks and studios, and AOL Time Warner wants to put its own stamp on the evolution of the medium. 
Its plans will turn in part on whether the company can end two years of internal discord following AOL's acquisition of Time Warner. If the company's often antagonistic divisions can cooperate, their collective arms reach to all sides of the television business. The company's Turner Broadcasting and WB are the largest collection of networks. Warner Brothers is the largest television studio. And Time Warner Cable is the most technologically advanced and second-largest cable operator. 
AOL Time Warner already has a track record of directing the technological course of the entertainment business, most recently by single-handledly forcing Hollywood to adopt the low-priced sale of DVD's. Now it has dedicated significant financial and personnel resources to Mystro TV. Two years ago, the company transferred Time Warner Cable's top executive, Joseph J. Collins, and top engineer, James A. Chiddix, to the secretive project full time. Meanwhile, the cable division has already implemented some elements of the technology. Viewers in New York and elsewhere can subscribe to an HBO on-demand channel, enabling them to watch "The Sopranos" and other offerings on their own schedule with fast-forward and rewind. Viewers in Hawaii can watch the nightly news and other programs whenever they want, and the cable system is testing new forms of targeted advertising there as well.
But as the company rushes to stay ahead of competing services from satellite and electronics companies, AOL Time Warner must also overcome questions about its technology. At the same time, Mystro TV needs to win the cooperation of networks, studios and the creators of shows. So far, most industry executives -- even some at AOL Time Warner's networks and studios -- say they are dubious about the feasibility of the idea. 
The essence of AOL Time Warner's Mystro TV is a technology that uses a cable system itself to provide viewers capabilities similar to computerized personal video recorders like TiVo: watching programs on their own schedules, with fast-forward and rewind. But it also lets networks set the parameters, dictating which shows users can reschedule, and it also creates ways fornetworks to insert commercials.
Two senior AOL Time Warner executives said the company was hoping to begin rolling out service within two years. They said the company planned to sell the Mystro TV service to other competing cable operators, just as it sold HBO, potentially giving Mystro a central role as a gateway between television networks and viewers around the country. 
For now, senior AOL Time Warner executives said the company is trying to keep its efforts under wraps, partly because details may still change. The company was also stung by excessive publicity surrounding a disappointing test of interactive TV technology in Orlando, Fla., in the mid-1990's. A spokeswoman for Mystro TV declined to comment.
A confidential CD-ROM demonstrating a prototype of the service depicts a viewer arriving home in the middle of "Friends," (produced by Warner Brothers and shown on NBC) and restarting it from the beginning. Another viewer pauses a broadcast of "Charmed" (produced by Warner Brothers and shown on WB). "Go ahead, answer the phone," the demo suggests, "Mystro TV allows you to pause what you are watching."
As with the current HBO on-demand service, viewers can scroll through an on-screen programming schedule to look backward and forward at available shows. They can watch "Sex and the City" while "The Sopranos" is on, or preview next week's episode of either. "Want to watch a show that aired last night or a few hours ago?" the demonstration asks, "Simply go backward in the guide and press 'Play.' No advanced planning required."
Those capabilities frighten many at the networks, studios and Hollywood talent agencies, all of whom control crucial rights to the use of their shows. Letting viewers reshuffle the TV schedule cripples the network's ability to build audiences for new shows by putting them on after hits. More troublesome, the easy fast-forwarding promises to deprive networks of revenue by decimating the audience for commercials. 
But the demonstration also stresses that the Mystro TV system offers networks and studios considerable advantages over in-home personal video recorders such as TiVo or ReplayTV, which is made by Sonicblue. Not only can networks determine the availability of their shows, but Mystro TV prevents consumers from making, storing or sharing copies (something ReplayTV allows). Mystro also does not automatically skip commercials or even include a fast-forward button that leaps past one 30-second commercial at a time (another feature of ReplayTV.) 
While a program is paused or rewinding, networks can insert new commercials during the process or display them around the periphery of the screen. On the CD-ROM demo, for example, a viewer pausing "Charmed" might see a commercial for Special K or Pizza Hut.
The demonstration also promises advertisers new ways to target viewers. A viewer watching a car commercial might be able to select an additional view of the interior or safety features. Or one household might see a commercial for a luxury car while another sees a pitch for an economy model. "Increase the effectiveness of advertising by sending different ads to different homes," the demonstration promises.
Unlike TiVo or other set-top appliances, the demonstration notes, viewers could try out Mystro TV by pushing a button on their remote, an enormous advantage to wooing customers. (Consumers would presumably pay a monthly fee for Mystro service.)
But the thrust of AOL Time Warner's pitch to networks and studios is an implicit threat that the personal video recorder technology is coming, with or without their permission. So far, only about 700,000 of the most avid television mavens have bought TiVo devices, which are cumbersome to install and cost $200 to $400 in addition to a monthly fee. But two major satellite TV companies, EchoStar Communications and the DirectTV business of the Hughes Electronics unit of General Motors, have recently begun promoting TiVo-like set-top boxes as part of their services. In the fall, Toshiba is expected to begin selling a television with a similar device already installed. Time Warner Cable itself is hedging its bets by investing in TiVo-style cable boxes. It included similar functions in about 60,000 of the set-top boxes it has already installed, with 200,000 more expected to be delivered by next year.
Still, rolling out Mystro TV will not be as easy as an engineer pushing a button, mainly because of the elaborate telecommunications capacity required. TiVo and similar other devices store recorded programs in a hard drive on top of the set; the Mystro TV system would store the programming in hubs of cable networks. For the cable company, each additional user would mean squeezing another stream of video content through its cables. Then the system requires software to play digital traffic cop, managing the flow of so many distinct transmissions at once. 
Michael Ramsay, the chief executive of TiVo, said he doubted AOL Time Warner could handle the capacity. "We have never been able to figure how you could do that economically," he said. But for their part, Time Warner Cable engineers have told industry audiences that they have been building their capacity toward this goal for years, so they think they are ready to tackle the logistics.
The requisite deals are even more tangled. Unlike recording on a personal hard drive, storing programming at a central location entails reaching licensing agreements with the owners of the shows -- studios, networks, producers, and others.
Executives at the major networks declined to comment. Privately, many acknowledge that they fear the spread of personal video recorders could do to their business what Napster did to music. They also worry that letting viewers watch shows like "Friends" at any time might sap the lucrative demand for reruns in syndication. For now, some senior network executives say they are putting their faith in the couch potato factor: many consumers apparently prefer to sit in front of whatever happens to be on, including commercials. 
For now, said Josh Bernoff, an analyst at Forrester Research, the fear of personal video recorders is not potent enough to drive Hollywood into the arms of Mystro TV. But, he said, the idea behind Mystro TV was "the holy grail" of television -- a vast library of programming at the viewer's finger tips. 
"If you could get the license to everything that was ever broadcast on television, could you create a tremendous video-on-demand service?," he said. "Oh yeah, then all the technical problems would be worth it. But its getting the licenses that is the problem."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A prototype of a personal video recorder service of AOL Time Warner promotes a network's ability to insert ads when a viewer presses pause. (Photo Illustration by James C. Best Jr./The New York Times)(pg. C1); A TiVo personal video recorder. AOL Time Warner is talking to media companies and cable operators about its own system, called Mystro TV. (Lee Celano)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CD & DVD DRIVES (79%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (73%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (60%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; RECORDING EQUIPMENT 

COMPANY: AOL INC (96%); TIVO INC (85%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER INC; TIVO INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (96%); TIVO (NASDAQ) (85%); TWC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (85%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



296 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Nairobi National Park Journal; 
In Africa, Oddly, Animal World Is Terra Incognita

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: NAIROBI NATIONAL PARK, Kenya 

 BODY:
All across Africa, the tour guides and park rangers guiding foreigners on safari have a little secret: The wild animals are just as exotic to many of them as the are to the tourists.
 Foreigners may imagine that Africans grow up outrunning lions, monitoring the roar of elephants or gazing at giraffes loping past their homes. But many Africans, if not most, have never been face to face with the animals that tourists come to see. 
 "I remember seeing giraffes in books at school," said a 26-year-old ranger at Murchison Falls National Park in Uganda, which is teeming with giraffes and other animals. "When I saw a real one, and it was only a couple of years ago, I was so happy." 
Africa's population of wild animals has steadily declined in recent decades, and those that remain are increasingly confined to preserves. A vast majority of the visitors to those pricey parks are not Africans.
The widespread lack of knowledge about the wildlife alarms conservationists, who say the animals' preservation depends on the next generation of Africans. "The future is not secure for wildlife unless children learn to love these animals," said Michael Wamithi, the new director of the Kenya Wildlife Service.
In Uganda, the Mountain Gorilla Conservation Fund, a Colorado-based group, has begun to teach children living near the habitats of the rare gorillas of the animals' importance.
"When we started, the children didn't know anything about these gorillas, not the first thing," said Ruth M. Keesling, founder of the group. "The people around the park need to understand how important these animals are."
A study of park attendance in South Africa found that the country's whites were far more likely than blacks to enter the parks. Cost is a big factor since a huge economic disparity still exists between the races there. But the researchers said they had also found that animal viewing was just not high on many African families' list of preferred weekend outings.
The migration of Africans to the big cities has also had a significant effect on their exposure to wildlife.
In the case of Nairobi, at least, this sprawling wildlife park sits at the edge of the capital, accessible to city dwellers and thousands of African children visiting each week on school field trips.
At the entrance is a small zoo, where abandoned young animals are caged for close-up viewing. In the park itself, 75 different large mammals have been spotted, including giraffes, leopards, wildebeest, monkeys and zebras. The rough roads and thick vegetation give the feeling of remoteness, although skyscrapers can be seen in the distance.
Such encounters with wild animals are unimaginable in countries like Somalia, Sudan and Congo where huge numbers of animals have been wiped out by war. Young Africans there say their grandparents regale them with stories about how prevalent animals used to be.
The Uganda park ranger, refusing to give his name out of embarrassment, said he had grown up in eastern Uganda, where wildlife was scarce when he was a boy. A former soldier, he said he had never seen an animal more exotic than an antelope before signing up to be a ranger in 2001.
When he first reported for duty, he had to study photographs of the animals, learn their behavior and go on drives to learn how to spot them in the wild. He was not the only one.
"Many of us are ignorant of our own animals," said Sam Bamwesigye, who drives tourists on safaris throughout Uganda. "The tourists have studied up and sometimes they know more than we do. I never tell them that I was in my 20's before I saw a giraffe. I just tell them the gestation period of the giraffe as though I grew up knowing it."
In Kenya, a former schoolteacher, David Kimani, loads up a bus full of schoolchildren twice a year to introduce them to the animals.
During a recent visit of his Juhudi Children's Club to Masai Mara, a premier park near the Kenya-Tanzania border, the rambunctious children were fascinated by the landscape. "We saw a lion hunting another animal, and the bus went completely quiet," he recalled. "One of the boys said it was better than a cartoon."
Mr. Kimani, 34, admits that he is often as impressed as the children. He saw his first elephant just two years ago while on a field trip to Amboseli National Park, near Mount Kilimanjaro. "It's every child's dream to see these animals -- African children, too," Mr. Kimani said. "When I finally saw an elephant, I knew what I had been missing."
Of course, many Africans do still grow up amid the animals.
There are regular clashes in Kenya between villagers living near wildlife parks and the animals that spill out of them. In January, for instance, officials in eastern Kenya closed a school bordering Shimba Hills National Park because elephants were causing havoc in the area and scaring away pupils.
Many ranchers and farmers consider elephants and lions dangerous impediments to their livelihoods, not animals to be admired. Others see the animals as meals. In Congo and Central African Republic, as well as Kenya, there is a thriving trade in illegal bush meat.
Despite the naivete many tour guides display, there are still those who can regale visitors with eye-popping tales of their youth.
Patrick Keiwua, 26, a Masai who leads tourists through the gorges of Hell's Gate National Park, northwest of Nairobi, is one. He has a sure-fire way of increasing his tips: He unbuttons his shirt midway through his nature walk and uncovers a long and gruesome scar across his chest. It was put there, he says, by the claw of a lion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Samburu National Reserve in northern Kenya, tourists on safari try to catch a glimpse of wildlife. Many Africans, if not most, have never been face to face with the animals that tourists come to see.; Nairobi has a wildlife park that is accessible to city dwellers and that is visited by thousands of African children each week. A group surveyed a cheetah at a zoo at the entrance where abandoned young animals are caged. (Photographs by Evelyn Hockstein/Polaris, for The New York Times) Map of Kenya highlighting Nairobi National Park: The skyscrapers of the city can be seen from Nairobi National Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); ANIMALS (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MAMMALS (90%); PRIMATES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); FAMILY (71%); RACE & RACISM (62%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%) WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; SAFARIS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATION FUND (55%)

PERSON: LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (93%) COLORADO, USA (79%) KENYA (99%); AFRICA (97%); UGANDA (92%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%) AFRICA; KENYA; NAIROBI (KENYA)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



297 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Court Rejects Claim by Motorola 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
An appeals court has dismissed on procedural grounds federal racketeering charges brought by Motorola and Nokia against the family that owns Telsim, Turkey's No. 2 wireless telephone operator.
 The three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York said in a unanimous decision late on Friday that the judge handling the case had "incorrectly decided" that Motorola and Nokia could file the federal charges. 
 The Uzan family, one of Turkey's wealthiest and the owner of Telsim, still faces fraud charges filed under Illinois state law by Motorola and Nokia. Motorola is based in Illinois.
But the appeals panel directed the judge, Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Manhattan, to decide whether those remaining claims fall under his jurisdiction.
In January 2002, Motorola and Nokia sued several Uzan family members, accusing them of borrowing almost $3 billion from the companies with no intention of repaying the loans. In their lawsuit, the companies cited the United States antiracketeering laws and sought repayment plus damages.
The loans dated to 1998, when the industry routinely lent money to customers for equipment purchases.
The Uzans have said that the federal district court does not have jurisdiction over the dispute.
The racketeering charges could be reinstated at a later date, but not until the cellphone makers have determined the value of the collateral they were to receive for their loans and the exact amount of damage suffered, the appeals court said in its decision.
The appeals court also instructed Judge Rakoff to revisit his decision to bar arbitration proceedings in Switzerland with the International Chamber of Commerce's arbitration court, which was required by contracts with Telsim. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); APPEALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%) TELSIM (TURKISH CO); MOTOROLA INC; NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (93%); NOK1V (BIT) (93%); NOK (NYSE) (93%); MSI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%) SIC3663 RADIO & TV COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: UZAN FAMILY; RAKOFF, JED S (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (53%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



298 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Investment Losses Hurt Major Hospital 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
The clinic that bears this city's name was always a jewel of the American health care system, dispensing world-class care that cut no corners and made money, too. Its billion-dollar endowment rivaled that of giants like New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Memorial Sloan-Kettering in New York.
 But the clinic, the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, is struggling these days to live up to that privileged past. Nearly $500 million of its wealth -- almost a third of the assets it once had -- has vanished because of aggressive bets on a handful of technology stocks that fizzled. 
 Some doctors are being asked to work longer hours and on Saturdays, ostensibly to benefit patients, although some doctors suspect it is as much about increasing billings. Routine investments on computer systems and on nursing stations are being postponed, and a new chief financial officer is arranging a $750 million debt refinancing plan that he hopes will delay $140 million in loan payments for at least seven years. 
But the most painful scar on the Cleveland psyche is the delay of a $300 million heart center, which was envisioned as a symbol of the hospital's status as the premier heart center in the country.
The building was also to have been the gateway to the main campus and should already have been rising along University Circle. This is the part of the city where the clinic's sleek towers; three hotels, including a new Intercontinental; twin helicopter pads; soaring skyways; and ivy-draped waiting rooms already form a medical metropolis.
Now, the heart center will be built only if donors come forward -- a tough blow to Dr. Floyd Loop, the clinic's chief executive and a cardiac surgeon, for whom it was a pet project. He did not return several calls seeking comment.
Financial experts say the Cleveland Clinic's situation is not unique. Many large hospital systems that had been using stock market returns to cover rising costs and skimpy insurance reimbursements have similar problems, they say.
"This is something that has impacted just about all large systems," said Craig Kornett, an analyst at Fitch Inc. who tracks more than 200 hospitals.
The clinic just happens to be an extreme hard-luck case.
Records show it had $1.2 billion in its long-term investment pool in late 1999. Nearly half of that money was in roughly two dozen high-flying stocks when the stock market began to unravel in early 2000. Largely because the board was reluctant to tinker with a formula that had produced at least $900 million in gains by the late 1990's, the clinic's investment portfolio dwindled to $650 million by last July, according to figures provided by a senior executive and by Moody's Investor Service, a leading rating agency.
Pension funds, which dabbled in the same stocks, ended 2001 with $368 million in assets, compared with $537 million two years earlier, records show. Ordinarily, the clinic makes enough money treating the sick to keep up with its pension obligations. But the losses mean the clinic must raise $240 million in pension contributions in the next two years.
Citing the pension problem and other concerns, Moody's downgraded the hospital's bonds one notch in October, from Aa3 to A1. On Thursday, Standard & Poor's announced that it, too, had lowered the rating, this time from A-plus to A.
Clinic officials say they can meet all obligations, including those to retirees.
"We're attempting to be more conservative in the handling of our investments," Michael O'Boyle, the new chief financial officer, said. "We're trying to run the organization profitably and trying to rebuild the balance sheet over time, while trying to be more frugal with capital expenditures."
Privately, Dr. Loop has told colleagues to remember that only some of the decline in assets was from stock market losses. Just as much, he said, occurred because management took $500 million from investments to build some of the finery on the campus, including a new cancer center, a new eye institute and a revamped research center.
The expansion in those years might have been fine if money were not an issue now. The clinic had 80 directors, many of them quite generous. An important director was Al Lerner, the billionaire banker who brought professional football back to Cleveland when he paid $530 million for the new Cleveland Browns. Just before his death in October, Forbes magazine reported his worth at $4.3 billion.
Though Brooklyn-born, his attachment to Cleveland was deep. He and his wife gave $10 million in 1993 to University Hospitals of Cleveland and $16 million in 1997 to the clinic for its research center. Last year, the Lerners pledged an additional $100 million to the clinic to help start a five-year medical college that will work with Case Western Reserve University to train researchers.
But his wealth and affection for the clinic may also have partly clouded the judgment of the other directors when Mr. Lerner was steering the clinic heavily into stocks, current and former executives say.
"It's not just loyalty," said J. B. Silvers, professor of health systems management at nearby Case Western Reserve University. "It's also fear. Any time you deal with a big donor, you have to be concerned with ramifications. Whether it's good governance or not, it's reality."
Until he died, with Dr. Loop at his bedside, Mr. Lerner led the board's 21-member finance committee. He had been battling brain cancer since May 2001 and was too ill to attend meetings as far back as April 2002. The board's chairman, Malachi Mixon, presided at those meetings, but the clinic was reluctant to transfer power then, just as it is now reluctant to take down the picture of Mr. Lerner in a display devoted to current trustees. "There are very few Al Lerners out there," Mr. O'Boyle said when asked about the photograph.
Mr. Lerner's immediate family declined to comment. But others who knew him, including current and former executives of the clinic and people on Wall Street, say Mr. Lerner's bullishness on stocks carried weight with other board members. "How do you argue with a guy who has $4 billion in his back pocket?" asked one person who saw Mr. Lerner prevail often.
That unflinching belief in the stock market paid off after 1993, when the clinic moved into stocks in a big way. The money was so good that the clinic cashed out most of its debt securities in 1997 and put that money in stocks, too. Two years later, the clinic weeded out two money managers who specialized in bargain-priced stocks, leaving three managers handling the rest. "It wasn't as balanced a mix as you'd like," said Beth I. Wexler, an analyst from Moody's.
One of the three, Oak Associates Ltd., based in Akron, made the mix even more lopsided by betting big on a few favorite stocks like Cisco Systems and Advent Software. A spokesman for Oak said the firm did not comment on its clients.
Then, in September 2000, the clinic's finance committee met to discuss shifting $400 million of its stocks into safer instruments. Mr. Lerner asked for each member's thoughts. Seven favored hedging and only five wanted to stay the course, according to a person at the meeting, who said Mr. Lerner then tabled the discussion to a later session. 
"People respected Al for his financial acumen," Mr. Mixon said. "There are not a lot of people who have done what he's done. So he obviously had a lot of influence."
By the end of 2001, the clinic had lost $340 million in its long-term investment pool and $140 million in its pension assets -- $480 million in all, Mr. O'Boyle said.
Results from 2002 will be available in March. All Mr. O'Boyle will say is not to expect a miracle.
Clinic officials can only hope that donors will be understanding. Mr. Lerner stuck with a $100 million pledge, even after Dr. Loop came to his home to detail the full extent of the loss. "It hasn't caused the Lerner family to break with the clinic," said James H. Berick, a longtime family lawyer, who added that the family intended to honor the pledge.
Nor is the clinic out of the woods. Equities make up 65 percent of the long-term pool and 50 percent of the pension funds, compared with 95 percent at the peak. But three money managers still handle the stock portions; one is still Oak.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the Cleveland Clinic complex. A heart center, symbolic of its status in that field, has been delayed. (David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); CARDIOLOGY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); DEBT FINANCING (68%); HELICOPTERS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; FINANCES; HEALTH INSURANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOCTORS; WORKING HOURS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; NURSING AND NURSES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CLINIC; CLEVELAND CLINIC FOUNDATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%) OHIO, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



299 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: A Good Pick in New Jersey 

 BODY:
Too often the political news out of New Jersey offers little cause for celebration: questions about fund-raising, an acting governor who had to resign in embarrassment, a senator who did the same. So, Gov. 
James McGreevey's appointment of Anthony Coscia to lead the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was welcome news.
 This is a very important time for the Port Authority, which governs three airports and the bridges and tunnels that cross the Hudson, as well as numerous economic development projects. One of those projects was the World Trade Center, making the Port Authority a crucial player in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. That means the new head of the authority needs to be a fair-minded public servant who answers to the larger needs of the area, not the narrow political forces that have plagued the agency's business in the past. 
 Mr. McGreevey, who has been having some trouble recently with other appointments to his administration, at first chose his old political pal Charles Kushner for the job. Mr. Kushner dropped out after questions arose about campaign contributions. By contrast Mr. Coscia, a state economic development official, drew praise from good-government groups and even from Mr. McGreevey's critics. The reason may be that he is known for intelligence and integrity, not political donations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (56%) EDITORIALS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); COSCIA, ANTHONY R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



300 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: SectionB; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: State Issues Bonds for Port Newark Project 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: PORT NEWARK, N.J., March 7 

 BODY:
Stressing New Jersey's commitment to producing jobs, Gov. James E. McGreevey said today that the state had issued $125 million in bonds to help a company that handles containerized cargo modernize and expand its operations here.
 Standing amid the bustle of gigantic cranes that run on tracks alongside the shipping berths that line Newark Channel, Governor McGreevey said that the state's investment in the company, Port Newark Container Terminal, would create 500 new port jobs and 3,200 construction jobs. Part of the expansion includes cleaning up an adjacent 15-acre site that was once a scrap metal yard. It will be paved with asphalt and used to store thousands of containers. 
 The governor called the cleanup and redevelopment a "brownfields project," a term usually applied to old industrial sites that are cleaned of hazardous wastes and then reused. While the contamination at the Port Newark site is not toxic or hazardous, he said, the state role in the project is an example of his antisprawl and smart-growth policies.
"Between the revitalized cargo terminal and the brownfields redevelopment of a former scrapyard, this is a great example of devoting energy and vision to promoting development and redevelopment in the right places," Mr. McGreevey said.
The bonds that are financing the cleanup and expansion will also pay for converting cargo handling equipment to electric power from air-polluting diesel engines. The New Jersey Economic Development Authority issued the bonds last week. The authority's executive director, Caren S. Franzini, said that the tax-exempt bonds, which are of varying terms, carried an estimated interest rate of 1.5 percent, and that the repayment would be borne by the company.
Ms. Franzini said that the brownfields project aimed to "put time, effort and resources back into rebuilding existing infrastructure rather than putting time, effort and even more resources into undeveloped green areas" in the state.
Port Newark Container Terminal was created in 2000 and moved to the site after the previous occupants, Maersk Sealand, moved to larger quarters at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal. Port Newark Container Terminal's president, Chris Lytle, praised the McGreevey administration for the investment, because, he said, it treats the port area, where space is at a premium, as a valuable economic engine for the region. He said that the expansion alone would allow the company to handle an additional 100,000 cargo containers a year at the site. 
Union leaders, among them the president of Local 1235 of the International Longshoremen's Association, Albert Cernadas, also praised the investment, although some union members, more used to the older diesel-powered lift cranes, said privately that some kinks still had to be worked out of the newer electric models, which break down frequently. But they added that those problems would be solved with time.
Mr. McGreevey said that in an effort to streamline future brownfields projects involving state funds, he was asking the Legislature to approve a reorganization plan that would give the Economic Development Authority responsibility for the financing roles of three other state agencies.
Ms. Franzini explained that such approval would "make it easier for a company like this which is seeking to expand to borrow." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); MATERIALS HANDLING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) PORTS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STEVEDORING; LABOR; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT NEWARK CONTAINER TERMINAL (CO) 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



301 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: More Students Line Up At Financial Aid Office 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER and JENNIFER MEDINA 

 BODY:
Appealing to the financial aid office is an annual ritual for Christy Kull, a senior at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Tell all and plead desperately has always been her motto and, somehow, things seemed to work out fine.
 So when her father lost his job as a computer engineer last June, she took a deep breath and stepped up the groveling. Her financial aid package of $5,000 did go up, by $1,000, but it was not enough. She dropped out and started working full time. 
 "It's not like there is a real option," said Ms. Kull, whose bill for tuition and living costs totals $15,000 a year, before financial aid. "The entire security blanket is just pulled right out from under you." 
As the economic slump wears on, universities are awash in financial aid requests that dwarf those of earlier years, often from students who never thought of asking for help before and now find themselves scrambling for ways to stay in school. 
Deadlines have not even passed on many campuses, yet financial aid requests have already risen by 50 percent at Skidmore College, in upstate New York, 39 percent at the University of Michigan, more than 30 percent at Bowdoin College, in Brunswick, Me., 30 percent at Willamette University in Salem, Ore., 20 percent at Occidental College, in Los Angeles, 15 percent at State University of New York at Albany and 14 percent at Barnard College, in Manhattan -- all compared with last year, itself a particularly bad one. 
"It's stunning," said Suzanne Guard, Barnard's financial director. "It seems that every fifth or sixth one says, 'I'm scheduled to be laid off, I've been laid off, I've been out of work for a year, I'm still looking.' The difference this year is so obvious to us."
Even those who receive aid are coming back at midyear for more because their families' fortunes unexpectedly took a turn for the worse.
Such appeals have doubled at Pomona College, in Claremont, Calif., doubled at Kenyon College, in Gambier, Ohio, almost tripled at Claremont McKenna College, in Claremont, Calif., risen 20 percent at the University of California at Berkeley, and increased fivefold at Smith College, in Northampton, Mass., stretching some financial aid budgets to the breaking point. 
"We can't afford to meet all of our students' needs. We try, but it's impossible," said Ellen Frishberg, director of financial aid at Johns Hopkins University, where the average aid package increased to $22,000 from $20,000 this year. "The hardest part of my job is to say no, but you have to disappoint some people."
Parents who once banked on steady six-figure incomes have lost jobs. Savings have been exhausted and once-fat stock portfolios have been flattened, leaving little to pay for college. At Amherst College, in Massachusetts, for example, appeals are more common than ever and aid packages are up to $7,000 higher than they were just last semester.
The deluge of aid requests comes at a particularly trying time, because just as families have fallen on harder times, universities have, too. 
College endowments fell an average of 6 percent in 2002, the steepest drop since 1974, the National Association of College and University Business Officers says. Beyond that, 26 states cut their higher education budgets for the current fiscal year, and just as many are expected to do the same in the coming one.
"This is a bad time for everyone," said Stephen Joyce, director of financial aid at Bowdoin. "There is far more need than we can meet. Has it always been that way? Yes. But now they need more and we have less."
The confluence of factors has made for tough choices. While many universities say they have the financial wherewithal to shoulder more requests, others feel certain some students will be left wanting. 
The University of Michigan, for example, expects at least 11,000 applications for aid but can offer grants to 6,000 applicants. Because the situation is unusually dire this year, the university has begun tracking the number of students who are sitting out half the year. It knows of 80. Hundreds more have managed to stay in school despite getting only one semester's worth of assistance.
"I'm not sure how they do it," said Pamela W. Fowler, Michigan's director of financial aid. 
Frustration and anxiety seem to be the only certainties for college students like William D. Tressel Jr., a junior at Michigan State University. If current problems persist, Mr. Tressel says, many of his friends will work rather than attend school. 
"They say you need to go to college to do well, but you spend all the money you have, plus you are going out and borrowing more money for something you won't see for a while," he said. "And graduates still aren't getting jobs. What if you are doing all of this and it will all be worthless?"
Some private colleges are willing to do whatever it takes to retain their students. At Smith College, officials plan to cut its staff to increase the financial aid budget by 17 percent, a level they view as impossible to sustain if the economic hardships persist much longer. 
"That's an incredibly difficult increase, and we will have to do personnel cuts," said Carol Christ, Smith's president. "To put it in its starkest terms, Do you do layoffs to preserve financial aid? It's a trade-off." 
Making matters worse, educators add, every state raised tuition and fees for public universities in 2002, some by 20 percent or more, as noted in a study this month by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education. Now states that had some of the smallest increases last year, like California and New York, are considering bigger jumps.
Over the last 20 years, tuition and fees at private and public universities have more than doubled, even with inflation taken into account. The average tuition at state-supported colleges is $4,081, while the average at private institutions is $18,273.
Worried that students are already hard-pressed to cover tuition, some universities are leaning on their senators and representatives to provide federal relief. With a coalition of 49 national education associations, they are urging Congress to double the federal Pell Grant, a scholarship aimed at low-income students. 
Still, that may do little to help students who are seeking aid for the first time. Many of them come from families with incomes of $80,000 to $120,000 before their fortunes turned, but may still be considered too well off to qualify for some grants. 
Steve Dripps, a sophomore at Georgia Institute for Technology, thought that after his father lost a job as a telecommunications engineer last March he would be able to muddle through with sizable grants from the government, his school or both. When nothing came through, he dropped his classes and started working full time, but swears he will only do so for one semester.
That was better than taking out huge undergraduate loans, he said, because he already plans to take on considerable debt for graduate school. "While I am definitely not someone who comes from a family who is impoverished, the current economy has put a strain on my family," Mr. Dripps said.
What the universities say they are seeing closely parallels national economic trends. From November through January of this year, a smaller percentage of the population worked than at any time since 1994 -- it was 62.4 percent in February. Furthermore, the number of people who have been unemployed for six months or more is at the highest level in a decade, and nearly three times what it was just two years ago.
"Many of our families are feeling the second year of this downturn," said Roberta C. Johnson, associate director of financial aid at Berkeley. "Their savings are depleted, some have had to sell their homes, and in many cases we're seeing unemployment benefits, while nominal to begin with, are starting to run out."
Students who never thought about nickel-and-dime savings are now learning to adopt the same measures that more money-conscious students have long used: axing long distance calls, writing on both sides of notebook paper, and surviving on Ramen noodles and macaroni and cheese.
With economic forecasts dreary and college loans soaring, some administrators fear that students will be reluctant to choose high-priced private schools. Even worse, they say, some may forgo college in hope of making more money by working. 
"We kept waiting to expect the worst last year, but this is just the beginning," said Maureen Levy, dean of financial aid at Occidental. "If this is just a one-year or short-term thing, it's fine. But if this keeps going, it's unclear what we'll be able to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Dripps, a sophomore at Georgia Institute for Technology, drop classes to work full time. (Tami Chappell for The New York Times); Christy Kull, 22, a senior at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, dropped out to work full time to pay for returning to school. (Joe Mahoney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STUDENT LOANS; FINANCES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; MEDINA, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



302 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Workers' Plight Brings New Militancy in China 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: JIAMUSI, China 

 BODY:
This remote industrial outpost, a stone's throw from Siberia and snowbound for months at a time, usually hibernates for winter. But not this year. Since last fall, tens of thousands of disgruntled workers in this former workers' paradise have defiantly staged a series of protests.
 On some days, retirees blocked all traffic on the main highway into town, squatting in rows on the pavement. On other days, thousands of laid-off textile workers sat on railway tracks, disrupting service. In late December, workers from an ailing pulp mill lay like frozen soldiers on Jiamusi's only runway, preventing planes from landing. 
 Today, workers once again took to the streets of Jiamusi, blocking the train track for 20 minutes until the police forced them away and then marching through the city in protest, according to China Labor Watch, a group based in the United States. 
Jiamusi's failing state-owned factories have laid off huge numbers of workers in the last five years, leaving families with nothing to live on. Eighty percent of people in their 40's are out of work, residents say, receiving at best about $20 a month from the government. Retirees have no way to pay medical expenses.
"We Chinese workers are honest and humble -- we protest only because we have no choice," said one worker who witnessed the protests and would give only his surname, Li. "We've lost our iron rice bowl" -- a secure livelihood -- "but how can we survive without even the most basic help?"
Vice President Hu Jintao, who became Communist Party chief last fall and is expected to be named president at the National People's Congress meeting in Beijing, has said his government will give urgent attention to his country's "disadvantaged groups," particularly farmers and laid-off workers. 
In Jiamusi, the depth of disadvantage is evident -- as is the restiveness that has led to the wildfire spread of protest all across China and is forcing the government to act. 
China's elites "face growing pressure and resistance -- strikes, collective petitions, explosions and acts of violence," said Kang Xiaoguang, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. "All this public discontent threatens security and stability and may force concessions."
Although the protests are technically illegal, the workers' grievances are often viewed as legitimate and their plight evokes enormous public sympathy. In 2001, the number of appeals and protests to government offices grew 7.2 percent and the number of participants by 11.7 percent, wrote Du Gangjian, a researcher, in The Economic Observer, a leading newspaper. 
Chinese police journals are now filled with advice about "managing" rather than "crushing" protests, allowing peaceful demonstrations to proceed and detaining only the ringleaders afterward. Likewise, local officials now tend to meet with protesters, acceding to at least some of their monetary demands.
"As the market economy has developed, mass incidents are constantly occurring and they are characterized by high levels of organization, dramatic impact and major disturbances of society," wrote Liu Wie, a police official, in the magazine Public Security Research last year.
But he added that the police and government had to respond to the crises with "utmost care" because "if we lose the support of the masses, even if their measures do hold things down for a while, they will rebound and do even more damage."
In the short term, the conciliatory tactics tend to ease the unrest, even though payments are generally far less than the workers are owed. But they have also created new expectations among China's masses and are slowly altering the previously one-way social contract between an authoritarian leadership and its nonvoting population.
"If they contain and manage, rather than deter, they could create a dicey situation for the government," said Murray Scot Tanner, a political scientist at Western Michigan University. "Choosing this route, I wonder if the government can avoid getting drawn into some negotiation with society over larger issues, concerning politics and power." 
The workers of Jiamusi turned to protest only after realizing that lesser measures were getting them nowhere. There is a credo well known to laid-off workers these days: "A small disturbance leads to a small solution, a large disturbance leads to a big solution. No disturbance leads to no solution." Often, the only brake on demonstrators is the knowledge that police tolerance has its limits.
Jiamusi is a depressed and depressing place: laid-off workers in ragged coats shiver in freezing temperatures, tending plastic buckets containing a icy fish for sale. Factory apartments have water for only an hour a day. In some families, three generations are unemployed.
There was never much work here except that provided by state factories, part of China's planned economy. So entire families were left without jobs when these economic dinosaurs began to fail in the transition to a market-based system.
The situation was particularly glaring at the Jiamusi Textile Factory, which once employed 14,000 workers. "Before everyone wanted to work there because conditions were so good -- housing, health care, pensions," said a worker named Liu. "I, my wife and four brothers all worked there, too."
The workers never dreamed that the mill was bankrupt when it suddenly shut production in 1998, offering to pay each employee the equivalent of about $20 a month in living expenses. Factory officials kept workers in the dark, selling off the factory's assets to pay its debts.
Two years later the payments stopped altogether. But the workers were not informed of the factory's bankruptcy until last May, when official termination notices were issued.
In response, workers' representatives traveled to the provincial capital, Harbin, and later to Beijing, demanding the pay and benefits to which they were entitled by law. In Beijing, they presented government officials with petitions containing hundreds of signatures. Then they went home and waited.
"The fundamental problem in Jiamusi is that there is no market and there are no opportunities," said Mr. Liu, who said 70 percent of the factories were bankrupt and the remaining 30 percent were failing.
He said he generally supported the economic reforms, but added that they had come at a cost: "The gap between rich and poor is growing. And the poor need a little help."
By November, with temperatures well below zero, thousands of workers from the textile factory began a series of increasingly well organized protests. Though the police occasionally arrested an organizer, others emerged. The authorities acknowledge that they were up against new and potent social forces.
"In recent years, the degree of organization of mass incidents has intensified;the period of inception is quite long, and there are abundant preparations made," wrote Li Shenxue, an official in Jilin Province, in People's Petitions and Appeals, a government magazine. "There are even budding tendencies toward the formation of spontaneously organized 'trade unions,' and 'associations' and other 'unapproved organizations for defending rights.' "
In late November, textile workers sat on the train tracks for more than an hour after the police stopped them from boarding a train bound for Beijing. City officials met with them in a station lounge. But when talk yielded no action, the workers returned -- this time with reinforcements. On Dec. 2, they marched through the city and staged a sit-in on the tracks that lasted from morning until night.
The police, many of whom had relatives at the factory, did little to disperse them. Restaurants near the station welcomed protesters, providing them with meals and tea.
During the next week, there were three straight days of meetings at the local movie theater, where officials sought to placate the workers. On Dec. 5, they were offered about $15 a month for living expenses -- a triumph of sorts, but not as much as they were owed under their contract.
Inspired by that success, laid-off workers from a nearby pulp mill, which once employed 8,000, descended on the airport and lay down in the snowy runway, preventing planes from landing. Now, each worker at the mill is getting about $30 a month for living expenses, more than the textile workers because the pulp mill has a bit more money.
Already the workers from the textile factory are grumbling that the city has not given them enough. "You can't live on $15 a month," said Mr. Liu. "Our basic problem hasn't been solved."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unemployed workers in Jiamusi, where failing state-owned factories have laid off huge numbers of workers, leaving families with nothing to live on. Eighty percent of people in their 40's are out of work, residents say. (The New York Times) Map of China highlighting Jiamusi: Tens of thousands of workers have held protests in Jiamusi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (75%); RIOTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PETITIONS (72%); TEXTILES (71%); POLITICS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PULP MILLS (55%); PULP INDUSTRY (55%) LABOR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (53%) ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) JIAMUSI (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



303 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: 2 Choruses Out of Sync 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
For the moment, the two camps in the Broadway strike over orchestra minimums are claiming absolute solidarity -- the musicians, actors and stagehands say they stand together and stand firm; the producers and theater owners say they are united as never before and are holding fast.
 But within these alliances are the seeds of dissension, which could grow if the strike continues. 
 On the musicians' side, both the actors and the stagehands have publicly said that they are opposed to crossing a picket line. But until Friday evening, the producers had counted on the stagehands' support. They say they received assurances from the president of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Thomas C. Short, that the stagehands would cross the picket lines. 
The producers had also been encouraged by the fact that it was the stagehands who moved virtual orchestra equipment into the theaters last week so shows could rehearse in case they had to go on without musicians. 
Instead, the board of Local 1, a division of the stagehands' union, voted at 5 p.m. Friday to support the strike -- just before the actors did the same. In doing so, the stagehands broke ranks with their president and blindsided the producers. "The executive board has chosen to make a decision that's beneficial to our members," said James Claffey, business manager of Local 1.
It is unclear which group, actors or stagehands, decided first to respect the picket lines. In any case, each union seems to have been emboldened by the other, though there are also divisions among the actors, whose decision to honor the picket line was also made by their representatives. Although most believe in the principle of supporting a fellow union member, these are tough economic times, and many of them live paycheck to paycheck.
Among both actors and stagehands, some were frustrated that while they were walking the picket lines, the musicians failed to return to the negotiating table all weekend.
Several actors also say that, in part, they felt compelled to support the musicians out of self-interest; they have a labor negotiation coming up in June 2004 and may need the musicians to back them.
The musicians said that they could count on it. "Absolutely we will," said Bill Dennison, assistant to the president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. 
As for the other side in the strike, some people in the Broadway industry suggested yesterday that the current negotiation represented a shift in power away from the theater owners -- the Shuberts, the Nederlanders, Jujamcyn Theaters -- toward individual producers.
In the past, theater owners -- namely the Shuberts -- took a leading role in labor disputes. The theater owners, this thinking goes, have less of an interest in holding out on the musicians. Although they, too, invest in shows, they are originating projects less often than they used to and mostly want musicals up and running again because their earnings are based on a percentage of the gross, not on a production's net profit.
"The theater owners are not the product suppliers anymore and it's the producers who bear the expense," said Scott Zeiger, chief executive of the North American Theatrical division of Clear Channel Communications, which produces on Broadway and on the road. 
The economics have become increasingly tough. About 30 years ago, Mr. Zeiger said, a musical cost around $1.5 million to produce and made its money back more easily. Now that price tag is up to $10 million to $12 million, and 8 out of 10 shows never earn back their investment. 
"In the old days, shows could run for six months and recoup," he said. "I ran 'Jekyll and Hyde' for four years and I didn't recoup." 
Mr. Zeiger is a theater owner as well as a producer; Clear Channel owns the Ford Center for the Performing Arts, the current home of the musical "42nd Street," and several other theaters around the country. But he said the two interests could easily diverge on the matter of a strike. "It's logical that a theater owner would cave because they would want our tenants to be playing because we get rent," he said. "So if you have to pay a couple of extra musicians, who cares? Ultimately it doesn't matter to the theater owner -- they just want their rent."
But other producers say theater owners have more of a stake than ever in limiting minimums to keep costs down.
In any case, the cast of characters has certainly changed. In earlier negotiations, Bernard B. Jacobs of the Shubert Organization was a central player in these kinds of disputes, a role Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of Shubert, has taken up since the death of Mr. Jacobs in 1996. But this time, Mr. Schoenfeld has rarely been at the negotiating table, most recently Thursday night in an 11th-hour attempt one producer referred to as "Solomonic." 
Mr. Schoenfeld was traveling yesterday and Shubert officials said he could not be reached.
Although the producers maintain that they remain solidly united, a few have questioned some of their team's tactics, namely having started the negotiations with a call for eliminating minimums entirely. This gave musicians the opening to accuse producers of being nothing more than craven executives who seek to do away with live orchestras -- an accusation that the musicians have widely publicized. "I never would have started at zero," said a producer who spoke on the condition of anonymity..
Some producers have questioned why city officials have not played a larger role in the negotiations, suggesting that more involvement from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg could have forced the two sides back to the table over the weekend.
Asked about the strike yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg suggested there was little he could do. "I'll do anything I can to get the two of them together," he said. "But it's not like we can give a subsidy or tax breaks or anything like that. All we can do is hope that they both find something that's agreeable to both of them."
As for the main issue at stake -- the minimum number of musicians that should be required in an orchestra pit -- some producers say that full orchestras represent a thing of the past, that composers like Elton John ("Aida"), Marc Shaiman ("Hairspray") and Abba ("Mamma Mia!") are no longer writing classic scores that require full orchestras. 
The exception is Mel Brooks, who composed "The Producers," said Mr. Zeiger, one of that show's producers. "He wanted a full, orchestral, old-fashioned sound," Mr. Zeiger said. "Old-fashioned is the operative word."
But Jonathan Tunick, who orchestrated most of Stephen Sondheim's shows, suggested that composers always want more musicians than producers will allow.
"Steve hasn't had a full orchestra for one of his shows since 'Sweeney Todd,' " Mr. Tunick said, speaking of Mr. Sondheim's 1979 musical about a murderous barber, which included 26 musicians. "He's expressed to me that he would have liked larger orchestras."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Filling the Pits"For most Broadway theaters, a contract between musicians and producers dictates the minimum number of musicians required in each orchestra pit depending on the history and size of the theater. Broadway, Majestic: 26Palace, Lunt-Fontanne: 25Gershwin, Imperial, Marquis, Minskoff, Richard Rodgers, St. James, Shubert, Winter Garden: 24Neil Simon: 20Virginia; Martin Beck: 16Broadhurst: 15Barrymore, Brooks Atkinson, Music Box, Eugene ONeill, Plymouth, Royale: 9Longacre, Nederlander: 5Ambassador, Belasco, Biltmore, Booth, Circle in the Square, Cort, Golden, Walter Kerr, Lyceum: 3 (Source: Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%) THEATER; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (84%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



304 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/TECHNOLOGY; 
Plugged-In Finns

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

 BODY:
The United States slipped to second place, from first last year, in a recent global survey that ranks 82 countries by their perceived ability to benefit from information and communication technology.
 Finland, which ranked third last year, has grabbed the top spot in the second annual Global Information Technology Report, prepared by the World Economic Forum, the World Bank and the French business school known as Insead. 
The survey assesses network readiness by looking at 64 criteria that include individual and commercial use of the Internet, as well as regulations and infrastructure. 
 While the United States continued to rank high for its commercial use of information technology, the survey found that among consumers and government users, the nation has fallen behind Finland and other countries including South Korea, Japan and Sweden.
 Singapore rose to third place in the overall rankings, and Ireland to fifth place. Sweden was the only country in the top 10 to keep the same rank, at No. 4. Canada vaulted to No. 6 from No. 12 last year.
 Developing countries made progress in closing the network gap, the authors said. Among African countries, Tunisia and Botswana were the highest ranked, at 34th and 44th. ELIZABETH OLSON

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The weekly "Drilling Down" chart in Business Day on Monday, about a survey by the World Economic Forum that ranks 82 countries by their perceived ability to benefit from information and communication technology, misstated the fifth-place country at one point. It was Iceland; Ireland was No. 21.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nokia's headquarters in Espoo, in Finland's technology region. (Jaakko Avikainen/Lehtikuva) Chart: "Top countries for network readiness in 2002-2003"RANK -- 1COUNTRY: FinlandSCORE: 5.92'01-'02 RANK: 3 RANK -- 2COUNTRY: United StatesSCORE: 5.79'01-'02 RANK: 1 RANK -- 3COUNTRY: SingaporeSCORE: 5.74'01-'02 RANK: 8 RANK -- 4COUNTRY: SwedenSCORE: 5.58'01-'02 RANK: 4 RANK -- 5COUNTRY: IcelandSCORE: 5.51'01-'02 RANK: 2 RANK -- 6COUNTRY: CanadaSCORE: 5.44'01-'02 RANK: 12 RANK -- 7COUNTRY: BritainSCORE: 5.35'01-'02 RANK: 10 RANK -- 8COUNTRY: DenmarkSCORE: 5.33'01-'02 RANK: 7 RANK -- 9COUNTRY: TaiwanSCORE: 5.31'01-'02 RANK: 15 RANK -- 10COUNTRY: GermanySCORE: 5.29'01-'02 RANK: 17 (Source: World Economic Forum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (91%); RANKINGS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); BOTSWANA (73%) FINLAND; 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



305 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

U.S. Works to Gain 9 Votes for Iraq Measure
After a weekend of diplomacy, the Bush administration fell short of lining up nine votes on the United Nations Security Council in favor of a resolution that would threaten war if Iraq does not disarm. A1

Iraq indicated that it would continue pursuing twin tracks in the face of a looming war -- taking steps to buttress the case of nations opposed to attacking the country while simultaneously preparing for battle. A9

The Bush administration has asked more than 60 countries to find and expel several hundred Iraqi diplomats that the Central Intelligence Agency and others have identified as intelligence agents senior administration officials have said. A1

The leader of Turkey's governing party, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, won a seat in Parliament, setting the stage for his ascension to the prime minister's office and a reconsideration of a measure that would allow American troops to use Turkey as a base. A10

Argentina Indicts Iranians
An Argentine judge ordered arrest warrants for four Iranian government officials who he says helped carry out the 1994 bombing of a Jewish community center in Buenos Aires that left 85 people dead. A3

North Korea Fires Missile
North Korea fired a surface-to-ship missile, according to American and Japanese officials, in a modest escalation of the country's challenges to the United States and its allies. The launch had been expected, after North Korea issued a warning to mariners to stay clear of its coast. A14

Labor Protests in China
Failing state-owned factories in Jiamusi, a remote industrial outpost in China, have laid off huge numbers of workers in the last five years. Workers have been staging protests. A8

Malta Votes on Union
Malta voted to join the European Union in a referendum watched closely in Europe. A3

NATIONAL A15-17

A Revised Account Of Shuttle's Last Minutes
The shuttle Columbia was already spinning out of control, its left wing and left maneuvering jets damaged or destroyed, in the last two seconds of data transmission, two officials close to the investigation said, citing a new analysis by NASA. A1

In Texas, a Debate Over War
Views of war with Iraq run the gamut of national opinion in the heart of Bush country. For every unswerving proponent of war, there are foes and equivocators. In terms of both their faith and their oil-dependent pocketbooks, Texans can see as much to lose as to gain from war. A12

Hard Times for Cleveland Clinic
The Cleveland Clinic, a jewel of the American health care system, is struggling to hang onto its past glories. Nearly $500 million, almost a third of the financial assets it once had, has vanished because of aggressive investments in a handful of technology stocks that fizzled. A15

Great Lakes Freeze
An unusually cold late winter has left 90 percent of Lakes Superior, Huron and Erie, an area larger than the state of New York, covered with ice, a condition that officials say could threaten the start of the shipping season. A15

New Terrain for Democrats
Democratic presidential candidates in Iowa got a taste of the complicated new world that presumably awaits them this spring: a world of trying to campaign for president at a time of war, or near-war. A16

EDUCATION

Surge in School Aid Seekers
As the economic slump wears on, universities are awash in financial aid requests that dwarf those of earlier years, often from students who never thought of asking for help before and now find themselves scrambling for ways to stay in school. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Broadway Musicians' Strike Claims Its First Casualty
The producers of "Flower Drum Song," the revival of the classic musical, announced they would close the production barring a quick resolution to the Broadway musicians' strike that began on Friday. B4

Violence Erupts at Arcade
A man pulled a gun and sprayed bullets at a crowd in a popular Times Square video game arcade. Another man pulled a knife and stabbed two people. Ten people were injured, two critically, in the attacks. B1

Anatomy of a Work Stoppage
A series of e-mail messages between doctors and protesters offers a glimpse into the strategies and sentiments that drove the five-day New Jersey doctors' work stoppage last month that aimed to protest rising malpractice insurance rates. B1

FASHION B8-9

OBITUARIES B7

ARTS E1-10

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

St. Bonaventure Reacts
The St. Bonaventure Board of Trustees requested and received the resignation of the university's president, appointed interim leadership, placed three others in the athletic department on administrative leave, and named an independent counsel to investigate in response to a men's basketball recruiting scandal. D1

David Wells to Be Fined
The Yankees are expected to fine David Wells $100,000 for the remarks he made in his new book, according to a person who was told about the negotiations between Wells and the team. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Homestore Suit Is Dismissed
A federal judge in Los Angeles has dismissed claims against Cendant and AOL Time Warner in a shareholders' lawsuit over losses at the Internet real estate company Home-store, the companies said. C2

Advertisers Bracing for War
The prospect of war is casting a shadow over Madison Avenue as worried advertisers postpone media-buying decisions. That threatens to derail the industry's nascent recovery after one of its most difficult periods since the Depression. C1

Military Communications Shift
Many of the information technologies used by the armed forces have their origins in commercial rather than military initiatives -- a shift from the way the American military traditionally developed the communications used to wage war. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Cautionary notes from Alaska; censoring the Internet; a good pick in New Jersey; Serge Schmemann on Stalin, 50 years after his death.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather B10
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (69%); ARREST WARRANTS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); SPACE SHUTTLE (61%); ARRESTS (52%); JUDGES (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%); CHINA (92%); MALTA (90%); JAPAN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



306 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: U.S. BASES; 
Guam, Hurt by Slump, Hopes for Economic Help From Military

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: HAGATNA, Guam 

 BODY:
"Proud to be Americans: Military Personnel Welcomed" beckoned a red, white and blue newspaper advertisement here. 
 The advertisement, for automobile insurance, was aimed at the 9,200 military personnel based here, but it summed up the open-arms welcome to soldiers and sailors by this longtime garrison island, the westernmost American projection to Asia's edge. 
 "More military would mean more jobs," Joe Deeso, an unemployed 19-year-old, said as he drove past the chain-link fence of Andersen Air Force Base to Micronesia Mall, a turquoise-colored temple of American consumerism. As Mr. Deeso passed houses and hotels damaged in December in a supertyphoon, an island radio station announced that "GovGuam" was laying off hundreds of government workers, and cutting pay to 4,600 more. 
Last December, when all of South Korea seemed to be in the streets protesting the accidental deaths of two teenage girls killed by an American military vehicle, Guam's leaders pointed out that this island, the largest between Hawaii and the Philippines, had plenty of unused military land for building bases. 
In January, when Japanese politicians greeted plans for American warplane training with "not in my backyard" arguments, Guam authorities said in effect, Come on down here, just a three-hour flight from Tokyo.
And in February, people in Guam welcomed the news that the Pentagon was going to send 12 B-52 bombers and 12 B-1 bombers here. Most of the bombers have arrived.
"While many communities may shun having the military in their backyards, we on Guam welcome them, embrace them," said Felix P. Camacho, the newly elected governor of this American territory of 150,000 residents.
"Guam can play an increased role in taking up the slack," said Mr. Camacho, a Republican. Fresh from visiting Navy and Air Force commanders here and openly bidding for American military units now based in Japan and South Korea, the governor predicted, "As they downsize in those regions, Guam will benefit."
The island's welcome is an about-face from the resentment a decade ago. Although protests never grew as strong as the movement that helped end in early February the United States Navy's use of a bombing range in Vieques, P.R., the dissatisfaction here was symbolized by a much publicized photograph of an activist who climbed the fence of the naval air station and spat in the face of a sentry.
Emboldened by a rising tide of tourists and hotel construction, protesters called for cutbacks in American troops here and the transfer of land from the military, which controls almost one-third of Guam's 209 square miles. During the military cuts of the mid-1990's, several units left the island.
Today's new appreciation of the military is spurred by a soured love affair with tourism from Japan.
For the Pentagon, Guam's new attitude comes as the Bush administration reviews American troop levels in Northeast Asia.
"From where we were five, six, seven years ago to where we are today, it's almost a 180-degree swap-out with how we view Guam and its strategic importance to the United States," Gen. Richard B. Myers of the Air Force, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told a House Armed Services Committee hearing in Washington on Feb. 5.
At the hearing, Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, defended the deployment of long-range bombers here as a check against North Korea's nuclear and missile ambitions.
A week later, at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Mr. Rumsfeld said that some of the 37,000 American troops in South Korea should leave the peninsula "and be more oriented toward an air hub and a sea hub." On March 6 in Washington, he hinted that some units in Korea might move to "a neighboring area." 
To listen to some people here, the air and sea hub would be Guam, where no permission of a foreign power is needed to carry out combat missions from local bases.
For an air hub, Andersen offers two nearly two-mile air strips that send jets screaming off cliffs and over empty ocean where no one complains about noise. Sometimes called "the gas station of the Pacific," Andersen routinely fuels dozens of planes and houses hundreds of crews on short notice.
"Andersen is prepared, poised and ready for any kind of exercise or contingency wartime situation," said Col. Joseph F. Mudd, the local wing commander. The base's past missions include sending hundreds of B-52's on bombing runs over North Vietnam in the early 1970's and processing thousands of Vietnamese boat people after the collapse of South Vietnam in 1975.
For a sea hub, the Navy has a protected deepwater harbor, five sealift ships, large storehouses, access to a newly privatized repair drydock, and the only live-fire bombing range in the Western Pacific, a 200-acre coral island, 150 miles northeast of here. In fall 2002, two Los Angeles class submarines were stationed here, the first nuclear-powered attack submarines to be given home ports outside the continental United States. In 2003, a third submarine is to follow, according to Rear Adm. Patrick W. Dunne, the navy commander here.
Submarine support facilities are part of construction projects totaling the nearly $500 million that the Navy and Air Force are quietly investing this year in bases here.
"Guam has an English-speaking, fast-food and shopping-mall culture familiar to U.S. military personnel," Carl Peterson, then chairman of the Guam Chamber of Commerce, wrote last May in a "white paper" intended to lure more military investment.
At one mall, Guam Premier Outlets, this feeling was echoed in interviews.
"Each new sub brings 60 new families," said Richard Thompson, a car dealership loan officer, near a swirl of shoppers. "We are very military friendly here. Having military folks on Guam is a very positive thing."
When protests against the military did occur on Guam, the island was riding a giddy real estate boom, surfing on growing waves of Japanese tourists. But, while hotel rooms tripled in the 1990's, to about 9,000 today, Japanese arrivals stalled, forcing hotel occupancies down to 55 percent in 2002. Touched by Japan's economic stagnation, tourist arrivals here decreased to about a million in 2002, one-quarter below 2000 figures.
"When tourism was so great, Guam people didn't have to consider the contribution the military was making," said Bartley A. Jackson, director of the Pacific Islands Club, the largest hotel here.
But Madeleine Z. Bordallo, Guam's nonvoting representative in Congress, said, "Whatever thoughts we had about the military years ago, those attitudes have changed. 
"We have learned that we may not able to ride on tourism alone, we need something else," Ms. Bordallo said. "We are very anxiously looking forward to an increase of military activity on Guam."
Attitudes here are music to the ears of American military planners, accustomed to a steady litany of complaints from local officials in Japan and South Korea.
"I just had the Guam Legislature in here yesterday," Colonel Mudd said as cargo planes refueled outside his office window at Andersen. "It is amazing the show of support for the military here in Guam. I have never seen it in 25 years in the military."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A B-1 bomber arriving at Andersen Air Force Base in Guam last Thursday. Guam is welcoming any additional United States military presence. (Reuters) Chart/Map: "Not Just the Gulf: Other U.S. Operations"In addition to the deployment of troops in the Persian Gulf region, U.S. forces are involved in a number of other peacekeeping and counterterrorism operations around the world. The size of the circles reflects the size of the forces involved in each operation. DJIBOUTIA task force of 1,300 provides support for counterterrorismactivites in the Horn of Africa region. YEMENU.S. Special Operations forces trained 200 Yemeni soldiers in counterterrorism tactics last year. COLOMBIAAbout 70 soldiers are training Colombian troops to protect an oil pipeline. PHILIPPINESLast year, 1,300 troops conducted training exercises with the Philippine military. Plans to send 1,700 more troops fell apart late last month. AFGHANISTANBetween 8,000 and 9,000 troops continue to hunt Al Qaeda and train the Afghan Army. PERSIAN GULFThere are currently 230,000 U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf region in preparation for a possible attack on Iraq. SOUTH KOREAThere are 37,000 U.S. troops here, some stationed within a few miles of the demilitarized zone. BOSNIA AND KOSOVOAbout 7,000 U.S. troops are part of NATOs peacekeeping forces in Bosnia and Kosovo. GEORGIAApproximately 75 marines are training four Georgian battalions in counterterrorism. (Sources: Military officials, Globalsecurity.org) Map of Guam highlighting Hagatna: The military controls almost a third of Guam's 209 square miles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NAVIES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); TRENDS (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GUAM (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (92%); GULF STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); YEMEN (79%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) GUAM

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



307 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Today's War Is Against Tomorrow's Iraq 

BYLINE:  By Philip Bobbitt; Philip Bobbitt, a law professor at the University of Texas, is author of "The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace and the Course of History."

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
President Bush has again made his case for war against Iraq, and again his primary argument is the threat that Saddam Hussein poses to America. The president's critics are quick to point out that the Central Intelligence Agency and other experts feel that, for the moment, Saddam Hussein is unlikely to conduct terrorist attacks against America. However, they warn us, if an invasion threatens his regime, his agents or his extremist sympathizers might well attack us -- possibly even using weapons of mass destruction. 
 So is it really a good idea to press ahead with regime change? Aren't we better off now than we would be if we invade Iraq and risk setting off a dreadful response? 
 These are natural questions, but they are neither logical nor helpful. They are a prime example in our public discourse of what might be called "Parmenides' Fallacy" -- named after the Greek philosopher who held that all change was illusion. This fallacy occurs when one tries to assess a future state of affairs by measuring it against the present, as opposed to comparing it to other possible futures. Let me give a famous example of Parmenides' Fallacy in operation.
The turning point in the 1980 presidential race came in a debate when Ronald Reagan criticized President Jimmy Carter's record by asking the American people, "Are you better off today than you were four years ago?" 
While rhetorically devastating, this question is hardly the way to evaluate a presidency. After all, the state of the nation will never stay the same for four years, regardless of who is in office. A more relevant question to have asked would have been, "Are you better off now than you would have been if Gerald Ford had continued as president -- and if he had had to cope with rising oil prices, a revolution in Iran, a Russian invasion of Afghanistan and soaring interest rates?" 
Or, consider the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan. Are we better off now than we were the day before we intervened? Probably not. Before that war we knew where Al Qaeda had its bases and it had not struck since Sept. 11; a number of American and allied soldiers who became casualties were then alive and unwounded; public opinion in Pakistan was less hostile to America; there was a greater measure of sympathy around the world for our losses in New York and Washington; our economy and confidence in our markets were stronger. 
But let's ask the relevant question: Are we better off today than we would have been if we had let the Taliban continue arming and sheltering our Qaeda enemies, many of whom we killed and captured in our intervention? Clearly, we are vastly better off for having acted. 
So, as we look to the future, we must stop debating whether invading Iraq will result in our being worse down the line than we are right now. We do not have the option of holding time still -- which exposes the biggest flaw in the "Why Rush to War?" argument. The urgency lies in the fact that every day Saddam Hussein stays in power he grows richer, the global terrorist network to which he has access plans further atrocities and (international inspections notwithstanding) the chance of his acquiring nuclear, chemical and biological weapons grows. To avoid Parmenides' Fallacy, the question we must ask is: Will we be better off in the future if we invade Iraq or if we do not invade? 
Those who believe that the status quo can be indefinitely extended through inspections, then, have an obligation to tell us how the inspectors would prevent Saddam Hussein from buying a weapon from, say, North Korea -- which would be a rather dramatic change in the status quo. 
Supporters of an indefinite inspectors' presence focus on large weapons like missile launchers that they say we will be able to detect. (Although Secretary of State Colin Powell's masterful presentation to the Security Council last month, and our experience hunting for Scuds in the Persian Gulf war, lead one to question that assumption.) But are they also considering that in the future we might have to detect and capture weapons no larger than a case of beer? 
Whether they admit it or not, those who favor containment are asking for an ever more expensive United States armed presence in the region, as well as perpetual sanctions that crush innocent Iraqis even further. This is because without troops on his borders, Saddam Hussein would not admit inspectors, and without the sanctions he could quickly replace whatever outlawed weapons we are lucky enough to find and destroy. 
It is also misguided to believe that the threat of our overwhelming military force is enough to deter Saddam Hussein from aggression indefinitely. Were Iraq to get weapons of mass destruction, it would be able to deter us from interfering in any plans it had to broaden its control in the Persian Gulf region. Saddam Hussein's ambition to impose his will on his neighbors is the only reason he has resisted his obligations to the United Nations for 12 years, at great cost to Iraq. 
I recognize that we are running a terrible risk if we put Saddam Hussein's back against the wall. But unless we are willing to eventually grant him a free hand in the Persian Gulf, he is bound to act in a way that will put his back against the wall in the future -- after he does acquire nuclear weapons. At that point, however, the United States would have a significantly diminished capacity to prevent his aggression. One certainly cannot imagine an operation like Desert Storm if Iraq were to acquire nuclear warheads and accurate missiles.
We should also consider the future of the Iraqi civilians. Yes, they would suffer the horrors of war in the near term, which for a time would be even worse than life under the sanctions now. But if an American-led intervention succeeded, the country's oil revenues could once again enrich its people, as well as its schools, hospitals and financial institutions. 
The Iraqis would be much better off after an invasion than they would be living indefinitely chained to Saddam Hussein. For us, though we live in relative tranquillity at present, we will at least be far less badly off in the future if we act now. Parmenides' Fallacy must not paralyze our imaginations, or our will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PERSIAN GULF WAR; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JIMMY CARTER (59%) BOBBITT, PHILIP; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



308 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Malta Voters Narrowly Approve Joining European Union 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: ROME, March 9 

 BODY:
In a referendum watched closely and sometimes nervously throughout Europe, citizens of Malta have voted to join the European Union, according to results counted and announced by the Maltese government today.
 Those results showed that 53.65 percent of voters answered yes on a ballot that asked whether Malta should join, while 46.35 percent said no, a narrow division of opinion after years of debate on the tiny southern Mediterranean archipelago of nearly 400,000 people. 
 The referendum, held on Saturday, was a measure of public will and not binding on the Maltese government, which supports union membership. 
But it was the first referendum to be held in 9 of the 10 countries that have been invited to join the 15 current members of the union in its largest expansion ever.
For that reason, the vote held powerful interest for both supporters and opponents of the union's growth. Some diplomats and European affairs experts said the referendum's failure could have caused doubts about the virtues of joining the union among people in the countries still to vote.
European Union leaders greeted the results in Malta enthusiastically.
"This is a choice for stability and growth, as well as for the peaceful reunification of Europe and the European people," Romano Prodi, the European Commission president, said in a statement released in Brussels.
Mr. Prodi praised the results as a "historic choice which will have a lasting impact for the future of Malta."
The public debate over whether to join the union has arguably been more intense in Malta, a former British colony, than in the other countries expected to sign accession treaties in Athens next month and become union members next year.
That debate dominated political discourse in Malta in recent years and, as the referendum drew near, often received more news coverage than the possibility of war in Iraq. Rallies for and against union membership drew thousands of people.
The disagreement featured dueling predictions of whether joining the union would be a boon or a bust for the Maltese economy.
"It would lead to an erosion of competitiveness for our country," said Joseph Muscat, a senior official with the opposition Labor Party, which fervently opposes membership.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Muscat also said the structure of European Union government meant that a country like Malta "really doesn't have any type of voice."
But the governing Nationalist Party has campaigned vigorously for membership, and the debate became a pitched political battle between two warring sides that have swapped control of the government in Valletta, the capital, several times over the last decade.
Labor leaders said the referendum was not a clear endorsement of union membership, noting that voter turnout was about 90 percent and is often larger in Malta. The yes votes, they said, did not represent a majority of the country's eligible voters.
They called for general elections next month, before the signing of an accession treaty, in which voters' ballots for the two parties would provide another measure of their feelings about joining the union.
Although Malta would become the union's least populous member, Heather Grabbe, a research director for the Center for European Reform, an independent policy group in London, said its referendum was nonetheless meaningful.
Ms. Grabbe said the debate in Malta stirred concerns about membership that could fester -- and not only in Malta. She added that if the referendum in Malta had failed, it would have shown "that the argument for joining the union was not being well communicated."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of the Maltese Labor Party demonstrated yesterday, as leaders of the party, which opposes membership in the European Union, called for a general election for another test of voter sentiment. (Associated Press) Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Republic of Malta"MODERN HISTORY -- Britain took possession of the archipelago in 1814 and lost it in 1964, when Malta gained its independence. It became a republic in 1974. During World War II, Malta suffered devastating air raids by German and Italian forces, and the entire population was awarded the George Cross for bravery.POPULATION -- Just under 400,000, predominantly Roman Catholic.LANGUAGES -- Maltese and English; Italian is widely spoken.AREA -- 122 square miles, about twice the size of Washington, D.C.GOVERNMENT -- A 65-member House of Representatives elects the president, currently Guido de Marco, who appoints a prime minister, currently Eddie Fenech Adami of the Nationalist Party. Map of Malta: Malta was first to vote among nations looking to the union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); WORLD WAR II (62%); IRAQ WAR (62%) REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (69%) PRODI, ROMANO; BRUNI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) MALTA (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%) MALTA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



309 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE MOOD; 
Texans See as Much to Lose as to Gain From War

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ANDREWS, Tex., March 8 

 BODY:
As a welcome to a town with the red, white and blue walls of Buddy's drive-in diner, the slapped-up, steel-skinned service shops of long-ago booms and the horizon of grasshopper-like pumping jacks silently sucking up West Texas crude, the banner at the east end of Broadway is no mere salute to civic aspirations.
 As long as a tanker truck and newly painted to keep its sentiments fresh, it proclaims: "Andrews Loves God, Country & Supports Free Enterprise." 
 Andrews, population close to 10,000, lies 42 miles through mesquite-carpeted rangeland from Midland, President Bush's hometown. Patriotism, faith and freedom to make and lose a buck, touchstones of the Bush presidency, form the bedrock of everyday life in the towns of the Permian Basin, still the biggest source of American oil.
Yet in this heart of Bush country, views of war with Iraq run the gamut of national opinion. For every unswerving proponent of war, there is a foe or equivocator. People here want something done about Saddam Hussein, but many cast doubt on their favorite son's diplomacy, urgency and willingness to go it alone. In terms of both their faith and their oil-dependent pocketbooks, they can see as much to lose as to gain from war. 
"I feel like we will go to war, and I'll support it," said Jana Peters, 44, office manager at an oil exploration company. "I think that's the only way we can ensure our safety in my country. If Iraq doesn't want to comply with the United Nations, somebody's got to do it."
But Jonnie Miller, 56, a hardy, crew-cut preacher and owner of L & M Backhoe, which specializes in cleaning up spills in the oil fields, worries about war and a loss of lives. "The Scripture says God placed President Bush in office to take care of us," he said, "and my job is to pray for those in power to make godly decisions.
"But who over there," Mr. Miller asked, "wants us doing what we're doing except us and Kuwait? All life is precious to me. I don't want to see one Iraqi killed. I don't want to see Charles Manson killed."
To protesters who see a blood-for-oil impetus to war, people in Andrews say: Don't include us. West Texas oil production has been surging, but largely because of commitments in acquiring drilling rights and lining up rigs made one to four years ago, before much talk of war. "It's not like turning on a tap," said Bradley W. Bunn, 37, a proponent of war who this week completed his seventh well in just over a year.
As in much of the Southwest where towns bloomed by cashing in on their gold, silver, copper, potash and uranium, and then atrophied when the commodities ran down or cheaper foreign commodities dislodged them, West Texas towns of Permian Basin have been slowing down since the early 1970's. Some are ghosts.
Texas produced 364 billion barrels of oil last year, 250 billion fewer than in 1992 and 15 percent of the peak production in 1973. In 2000, according to the census, the median family income in Andrews County, population 13,000, was $37,017, down from $43,756 in 1980. The median home value dropped to $42,500 from $59,558.
This city's movie theater has closed. The Hillcrest Motel is shuttered, with a For Sale sign in front. Among the biggest shops left in town are discounters -- Alco, Dollar General and Family Dollar. 
Lately, however, resurgence is in the air. Oil prices have rebounded from as low as $10 a barrel in the 1980's here, to $20 a year ago to nearly $40 now. By late last month 169 rigs were drilling into the basin, 20 more than in January and 40 more than a year ago, said Morris Burns, executive vice president of the Permian Basin Petroleum Association in Midland. "That's a big increase," he said. 
In Andrews, flatbed 18-wheelers lugging drilling and casing pile rumble through town; want ads are looking for welders, electricians, roughnecks and roustabouts. Companies that reactivate long-silenced wells are busy. L & M Backhoe added two more roustabouts to its team of six last week. 
Economists attribute much of the rise to faster economic growth and to shrinking supplies of oil because of the oil industry strike in Venezuela and the cold winter. The markets' anticipation of war is contributing, too, they say. A shutdown of Iraqi oil fields or another Arab oil embargo could spur world prices and domestic American production.
But in Andrews, people say the more likely outcome is a short-lived spike in prices, like the one to nearly $40 a barrel as the last war in the Persian Gulf began, followed by the collapse to $20 as it ended. "We're all waiting for the hammer to fall -- the next downturn in prices," said Don Ingram, publisher of the twice-weekly Andrews County News. "Everyone assumes it will go down just like before."
At Buddy's, an unabashedly patriotic diner that has held on since 1969 largely on the local appeal of a fat-encrusted deep-fried specialty called steak fingers, a table of oil business retirees while away an hour.
"We've got to get rid of Saddam Hussein," said B. L. Tipton, 77.
But what the oil patch needs most, the men said, is relative price stability like the kind they knew until the mid-1980's. "War is disruptive," said Joseph Golden, 87. "You can't get stabilized."
Anxiety about war has touched Andrews High School. An article in the latest edition of the Round Up, the student newspaper, tells of two senior girls with boyfriends in the armed forces. "I am terrified," it quotes Sara Blodgett saying. "I think they could resolve this without war." 
Marcy Hubbard said, "I support a military move against Iraq, because it is better to get rid of him now so that our children and grandchildren won't have to do it." But she added, "If I could say one thing to President Bush and his military advisers, I would tell him to do what they can to protect our military personnel."
On a personal level, President Bush is widely admired in Andrews by many Democrats as much as he is by Republicans. At Buddy's, Elmer Feland, 72 and retired, voted against him and supports a war. "He still needs to be got out of there," he said of Mr. Bush. His wife, Betty, 65 and retired, said: "I agree with that. But he's likable. I like that he believes in God and prayer."
Like him or not, some people here find the president's style in promoting war grating and unstatesmanlike. "I think of Teddy Roosevelt walking softly and carrying a big stick," Mr. Ingram said. "I think that still holds around here."
Edward J. Phillips, 75, a barber, is a Democrat-turned-independent who voted for Mr. Bush. "I think he's a good man, but he needs to slow down on some of his talking" he said. "I wish he wouldn't make so many talks. You can say more in five seconds than you can straighten out in a lifetime."
Between haircuts, Mr. Phillips unfolded a map of the Middle East. Tallying up the population there, he warned of retaliation against the United States. "If all those countries banded together, we would have problems. There's a lot of innocent people who are going to get killed if we go to war."
Mr. Bunn, who contends that the risk of not going to war against Saddam Hussein in Iraq exceeds the risk of trying to remove him from power, said: "I think anybody who listens to the president's speeches would find his language has been even and diplomatic. The idea that he's been too forceful is a bad rap.
"But there's a strain of West Texas straight talk that unfortunately may be misunderstood." Mr. Bunn said. In West Texas, he said, "black is black, white is white and an apple is an apple. We mean what we say."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about attitudes among people in the oil country of West Texas about the possibility of war with Iraq misstated the amount of oil Texas produced last year. It was 364 million barrels, not 364 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bradley Bunn said that in West Texas, "We mean what we say."; Elmer and Betty Feland are Democrats who support a war. But Mr. Feland said of President Bush, "He still needs to be got out of there."; Andrews, Tex., is in the heart of Bush and oil country, but not everyone there wholeheartedly supports a war with Iraq. (Photographs by Gerald Ewing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMICWEAPONS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (69%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; TEXAS; ANDREWS (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



310 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Cautionary Notes From Alaska 

 BODY:
The National Academy of Sciences has now released its long-awaited study of the environmental consequences of three decades of oil drilling along Alaska's North Slope. The report concludes that these consequences have been largely unfavorable and are likely to get worse despite efforts by the oil companies to minimize damage. The report did not address the likely effect of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an adjacent property coveted by the oil companies and the Bush administration. But it presents a disturbing picture of what could happen, even with improvements in drilling technology, and is thus another good argument for leaving the refuge alone. 
 Oil was discovered on the North Slope in 1968. The area has since supplied about 20 percent of America's domestic production, but at considerable environmental cost. The reproductive rates of certain bird species, including snow geese, eiders and some shorebirds, have declined. Female caribou are producing fewer calves, while offshore seismic activity has driven whales out to sea and beyond the hunting range of native communities. The report also says that thousands of acres of tundra vegetation have been destroyed and that "wilderness values" -- a broader term encompassing solitude and scenic qualities -- have been compromised in a much larger area. The problem has not been the individual wells but associated infrastructure, like roads, pipelines and housing. 
 None of this is likely to deter Congressional proponents of drilling in the refuge's coastal plain, an undisturbed 1.5-million-acre wilderness that cannot be drilled without specific authorization by Congress. Nor is it likely to deter Gale Norton, the secretary of the interior, who has lately been quite busy searching for oil elsewhere in Alaska. In recent months, her department has moved to open 8.8 million acres in the northwest corner of the National Petroleum Reserve, while seeking to ease important environmental protections imposed by the Clinton administration when it made 4.6 million acres in the reserve's northeast corner available for leasing in 1998. Her department also plans to lease nearly 10 million acres in the Beaufort Sea off the state's northern edge. 
As this page has pointed out, there are better ways to decrease America's dependence on foreign oil than punching holes in the Arctic. Merely requiring S.U.V.'s to meet the same fuel economy standards as ordinary cars would save one million barrels a day, more than the refuge could produce at peak volume. Once again the burden of fashioning a rational energy strategy that emphasizes conservation falls on the half-dozen Republican senators who helped derail President Bush's efforts to open up the refuge last year. Their votes will be needed to ensure that the administration's assault on Alaska does not get any worse than it already is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); BIRDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); MAMMALS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); WILDLIFE (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (65%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EDITORIALS; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (93%) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (97%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (94%) ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



311 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: LONDON REVOLT; 
A Senior Aide To Blair Says She May Quit

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 9 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Tony Blair, Washington's most steadfast comrade in arms, confronted widening dissent among his Labor Party followers today as a senior member of his government said she would resign if Britain joined in a war against Iraq without United Nations authorization.
 Meanwhile, a ministerial aide quit to protest the government's readiness to go to war in Iraq and a Labor insider warned a revolt among legislators could broaden. 
 Clare Short, the international development secretary, told the BBC, "I will not uphold a breach of international law or this undermining of the U.N. and I will resign from this government." 
She called Mr. Blair's position on Iraq "extraordinarily reckless" for the United Nations and also his own political future.
While there was no immediate public comment from Mr. Blair, Ms. Short's remarks indicated the divisions within the prime minister's ranks as he seeks international support for a new United Nations resolution sanctifying the use of force against Saddam Hussein.
The resignation today of Andrew Reed, a Labor legislator with the title of parliamentary private secretary in the Environment Ministry, was the first departure of its kind among several Labor figures in the government. Anne Campbell, who holds a similar position in the Trade and Industry Ministry, is among four other junior officials contemplating a similar protest, according to her boss, Patricia Hewitt.
After a parliamentary revolt by 122 Labor lawmakers last month, when they supported a motion stating that the case for military action was "as yet unproven," Doug Henderson, a former armed forces minister, said the number of Labor dissidents could swell to "upward of 150."
Britain has earmarked some 40,000 troops to join the 200,000-plus American soldiers poised to invade Iraq, making it the only significant non-American contributor of forces to President Bush's "coalition of the willing." But Mr. Blair's unswerving support for the Bush administration's invasion plans -- with or without a second resolution -- has turned into by far his riskiest political gamble since taking office in 1997.
Only 15 percent of Britons favor war without a second resolution, according to the latest opinion survey today, leaving Mr. Blair's fortunes in part hostage to the outcome of a military campaign whose consequences cannot be forecast. While he does not require Parliament's approval to join hostilities, Mr. Blair could well be risking his political future by seeming to flout international opinion. 
"My instinct is that this is one of the most critical periods I can remember in the Labor Party," Mr. Henderson said in a television interview. 
Mr. Blair was reported to have spent the weekend working the telephones to raise support for a new United Nations resolution giving Iraq until March 17 to disarm. France and Russia, both of which have veto power in the Security Council, oppose the resolution, along with Germany and others.
Mr. Blair's loyalists rallied in support today, seeking to convince the nation that a new resolution was still possible. "We are proceeding through international law to deal with Saddam," said Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott. "We are working very hard to get agreement for the second resolution." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); VETO (79%); POLITICS (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) COWELL, ALAN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHORT, CLARE; REED, ANDRE; HENDERSON, DOUG 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



312 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Find Agendas Eclipsed by Antiwar Questions 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: SIOUX CITY, Iowa, March 9 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri came here today for a thoughtful Sunday morning living room conversation with Iowa Democrats about the issues of his emerging presidential campaign: education, health care and pension.
 But for 25 minutes, Mr. Gephardt was badgered about his support for President Bush's Iraq policy in a tense session that finally ended when the local Democratic chairman said Mr. Gephardt was running behind schedule. In an instant, Mr. Gephardt was out of the room headed to his next stop. 
 Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts came to Iowa on Saturday to give a speech in Des Moines about women's issues. But he arrived to the shouts of antiwar demonstrators, and a meeting with local Democrats turned into an anguished discussion about what was taking place in Washington and Iraq and Mr. Kerry's support for the Iraq resolution passed by Congress last October. 
Even Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor who has repeatedly presented himself as the antiwar candidate to what Democrats said has been notable success here, expressed frustration at what he encountered as he tried to talk about farm prices on Friday.
"I had a press conference and it was all about the war," Dr. Dean said. "And finally I said, 'Would anybody like to talk about the enormous jump in the unemployment rate that was announced in the morning papers?' "
With the nation readying for a possible war, Democratic presidential candidates in Iowa this weekend got a taste of the complicated new world that presumably awaits them this spring -- a world of trying to campaign for president at a time of a war, or a near-war, that has captured the attention of the nation while sowing ideological divisions within the Democratic party and among the candidates.
The coming weeks or months are shaping up as a period of American presidential campaign history unlike any since perhaps 1944, when Thomas E. Dewey found himself in the unenviable position of campaigning against Franklin Delano Roosevelt as Roosevelt sought a fourth term during World War II. 
By contrast, in 1968 during the Vietnam War the fighting was so far engaged and judged by so many Americans to be a failure that two candidates built their campaigns entirely on an antiwar platform.
Beyond the loss of attention being paid to Democratic candidates who were not drawing a lot of attention to begin with, the campaigns are now struggling with crucial decisions about what is appropriate to do or say if the United Sates goes to war, with some considering whether to suspend public campaigning. 
The Democrats are considering these questions with the expectation that what takes place over the next two months could be critical in setting the framework for the election of 2004 by determining the extent to which Mr. Bush is able to command the issue of national security. It has put four candidates -- the members of Congress who backed the Iraq resolution in Congress last fall -- in the difficult position of finding their own immediate campaign prospects linked, at least to some extent, to Mr. Bush's decisions and a possible war that they at least initially approved.
And members of Congress, including six of the Democratic presidential contenders, are going to be under pressure to stay close to Washington so they are not perceived as neglecting the nation's business. 
Campaign advisers to all the major candidates said they believed it would be foolhardy to criticize Mr. Bush on his Iraq policy if hostilities began, and some suggested that criticizing Mr. Bush on domestic issues during a war could carry the risk of being portrayed as unpatriotic.
Advisers to Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who has been the most consistently pro-war candidate in the Democratic field, said he was not sure how much time he would spend campaigning if the nation went to war, and they spoke with frustration about the uncertainty of current events.
"Can somebody tell me what day it's going to start?" asked Mr. Lieberman's campaign manager, Craig Smith. "You know it's out there, and you know it's looming, and it's like 10 days from now, should we schedule a big boisterous rally? I'm not sure that's a smart thing to do."
The candidates are struggling with the question of what they can say. In recent days Mr. Kerry, in defending his vote in favor of the Iraq resolution, has been criticizing Mr. Bush for what Mr. Kerry suggested was a rush to war. The senator said in an interview in Des Moines that such comments would cease should fighting begin.
"When the war begins, if the war begins, I support the troops and I support the United States of America winning as rapidly as possible," he said. "When the troops are in the field and fighting -- if they're in the field and fighting -- remembering what it's like to be those troops, I think they need a unified America that is prepared to win."
By contrast, Dr. Dean, who acknowledged that his fortunes in Iowa had been lifted by the perception that he is more antiwar than many of his opponents, stopped short when asked what he would say if there was a war.
"You know, I don't know the answer to that yet," he said, while campaigning through eastern Iowa on Friday. "Certainly I'm going to support Americans kids that are sent over there. Obviously, I'm going to wish everybody well. You know, you root for your country."
Several Iowans who said they opposed the war said they were uncomfortable with the idea of Democratic candidates criticizing Mr. Bush's war policy when Americans troops were in the field. 
"I think they should support Bush," said Mary Agnew, who lives near Amana. "It gives all the Arab countries the wrong idea that we are vulnerable."
If there is any silver lining to this for the candidates, it is that an imposed blackout on public appearances leaves time for private fund-raising by candidates, and this happens to be the time that they are under extraordinary pressure to get to their telephones. March 31 is the end of the first quarter of fund-raising.
The four Democrats who were in Iowa this weekend -- Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio was the fourth -- represent a cross-section of candidate opinion on the war, and they were campaigning in a state where antiwar sentiment among Democrats runs high. Their travels provided them with abundant reminders of how times had changed. When Dr. Dean showed up for lunch at the Ox Yoke Inn in Amana, Iowans who had come to see him were quietly gathered around a television set watching the proceedings at United Nations Security Council.
And the questions they encountered were usually about Iraq. Mr. Gephardt saw that at his first stop of the day as he was loudly and repeatedly challenged by Democrats in the living room of Chris Jensen, who before Mr. Gephardt arrived had said he was upset with the war policies of his guest.
Mr. Gephardt wanted to talk about his plan for universal health care and pension portability, but this audience had no interest in that. 
"I feel like I'm on a bus and Bush is driving and I'm looking back and I'm thinking, 'Who gave him the key?' " said Brad Kollars, 53, a lawyer from Sioux City, staring intently at Mr. Gephardt.
Mr. Gephardt repeatedly defended voting in favor of the Iraq resolution in Congress, invoking the image of "an A-bomb in a Ryder truck" planted by terrorists killing hundreds of thousands of citizens in a major American city, as he applauded Mr. Bush's goals while criticizing his style.
"I didn't vote for him, and I would never vote for him," Mr. Gephardt said. "The problem we've got is he is the president of the United States." 
"As a leader of Congress," Mr. Gephardt said, "I felt an obligation to try to help him keep the people safe."
Mr. Kerry said in an interview that he had no regrets about voting in favor of the Iraq resolution, but said that in implementing it, Mr. Bush had "butchered what ought to be straightforward and very important diplomacy."
Mr. Kerry's explanations left at least some Democrats here a little frustrated. 
"I'd like to hear something stronger from Congress," said Barbara Boatwright, a longtime Polk County Democratic activist who sternly pressed Mr. Kerry on his vote. "I wish we'd have an outcry and protest from Democratic members of Congress."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Iowa this weekend, Senator John Kerry of Massachussetts, top, at a legion hall in Des Moines, and Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, in Dubuque, found most questions focused on war issues.; Representative Richard A. Gephardt spoke in Onawa yesterday while campaigning in Iowa, where antiwar sentiment among Democrats is high. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); WOMEN (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PRIMARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; KERRY, JOHN (SEN); DEAN, HOWARD; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (95%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; IOWA

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003 



313 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: Universe as Doughnut: New Data, New Debate 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE 

 BODY:
Long ago in the dawn of the computer age, college students often whiled away the nights playing a computer game called Spacewar. It consisted of two rocket ships attempting to blast each other out of the sky with torpedoes while trying to avoid falling into a star at the center of the screen.
 Although cartoonish in appearance, the game was amazingly faithful to the laws of physics, complete with a gravitational field that affected both the torpedoes and the rockets. Only one feature seemed outlandish: a ship that drifted off the edge of the screen would reappear on the opposite side. 
 Real space couldn't work that way. 
Or could it?
Imagine that the Spacewar screen is wrapped around to form a cylinder or a section of a doughnut so that the two edges meet.
That is the picture of space, some cosmologists say, that has been suggested by a new detailed map of the early universe. Their analysis of this map has now provided a series of hints -- though only hints -- that the universe may have a more complicated shape than astronomers presumed.
Rather than being infinite in all directions, as the most fashionable theory suggests, the universe could be radically smaller in one direction than the others. As a result it may be even be shaped like a doughnut.
"There's a hint in the data that if you traveled far and fast in the direction of the constellation Virgo, you'd return to Earth from the opposite direction," said Dr. Max Tegmark, a cosmologist at the University of Pennsylvania.
The new data have generated both buzz and skepticism among cosmologists in recent weeks. Dr. Tegmark and other astronomers agree that the measurements are far from conclusive, or even persuasive about the shape of the universe.
But if true, the doughnut universe would force cosmologists to reconsider their theories about what happened in the earliest moments after the universe was born in the Big Bang; those theories predict an infinite cosmos. 
The new findings have brought to center stage the hope that astronomers may be able to test speculations about the shape, or topology, of the universe that until recently have been relegated to the abstract mathematical margins of cosmology.
The results are part of the bounty of data produced by a NASA satellite known as the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, built and operated by an international collaboration led by Dr. Charles L. Bennett of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. The satellite recorded the pattern of heat, in the form of faint microwave radiation, that fills the sky.
This radiation is believed to be the afterglow of the Big Bang itself, and thus constitutes a portrait of the universe when it was only 380,000 years old.
As the COBE satellite first confirmed in 1992, the microwave cloud is laced with ripples and splotches -- lumps in the cosmic gravy -- from which galaxies and other cosmic structures would ultimately form.
According to theory, these lumps are born as microscopic fluctuations during the first instant of time and then amplified into sound waves as the universe expands and matter and energy slosh around.
Now the new satellite has illuminated the findings of COBE (pronounced KOE-bee, for Cosmic Background Explorer) in exquisite detail.
By analyzing these waves cosmologists can determine many of the characteristics of the universe, which scientists have long debated, like its age and density. To their delight, the first results from the Wilkinson satellite, released last month, confirmed many of the strange ideas that cosmologists entertained in the last decade, including the notion that most of the universe consists of something called dark energy, which is pushing space apart at an accelerating rate.
"Cosmologists have built a house of cards and it stands," said Dr. James Peebles, a cosmologist at Princeton.
But to their even greater delight, perhaps, as they dig into the trove released last month, cosmologists are finding hints of even more strangeness.
In principle, in an infinite universe, the waves in the cosmic fireball should appear randomly around the sky at all sizes. But, according to the new map, there seems to be a limit to the size of the waves, with none extending more than 60 degrees across the sky.
The effect was first noted as a puzzle in the COBE data, according to Dr. Gary Hinshaw, an astronomer at the Goddard Space Flight Center and a member of the Wilkinson probe team, and now seems confirmed.
If the universe were a guitar string, it would be missing its deepest notes, the ones with the longest wavelengths, perhaps because it is not big enough to sustain them.
"The fact that there appears to be an angular cutoff hints at a special distance scale in the universe," Dr. Hinshaw said.
Another analysis of the new map suggests that there is a special direction, as well as a special scale in the universe. While reanalyzing the Wilkinson data to eliminate radio noise from stars and our own galaxy, Dr. Tegmark, Dr. Angelica de Oliveira-Costa, also at Pennsylvania and married to Dr. Tegmark, and Dr. Andrew J. S. Hamilton of the University of Colorado have discovered that the universe appears lumpier in one direction through space than it does in another. When they combed finer variations out of the map, the remaining large-scale variations formed a line across the sky. 
It could be a chance alignment, a statistical fluke, Dr. Tegmark said, or contamination from radio noise from the galaxy.
But in a paper posted on the physics Web site (at arXiv.org/pdf /astro-ph/0302496) late last month, the three cosmologists wrote that it was "difficult not to be intrigued" that their results bore all the earmarks of what are variously called small, compact, finite or periodic universes.
If the universe is finite in one dimension, like a cylinder or a doughnut, Dr. Tegmark said in an interview, there is a limit to the size of clumps that can fit in that direction. They couldn't be bigger than the universe in that direction, just as a guitar string can only play a note so low, depending on its length. So the biggest blobs would have to squish out in a plane in other directions. The way home around the doughnut would be perpendicular to that plane. 
Nobody is yet claiming that this is a revolution. The notion of a special direction is on less firm ground than the discovery of a cutoff of large structures. "More detailed work in needed to clarify what's going on," Dr. Tegmark said.
Dr. Martin Rees, a cosmologist at Cambridge University," said he didn't think there was evidence for "anything crazy" in the data. 
Even aficionados of finite universes are guarded. Dr. David Spergel, a Princeton cosmologist and Wilkinson satellite team member, called the results "intriguing," but cautioned that they could also be due to chance.
Dr. Hinshaw called the findings of Dr. Tegmark's team "surprisingly robust," but added, "I'm not sure it says something profound about the universe." 
Dr. Alexei Starobinski, a theorist at the Landau Institute in Moscow, proposed in 1984 with his mentor, Dr. Yakov B. Zeldovich, that the universe could have been born as a doughnut. Dr. Starobinski emphasized that an infinite universe with ordinary Euclidean geometry was the most natural universe and stillfavored by theory.
"However, theory is theory, but observations might tell us something different," he said in an e-mail message.

The Science of Shapes
A Compact Universe Like Mirrored Halls
The new work involves topology, the branch of mathematics that deals with shapes. Topologists are often accused of not knowing the difference between a coffee mug and a doughnut; because each object has one hole, the two can be deformed into each other and are thus topologically equivalent. In a similar vein, a figure 8 and a pair of eyeglass frames are also the same to a topologist. The more holes, the more complicated the topology.
The simplest topology is just the infinite space of the Euclidean geometry taught in high school. But some cosmologists have a hard time calculating how an infinite universe could have appeared in that kind of space. Nature, they contend, might have had an easier time making a small "compact" universe than an infinite one, and they assume Nature would take the easy way out.
"The basic idea is that God's on a budget," said Dr. George Smoot, a physicist at the University of California's Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and a leader on the COBE team.
The simplest of these compact universes is something called a 3-torus, a doughnut wrapped in three different dimensions. This object is essentially impossible to visualize: it is the equivalent, in a way, of a cube whose opposite sides are somehow glued together. In two dimensions it works just like the Spacewar screen.
Living in such a universe would be like being inside a hall of mirrors, Dr. Tegmark said. Instead of seeing new stars deeper and deeper in space, you see the same things over and over again as light travels out one side of your cube and back in the other.
This mirror game is not limited to cubes and doughnuts. Over the years mathematicians, particularly Dr. William Paul Thurston, now at the University of California at Davis, and Dr. Jeffrey Weeks, an independent mathematician, have speculated about universes composed of various polyhedrons glued together in various ways.
In 1996 the French astronomer Dr. Jean-Pierre Luminet of the Paris Observatory and his colleagues Dr. Roland Lehoucq and Dr. Marc Lachieze-Rey, both of the Center for Astrophysical Studies in Saclay, France, developed a method called "cosmic crystallography," using galaxy statistics to detect and diagnose the repeating periodic patterns that would be created in the sky by light going around and around in differently shaped universe.

Finite or Infinite?
Problems Are Posed For Favored Theory
Why would the universe want to do this to us? Partly to avoid the difficulties of the infinite, said Dr. Glenn Starkman, an astronomer at the Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. Besides being difficult to create, an infinite universe is philosophically unattractive. In an infinite volume, he pointed out, anything that can happen will happen.
"Somewhere there are two guys having this same conversation," Dr. Starkman said in a telephone interview, "except that one of them has a purple phone."
Moreover, the idea that dimensions could be curled in loops occurs naturally in theories that try to unite gravity and particle physics, several physicists pointed out. For example, according to string theory, the leading candidate for a theory of everything, the universe actually has 10 dimensions -- 9 of space and 1 of time -- rather than the 4 we are familiar with. The extra dimensions are curled up into submicroscopic loops, like the threads in an uncut carpet pile, so that we don't notice them in ordinary life.
"This is the same idea on a very large scale," Dr. Smoot said.
Knowing that all nine of the spatial dimensions predicted by string theory are finite and thus on the same footing could help string theorists decide among the nearly endless possibilities allowed by the theory, scientists say.
But a finite universe would create big problems for the reigning theory of the Big Bang, inflation theory. It posits that the universe underwent a burst of hyperexpansion in its earliest moments. Among other things, it implies that the observable universe today, a bubble 28 billion light-years in diameter, is only a speck on the surface of a vastly greater realm trillions upon trillions of light-years across.
"There's no natural way yet proposed to get the inflation to stop and give a space that's big enough to house all the galaxies but small enough to see within the observable horizon," said Dr. Janna Levin, a Cambridge University cosmologist who wrote about finite universes in her 1992 book, "How the Universe Got Its Spots, Diary of a Finite Time in a Finite Space."
Dr. Spergel added, "If the universe were finite, then this would rule out inflation and require something new."

The Search for Patterns
One Convincing Sign Of the Doughnut
So far, sporadic searches for repeating patterns of quasars or distant galaxy clusters that would occur in a hall of mirrors universe have been unsuccessful.
For finite universe aficionados, the first encouragement of note was COBE's discovery that the universe appeared to be deficient in large-scale fluctuations. There were no structures extending more than about 60 degrees across the sky. But the finding was subject to large statistical uncertainties, astronomers said.
There are other possible explanations for the cutoff in fluctuation size, Dr. Starkman explained. According to inflation the biggest longest waves are created first, and thus the missing notes are the earliest ones that would have been strummed by inflation's guitar. Perhaps, he said, this is telling us something about the beginning of inflation.
Dr. George Efstathiou of Cambridge University has pointed out in a recent paper submitted to the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society that the Wilkinson satellite data are also marginally consistent with yet another finite shape, namely a sphere. In that case, fluctuations larger than the radius of the sphere might be dampened, he said, producing the observed cutoff.
The most convincing sign of a doughnut universe, if it exists, astronomers say, could come from a search of the satellite data now being performed by Dr. Spergel, Dr. Starkman and Dr. Neil J. Cornish of Montana State University. "We're looking for circles in the sky," Dr. Starkman said.
In a 1998 paper they point out that if the universe is small enough, part of the cosmic background radiation, which essentially fills the sky surrounding us, will hit the sides of the "box" or the space war screen we are in and appear on the other side. The result, in the simplest case, would be identical circles on opposite sides of the sky with the same patterns of hot and cold running around them.
In the simplest case, the size of the circles would depend on the distance between the "walls" of the universe: the smaller the universe, the bigger the circles. 
Success or even a definitive failure is not guaranteed. "It would be fantastic if something like that was found," Dr. Hinshaw said of the circles.
But success or even a definitive failure is not guaranteed. If the universe is finite but stillmuch larger than today's observable universe -- 28 billion light-years in diameter -- the circles will not show. "Usually in science when we see an intriguing pattern that appears to contradict existing theory we do a better experiment," Dr. Spergel wrote in an e-mail message, but in this case, "Ultimately we will be limited by the fact that we can only observe the 'visible' universe."
Dr. Levin was doubtful, "I suspect every last one of us would be flabbergasted if the universe was so small," she said in an e-mail message. When she first heard about the new satellite data, she reported, "I tried on the idea that we were really and truly seeing the finite extent of space and I was filled with dread.
"But I'm enjoying it too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Angelica de Oliveira-Costa and Dr. Max Tegmark of the University of Pennsylvania have helped analyze a new map of the early universe. Their conclusions are startling, to say the least. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. F2) Charts: "THE UNIVERSE"Is infinity an illusion? Some scientists say new data hint that space is like a hall of mirrors in which light travels around a small universe, creating an apparently endless chain of images. THE THEORY Observers looking at a portion of the universe in one direction . . . . . . might see the same portion of the universe when they look in the opposite direction because it connects with itself. IMAGES OF THE EARLY UNIVERSE New images like the one above and at right show variations in background levels of microwave energy, an echo of the Big Bang. The colors in the images show very slight temperature fluctuations. HOW ASTRO-PHYSICISTS COULD PROVE THE THEORY Astrophysicists looking at opposing stretches of the sky would see similar patterns and scales in the temperature fluctuations . . . . . . leading to the idea that the universe is finite and repeats itself. SEEING THE UNIVERSE IN AN OLD VIDEO GAME Programmers who developed an early video game, Spacewar, allowed spaceships to fly off one side of the screen and reappear on the opposite side. Light may move the same way in the universe, if the universe wraps around itself, filling the sky with replicas of the same stars and galaxies over and over again. (Sources: NASA; Dr. Max Tegmark, University of Pennsylvania)(pg. F1) Chart: "Constructing a Small Universe"In the video game Spacewar, a rocket that drifts off the side of the screen reappears on the other side. The same thing could theoretically happen in the universe if its shape were right. A rectangular piece of material is curved into a cylinder and glued together. The cylinder is bent around in a circle. Its ends join together to form a torus, or doughnut shape. Diagram of what the universe could theoretically look like. (Source: "How the Universe Got Its Spots," by Janna Levin)(pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); PHYSICS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%) SPACE; WILKINSON MICROWAVE ANISTROPY PROBE (SATELLITE); MICROWAVES; UNIVERSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



314 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: R&B Award Winners Are Left Waiting for Their Prize Money 

BYLINE:  By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

 BODY:
When Rosa Lee Hawkins, a member of the 60's girl trio the Dixie Cups, was told that her group was being given a Pioneer Award from the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, she could barely contain her glee. "It's an honor," Ms. Hawkins said in a telephone interview from her home in New Orleans. "We were elated when we received the official letter."
 Elation soon morphed into utter disappointment, however, when the Dixie Cups and the seven other acts honored at the foundation's 13th annual ceremony in Manhattan two weeks ago did not receive the honorarium checks that have always accompanied the awards in the past. 
 "No one told us that we wouldn't be receiving anything," Ms. Hawkins said. "We were definitely surprised. I still don't know what's really going on."
In the past individual acts have received $15,000 and groups $20,000. But this year the R&B Foundation has significantly altered the size of the awards and the way they are paid because of lagging fund-raising and a decrease in donations from record companies and individuals.
"Donations from our music industry sponsors are down about 60 percent," said Kendall Minter, chairman of the foundation's board, adding that the group was beginning to look beyond traditional record companies for financial support. "They're in economic dire straits, so we're trying not to be so beholden to their generosity."
Cecilia Carter, the foundation's executive director, said, "When stocks are down, support can be down."
Founded in 1988, the R&B Foundation has been dedicated to preserving the genre's legacy and providing financial support and medical assistance to artists who have not fared well over the years. The organization has also pushed record companies to make restitution to artists from the 1940's, 50's, 60's and 70's by raising royalty rates on old, exploitative contracts.
In addition to the Dixie Cups, Pioneer Awards this year went to the Supremes, the doo-wop group the Del Vikings, the blues singer Koko Taylor, the pop reggae artist Johnny Nash ("I Can See Clearly Now"), the R&B singer Clarence Frogman Henry, the saxophonist Maceo Parker and the funk legend George Clinton. 
Lifetime achievement awards were presented to Dionne Warwick and the broadcaster Hal Jackson. (Neither award carries a cash honorarium.) Jackie Wilson, who died in 1984, received the foundation's Legacy tribute.
Honorees were not told beforehand that they would not be receiving the cash awards, and it was not until several days after the Feb. 20 ceremony that the R&B Foundation offered any explanation, said Richard Lustig, an agent for the Del Vikings.
Mr. Lustig said the foundation originally promised the two surviving members of the Del Vikings, David Lerchey and Norman Wright, $10,000 each. But after the event he was notified that they would get half of that, and possibly less. 
"Now they're saying the guys will receive somewhere between $2,500 and $5,000 each," Mr. Lustig said. "David and Norman don't live in big, fancy houses and drive big, fancy cars. They needed that money. They're not the Rolling Stones."
"They dangled the carrot in front of these guys and then yanked it away," Mr. Lustig added. "I have no respect for this organization right now."
Ms. Hawkins said: "I think we're all more upset about the fact that no one thought enough about the artists to approach them early on. They knew what was going on before we even left our house."
Ms. Carter blamed understaffing. "There were three people managing the entire process," she said. "It's an unfortunate situation that did occur. It's definitely not something that we planned."
The R&B Foundation, Ms. Carter said, is working to resolve the situation as quickly as possible. 
"We are sending out checks to honorees by the end of this week," she said. Instead of receiving a lump sum, however, artists will be paid in installments over the next few months, she said. Ms. Carter would not reveal the size of the initial payments.
"My preference is for the checks to arrive in the hands of the honorees, and if they choose to divulge that, that's fine," she said. She said she could not promise that award winners would receive the same amount given in the past.
"Our intent is to host a benefit concert -- which Bonnie Raitt has already agreed to do -- and the proceeds will be forwarded directly to the honorees," she said. No date has been set for the concert, but Ms. Carter said, "It will be sooner rather than later."
Ms. Raitt, the organization's most prominent board member, said she was unaware that honorees had not been notified about the foundation's financial problems in advance. "I don't feel it was deliberate," she said. "I just think it was one of those things that fell through the cracks."
Of the late checks Ms. Raitt said: "The basic fact is that we didn't have enough to make the same type of donations. It's not from a lack of good management or any malfeasance on our part. It's from a lack of donations."
"We ask," Ms. Raitt said, "but we don't necessarily get."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isaac Hayes and George Clinton, with microphones, flanking Mary Wilson of the Supremes at the Rhythm and Blues Foundation awards; at right, sisters Rosa Lee and Barbara Ann Hawkins of the Dixie Cups. (Jack Vartoogian for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Clarence Frogman Henry performing last month at the Rhythm and Blues Foundation awards. (Jack Vartoogian for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); MUSIC (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); ROYALTIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



315 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Nikkei Hits 20-Year Low as Yen Strengthens 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 10 

 BODY:
Japan's most widely followed stock index, the Nikkei 225, fell to fresh 20-year lows today, briefly moving below 8,000, a level that set off alarm bells in the government and the central bank.
 The decline, coupled with the yen's steady rise against the dollar, comes as the world girds for war in Iraq. The increasing likelihood of armed conflict, which has already hurt the dollar and eroded stock prices in the United States, may also be curbing growth in the American economy, a slowdown that would hurt Japan's biggest exporters, which rely heavily on the United States market. 
 In a now-familiar cycle, the slide in Japanese share prices threatens to leave many of Japan's largest banks and insurers having to record staggering portfolio losses when they close their books for the fiscal year on March 31. Many financial companies are hurrying to sell even more stocks before then to limit their losses, pushing the stock market down further.
Trying to stem a full-scale retreat, the government and the Bank of Japan are discussing ways to prop up share prices and the dollar. Though it never acknowledges doing so openly, the government is known to frequently prod the managers of the public pension system and the postal savings system to buy stocks for their immense portfolios at crucial junctures.The central bank also has more than 1 trillion yen ($8.6 billion) remaining in a special fund set up to buy stocks from the big banks.
"We must study effective measures" to cooperate with the central bank, the chief cabinet secretary, Yasuo Fukuda, told reporters today. He declined to be more specific.
The Nikkei 225 finished the day with a 1.3 percent loss at 8,042, its fifth consecutive daily decline. After fading steadily in the morning, it dived abruptly as the afternoon began, falling below the 8,000 mark for the first time since March 1, 1983, and at one point touching 7,975 before recovering a bit. 
In past years, the March market jitters had mainly to do with Japan's domestic economic problems, like the bad loans held by the banks. This year, the main cause -- tensions in the Gulf -- is clearly beyond Japan's control. With that in mind, Taku Yamasaki, a leading ruling-party policy maker, said on Sunday that the government should be thinking about extra public spending to prop up the markets and the economy. 
"The timing of this fall in the market makes it politically disastrous, and increases the pressure to do something," Marshall Gittler, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo, said.
When stock prices fell sharply last March, the government tightened rules on short selling, or selling borrowed shares in hopes of profiting from a later fall in their price. Regulators also censured several brokerages. Together, the measures appeared to halt the decline. 
The finance minister, Masajuro Shiokawa, who last year called the stock market a "casino" and a paradise for speculators, said today that he would ask the Tokyo Stock Exchange why prices were falling so low this year. "The recent movements in share prices and the state of stock transactions are abnormal," he said.
The yen's steady rise against the dollar is adding to Mr. Shiokawa's worries. The dollar bought 116.70 yen in Tokyo trading today, down from 117.35 yen on Friday. 
A strong yen hurts Japanese exporters when they bring home profits earned overseas, and makes their products more expensive abroad. The government has already spent 2 trillion yen ($16.8 billion) buying dollars this year in hopes of stabilizing the exchange rate. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A New Low"Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index has fallen to its lowest level in 20 years. Graph tracks the Nikkei 225 Index since 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INSURANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TRENDS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; BANKS AND BANKING; INSURANCE; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (59%) BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



316 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: A Fiscal Train Wreck 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
With war looming, it's time to be prepared. So last week I switched to a fixed-rate mortgage. It means higher monthly payments, but I'm terrified about what will happen to interest rates once financial markets wake up to the implications of skyrocketing budget deficits.
 From a fiscal point of view the impending war is a lose-lose proposition. If it goes badly, the resulting mess will be a disaster for the budget. If it goes well, administration officials have made it clear that they will use any bump in the polls to ram through more big tax cuts, which will also be a disaster for the budget. Either way, the tide of red ink will keep on rising. 
 Last week the Congressional Budget Office marked down its estimates yet again. Just two years ago, you may remember, the C.B.O. was projecting a 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion. Now it projects a 10-year deficit of $1.8 trillion.
And that's way too optimistic. The Congressional Budget Office operates under ground rules that force it to wear rose-colored lenses. If you take into account -- as the C.B.O. cannot -- the effects of likely changes in the alternative minimum tax, include realistic estimates of future spending and allow for the cost of war and reconstruction, it's clear that the 10-year deficit will be at least $3 trillion.
So what? Two years ago the administration promised to run large surpluses. A year ago it said the deficit was only temporary. Now it says deficits don't matter. But we're looking at a fiscal crisis that will drive interest rates sky-high. 
A leading economist recently summed up one reason why: "When the government reduces saving by running a budget deficit, the interest rate rises." Yes, that's from a textbook by the chief administration economist, Gregory Mankiw.
But what's really scary -- what makes a fixed-rate mortgage seem like such a good idea -- is the looming threat to the federal government's solvency.
That may sound alarmist: right now the deficit, while huge in absolute terms, is only 2 -- make that 3, O.K., maybe 4 -- percent of G.D.P. But that misses the point. "Think of the federal government as a gigantic insurance company (with a sideline business in national defense and homeland security), which does its accounting on a cash basis, only counting premiums and payouts as they go in and out the door. An insurance company with cash accounting . . . is an accident waiting to happen." So says the Treasury under secretary Peter Fisher; his point is that because of the future liabilities of Social Security and Medicare, the true budget picture is much worse than the conventional deficit numbers suggest. 
Of course, Mr. Fisher isn't allowed to draw the obvious implication: that his boss's push for big permanent tax cuts is completely crazy. But the conclusion is inescapable. Without the Bush tax cuts, it would have been difficult to cope with the fiscal implications of an aging population. With those tax cuts, the task is simply impossible. The accident -- the fiscal train wreck -- is already under way. 
How will the train wreck play itself out? Maybe a future administration will use butterfly ballots to disenfranchise retirees, making it possible to slash Social Security and Medicare. Or maybe a repentant Rush Limbaugh will lead the drive to raise taxes on the rich. But my prediction is that politicians will eventually be tempted to resolve the crisis the way irresponsible governments usually do: by printing money, both to pay current bills and to inflate away debt. 
And as that temptation becomes obvious, interest rates will soar. It won't happen right away. With the economy stalling and the stock market plunging, short-term rates are probably headed down, not up, in the next few months, and mortgage rates may not have hit bottom yet. But unless we slide into Japanese-style deflation, there are much higher interest rates in our future.
I think that the main thing keeping long-term interest rates low right now is cognitive dissonance. Even though the business community is starting to get scared -- the ultra-establishment Committee for Economic Development now warns that "a fiscal crisis threatens our future standard of living" -- investors still can't believe that the leaders of the United States are acting like the rulers of a banana republic. But I've done the math, and reached my own conclusions -- and I've locked in my rate. 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TAXATION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) ;CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



317 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 379 words

PERSON: Bernard Dowiyogo 

HEADLINE: Bernard Dowiyogo, 57, President Of Pacific Island Nation of Nauru 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Australia, March 10 

 BODY:
President Bernard Dowiyogo of Nauru, known as a pragmatic leader of his environmentally devastated South Pacific island, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 57.
 Mr. Dowiyogo died at George Washington University Hospital of complications after an 11-hour heart operation five days earlier, the hospital announced. 
 His heart problems were a byproduct of diabetes, a common ailment on Nauru, a tiny island about halfway between Australia and Hawaii.
Mr. Dowiyogo was in the United States on official business. His body will be returned to Nauru on a United States Air Force plane for a funeral service this week.
He became president for the sixth time in January.
During the 1980's, Mr. Dowiyogo earned a reputation in South Pacific politics for his sharp criticism of France and the United States for atomic weapons testing in the region.
He was also known as one of Nauru's more pragmatic leaders, but one who never managed to stem the waste and corruption on an island that has been devastated by decades of phosphate mining, and now faces economic collapse.
Nauru, with a land area of eight square miles, is the world's smallest independent republic. It is almost completely dependent on phosphate deposits, mined for use as fertilizer. Phosphate produced a great deal of wealth for island residents, but much of the money was squandered and the deposits are nearly exhausted. In addition, the mining has caused extensive damage to island's vegetation and soil. Nauru's budget deficit last year was $15 million, about half its gross domestic product.
In 2001, Nauru agreed to accept hundreds of refugees from Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries who had traveled by boat to seek asylum in Australia. In exchange, the island receives $10.6 million a year in aid from Australia.
Born Feb. 14, 1946, Mr. Dowiyogo became an elected member of Nauru's 18-seat Parliament in 1973. He served his first term as president in 1976-1978 after ousting the island's head chief and first president, Hammer DeRoburt, who helped win independence from Australia in 1968.
Over the next 25 years, Mr. Dowiyogo navigated the unpredictable Nauruan political landscape, serving as president for periods as long as six years and as short as 15 days.
Mr. Dowiyogo is survived by a wife and four children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Dowiyogo in 1992. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); AIR FORCES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); FERTILIZERS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); REFUGEES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); CORRUPTION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (64%); DIABETES (57%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); US AIR FORCE (57%)

DOWIYOGO, BERNARD (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) NAURU (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (95%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); FRANCE (70%) NAURU

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



318 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
OPEC is expected toagree to put world needs before quotas.

BYLINE:  By Neela Banerjee 

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
FACING the looming possibility of war in Iraq and the continued shortfall of oil exports from Venezuela, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to announce at its meeting here today that it will continue to supply as much oil as the markets need, essentially an affirmation of what it has been doing for months now, although with limited success.
 Most of the 10 voting OPEC members are now pumping as much oil as they can, but prices have stayed stubbornly high. In New York, crude oil for April delivery fell 51 cents yesterday, to $37.27 a barrel. 
 But even if OPEC does nothing today, analysts here said, the steps it has taken so far amount to an important political and economic victory. They noted that prices would have been even higher had OPEC not increased output to compensate for the loss of Venezuelan oil production and then to calm a market jittery about a possible halt in Iraqi exports, in the case of war. Recently, consuming regions, led by the United States and European countries, gave the cartel a vote of confidence by announcing that they would allow OPEC to make up for any possible shortfall in supplies if war broke out before they released oil from their strategic stockpiles. 
At a time when many in the United States are calling for greater imports of oil from outside the Middle East, OPEC's pre-emptive action has shown that the Persian Gulf states, particularly Saudi Arabia, are the only ones with the spare production capacity that can be called on to dampen prices, analysts said.
"This is Saudi Arabia's crowning glory in its short-term relations with the United States," said Raad Alkadiri, a director at PFC Energy, a Washington consulting group. "They have shown that they have the willingness to keep spare capacity that becomes of enormous strategic importance to Western markets. Despite the stresses and strains in their relations with the United States, they have shown that they are willing to act to keep prices under control."
Yesterday, on the eve of the official meeting, members debated publicly about the need to increase production officially to the maximum by abrogating production quotas, with Iran insisting there was no need to do so. But analysts said that talk of quotas was only a formality, given that OPEC has pledged to provide the market with the oil it needs to stabilize prices. That may involve producing full-tilt, depending on the progress of a possible war -- something the cartel has never done before, those analysts said.
"This is the first time the upper limits of their production band will be tested," said Yasser Elguindi, a managing director at Medley Global Advisors, a New York consulting group. "And we don't know exactly what the outcome might be. With everyone going flat-out, they may be able to squeeze 50,000 barrels here or there, but it will be at the margins."
Analysts say that the only OPEC members with any room to produce more oil are Saudi Arabia, and, to a far lesser extent, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. OPEC members do not disclose their production statistics, but analysts think that Saudi Arabia is already producing 9.2 million to 9.5 million barrels a day, or about 1.5 million barrels more than its official quota. If need be, the Saudis could increase output by an additional million barrels a day over several weeks, the analysts said.
Still, it takes about six weeks for oil from the Persian Gulf to reach the United States, which may explain why inventories of crude oil and petroleum products have remained low. That trend, in turn, has helped keep prices high. But demand for oil traditionally falls in the spring. While analysts said they thought the persistent cold weather in the northern United States might buoy oil prices, they nonetheless expect demand to slacken somewhat in the weeks to come, which might help curb the rise in prices.
Exports of oil from Venezuela have resumed and are now 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day, analysts estimated, which is still less than the 2.5 million barrels the country shipped before a general strike began in December against the government of President Hugo Chavez. But analysts warned that Venezuela would remain a far from reliable exporter until its domestic political disputes are resolved. Moreover, the shutdown of the oil fields at the beginning of the strike may have led to a permanent loss of up to 500,000 barrels of production capacity, analysts said, because some of the country's oil production is hard to revive once it has been shut in.
"The reality is that Venezuela is not going to come back to prestrike levels," Mr. Elguindi said. "Its production will probably be erratic. I think people underestimated the impact of its shutdown on markets, and that impact could last through the end of the year."
Most analysts think that OPEC, at maximum capacity, could make up for the inconsistent Venezuelan production and the loss of about two million barrels ofIraqi exports, legal and otherwise. But that leaves no margin for anything else that might go wrong, they warned. What if coming elections in oil-producing Nigeria touched off unrest? What if insurance on oil tankers to Kuwait rose to such prohibitively expensive levels that loading of some oil there stopped for a time? Or Kuwait itself shut down production to the north, near the border with Iraq?
Obaid bin Saif al-Nasseri, the oil minister for the United Arab Emirates, told reporters here yesterday that it would be "very difficult" for OPEC to make up for a halt in Iraqi oil exports and a simultaneous halt of oil production in northern Kuwait. 
If OPEC cannot cover for a shortfall in the market, then the United States and other consuming countries would probably release oil from their strategic stockpiles. The United States has about 600 million barrels of oil in its Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and the Bush administration has come under great pressure to release some of it to rein in prices, which it has flatly refused to do.
"From the United States' perspective, they want oil producers to supply as much as they can, because once the government taps the reserve, it can't go to it again if things get even worse," Mr. Elguindi said. "It becomes the measure of last resort for the country."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since September 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FUTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: ;BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRIA (72%) IRAQ; VENEZUELA

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



319 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: One Small Step for New York State Budget 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 10 

 BODY:
Three weeks before the clock runs out on the state fiscal year, legislative leaders agreed today to accept Gov. George E. Pataki's revenue forecast for next year. It was a dismal but, all agreed, accurate accounting of how much the state is likely to receive.
 Consensus on the tax revenue expected to flow into New York has never been reached so early in the budget process, providing hope that consensus on a spending plan may be reached sooner than is customary. 
 Yet many obstacles lie ahead, as the state moves into the next fiscal year without so far closing the gap in the year that ends on March 31. 
The state budget director publicly released a memo today urging all state agencies to be frugal. 
Meanwhile, the Republican governor and his counterparts, Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the Senate, stand far apart on a broad array of more politically charged financial issues.
For instance, Mr. Silver and Mr. Pataki have proposed competing plans to close about one-third of the projected $11.5 billion gap in this year's budget and next. Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno are troubled by Mr. Pataki's plans for more than $1 billion in Medicaid cuts and a $1.24 billion reduction in public-school aid to close another chunk of the gap.
Most other details of the budget, which is supposed to be finalized by April 1, remain unresolved, leading most budget analysts to conclude that the deadline will be unmet for the 19th consecutive year.
In the boom years of the late 1990's, budget negotiations were hung up on disagreements over the abundance of incoming tax revenue. The governor was typically conservative in his estimates. The Assembly routinely waited for the latest market data so it could adjust its revenue estimates upward, an act that allowed the Democratic majority to justify more liberal spending.
The early agreement this year, Mr. Silver said, merely connotes the leaders' acceptance of the state of the economy and the sagging revenue. According to the governor's projection, revenue from sales, business and income taxes in the new fiscal year will be $40.26 billion, or about $1 billion less than is expected to be collected this year, officials said.
To help the state get through the next few months, the governor's budget director, Carole E. Stone, issued a three-page bulletin on Friday to all department and agency heads. In it, she directed all agencies to cut nonessential spending. She said conference calls should replace traveling, when possible; that reports should be mailed only when required by law; and that cellular phones, beepers, subscriptions and equipment rentals, among other things, "be eliminated unless deemed critical."
If there is no budget on April 1, she said, agency heads will probably have to get employees to reduce their schedules voluntarily. Agencies should also prepare to suspend contracts for construction as of March 31.
The meeting of legislative leaders lasted about 20 minutes, and after it was over, Mr. Pataki emerged with his counterparts and said that while there was much to accomplish, the state would not run out of money. "We're in a period of very strict austerity," the governor said in a brief public statement. "And, I think that's appropriate given the economy, given the revenues, given the national and global situation."
Mr. Bruno said that spending by the Senate had been austere for years and then went to meet with the Irish tenor Ronan Tynan, who later sang "God Bless America," in the Senate chamber.
Mr. Silver, too, retreated to his side of the Capitol, but not before characterizing Ms. Stone's memo as political calculus meant to heighten tensions. He said a $710 million rainy-day fund should be used, rather than defer bills owed to localities. "That money can be used in the next three weeks and should be used," he said. "That's what it's there for." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); CLOSINGS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



320 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: IMPACT; 
For Striking Broadway Union Members, Solidarity and Fear

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN and JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
Capathia Jenkins has sung Christmas carols in the Copa Room of the Showboat Hotel Casino in Atlantic City, belted show tunes as a singing waitress aboard the Spirit of New York dinner cruises on the Hudson River and bopped as a lead singer for wedding bands.
 But after years of casino ambience, floating hecklers and nuptial crooning, Ms. Jenkins, 36, is ready for her close-up: a featured role in the new Broadway musical "The Look of Love," with songs by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, scheduled to start previews next month. 
 But like hundreds of other musical theater performers, Ms. Jenkins has had her potential big break put on hold because of the strike by Broadway's musicians, whose picket lines are being honored by the industry's actors and stagehands. 
Ms. Jenkins is just one of the hundreds of people working on Broadway whose lives have been affected by the strike, which started on Friday after negotiations with producers broke down over the minimum number of musicians required in a given orchestra pit.
If the strike continues, the 325 musicians working on Broadway, along with 650 actors and 350 stagehands who have voted to support their picket lines, will have to figure out how to make do without their paychecks in pursuing careers that in many cases are already cobbled together from various sources.
"The nature of our business is that you never know when you might lose your job, because shows close all the time," said William Ngai, the house carpenter at the Ambassador Theater. "I just hope that some of the reserves and other little stuff I get will get me through. Otherwise, it could get ugly."

The Actress
Ms. Jenkins has been on Broadway once before, making her debut in the 1999 Broadway show "The Civil War," which flopped after two months to the tune of $8 million. She played a slave and had only one solo number.
Now, however, in "The Look of Love," she has been given one of five singing roles, performing several well-known Bacharach tunes, including "Walk On By," "Make it Easy on Yourself" and the title song, the show's opening number.
This was supposed to be the show's third week of rehearsal. Instead, Ms. Jenkins sits by the phone at her home in Park Slope, waiting for strike updates and wondering if her show will be delayed or worse. "With every day that we miss, we're a day behind," she said.
One of seven children raised by a single mother who worked as a telephone operator, Ms. Jenkins knows what it is to be resourceful. She once spent six months working for Telecharge, "selling tickets to Broadway shows that I was not in." She has been on unemployment before.
But for the most part, Ms. Jenkins has been lucky. She has toured in places like the Netherlands. She performed in an Off Broadway revival of "Godspell" and sings on the soundtrack of the hit movie "Chicago."
"The phones ring and you go from one gig to the next," she said.
Lately she has turned down many of these jobs to attend rehearsals for "The Look of Love." Now she is praying that she hasn't made a terrible miscalculation.
"People are really now starting to talk about the fear," she said. 
As for the actors' decision to support the strike, Ms. Jenkins was ambivalent at first. The musicians, after all, have played nonunion productions on the road, she said, "so I didn't feel like I wanted to stand with them."
But after talking with the union deputy in her show, Ms. Jenkins said she saw the importance of joining the picket line. "She explained to me that Equity felt it was a good idea for us to stand with the musicians because our contract will be up a year from now and we're going to need to present a united front," she said. "This is a good bargaining tool to get what we want."
Ms. Jenkins also said that she and her fellow actors were concerned about the efficiency of going on with virtual orchestras, should they decide to cross the picket line. "You can't hear the downbeat, there's no conductor, it's kind of a mess," she said. "There's something about protecting the integrity of what we do on Broadway that separates it froma casino or a theme park."

The Carpenter
Mr. Ngai can't remember how many Broadway shows he's worked on during his 20 years as a Broadway carpenter, but he remembers all too well the times he wasn't working.
"There have definitely been months and months that I haven't worked," he said. "No matter how good your efforts are, there's no guarantee the show is going to run."
His current gig with "Chicago" seemed fairly secure, since as of last week, it was playing to 97 percent capacity at the Ambassador. (The musical version has seen a marked improvement in sales since the movie received 13 Academy Award nominations.)
Now, as he and his fellow stagehands honor the musicians' pickets, he's out of work, forfeiting his net pay of about $150 per day plus benefits.
With one son attending Tufts University and two teenage daughters approaching college age, Mr. Ngai is more than a little concerned about a long strike.
"Simply put, it's not cheap to live in New York," said Mr. Ngai, who is 51 and lives with his wife and children in Palisades, N.Y. "And second of all, the nature of our business is that we're employed weekly."
Mr. Ngai said that until he returned to Broadway he would try to get other jobs, anything from helping set up a concert at Madison Square Garden to assembling a set for a television show. Today, for example, he will be working a one-day job at the Lyceum Theater, one of the few Broadway theaters open; its current production, "The Play What I Wrote," is not a musical, and therefore is not subject to the musicians' strike.
"You keep your ears open and get word of where they need work," he said. "You try to allow for these things, because that's just part of the business."

The Musician
Lowell Hershey is not big, but that's the way he likes it. At 148 pounds and a hair under 5 feet 10 inches, Mr. Hershey, a trumpet player, says his size is a bonus in the cramped confines of an orchestra pit.
"Everybody always says, 'Lowell plays O.K., he gets along with everybody and doesn't take up a lot of space,' " Mr. Hershey said. "I'm fine-boned."
That and experience have made Mr. Hershey something of a rarity on Broadway: a fully employed musician with the comfort of job security.
A large part of that has to do with the show he works on, "The Phantom of the Opera," which has been playing on Broadway since January 1988 with a steady profit, until the strike shut down Broadway's musicals last week.
Mr. Hershey, 55, has been with the show since the beginning, sharing in its success. Under his current contract, he earns a little more than $1,300 for an eight-show week. The amount includes extra pay for instrument maintenance, being the lead trumpet, and his role as "in-house contractor," an administrative position within the orchestra. He also gets health benefits and pension payments.
But he is something of an exception.
"You don't become a musician to make money, so I've been very lucky to live the lifestyle I live," Mr. Hershey said. "I make a lot more than many of my colleagues."
Like many Broadway musicians, Mr. Hershey also supplements his income with outside work, playing for the New York City Ballet and the Encores! musical comedy concert series at the City Center. His wife, Carol, gives piano lessons at their home in Flushing Meadows, Queens; both their children are grown, and college and car payments are behind them.
That said, much of the freelance work is seasonal; it's "Phantom" that pays the bills.
"I will be doing other things," Mr. Hershey said, "but obviously I will be losing a large piece of income."
A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, Mr. Hershey has been playing on Broadway since the late 1960's -- "I have a great future behind me," he likes to say.
He doesn't like the prospect of being out of work too long, but he says he is much better off than many others on strike.
"The future of Broadway doesn't matter to my personal security," he said. "At the age I am, I have freelance work, I have the City Ballet, I have a pension. But I've been very very very lucky. Not everyone is like me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE MUSICIAN -- Lowell Hershey has been in the "Phantom of the Opera" orchestra since the show opened. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); THE CARPENTER -- William Ngai, a Broadway carpenter for 20 years, says he keeps his ears open to learn about available odd jobs. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); THE ACTRESS -- Capathia Jenkins wonders what will happen to her first big role, performing Burt Bacharach songs in "The Look of Love." (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC (92%); CASINOS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); THEATER (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CHRISTMAS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) THEATER; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; MCKINLEY, JESSE; JENKINS, CAPATHIA; NGAI, WILLIAM; HERSHEY, LOWELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



321 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In Birmingham, Ala.; 
Shedding the Reputation of a Steel City

BYLINE:  By AMY ZIPKIN; This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

 BODY:
Though long known as the Pittsburgh of the South, Birmingham is no longer synonymous with steel. Over the last decade, it has lured foreign automobile manufacturers and made a transition to a service economy.
 Mercedes-Benz is in the middle of a $600 million expansion of its plant just outside suburban Vance to produce the next generation of sport utility vehicles. Honda Motor, the other recent arrival, has announced a $425 million project to add 1.1 million square feet to its plant in Lincoln. The regional banking industry is strong, ranking No. 6 nationally in banking assets. 
 South of the city, near the I-280/459 corridor, HealthSouth, the nation's largest chain of rehabilitation hospitals, is spending $225 million to build an all-digital hospital. Nearby, BellSouth's computer operations are having a $60 million expansion. And last year, the University of Alabama at Birmingham broke ground on a $90 million biomedical research center.
"Sometimes, it's easy to overlook Birmingham because of past perceptions," said Timothy A. Lewis, head of a local technology-consulting firm. He says out-of-town clients sometimes express surprise to see hills and trees instead of steel mills when they walk off the plane.

THE AIRPORT
"It's misnomer to say Birmingham International Airport," said Timothy Taylor of Harbert Management Consulting, a venture capital firm. That is because the runways are too short to gas up planes for nonstop overseas flights, though a handful go to Mexico. That should change sometime in 2004 when one runway is lengthened 2,000 feet.
Until then, travelers to faraway destinations, including the West Coast, will have to use the hubs. When there is a choice, Alton B. Parker Jr., a partner in the law firm of Spain & Gillon, favors using Houston and Cincinnati over Atlanta, where, he says, the delays are longer.
Mr. Taylor says that with carry-on bags, he generally clears security at the Birmingham airport in 30 minutes or less. Regulars give the airport high marks for a quick 10-minute drive to downtown, easy access to parking at $8 a day and rental cars on the first-floor parking deck.

HOTELS
"Birmingham is underserved with major business and convention hotels and overserved with business-traveler-in-a-box hotels," Mr. Parker said. There are a few standouts. 
CROWN PLAZA BIRMINGHAM-THE REDMONT (205 324-2101, $99-$139), provides all rooms with high-speed Internet access and data-port telephones and runs a complimentary airport shuttle. In April, it will open a short-course driving range on the roof and a bar in the adjacent penthouse. 
The TUTWILER (205 322-2100, $99-$159), named after the early 20th-century classic that was razed in 1974, endures in a renovated apartment building of the same vintage. Paintings by local artists hang in the hallways. Rooms feature high-speed Internet access and two-line speakerphones with data ports. A favorite of visiting dignitaries and celebrities, the Tutwiler has had Stevie Wonder and Dan Rather as guests.
The BIRMINGHAM MARRIOTT (205 968-3775, $149) offers easy access to the I-280/459 corridor, though Mr. Parker says the rush-hour traffic can be difficult for travelers who have appointments downtown.

RESTAURANTS
The HIGHLANDS BAR AND GRILL (205 939-1400, $125 for dinner for two, including wine and tip) has a homey atmosphere, with old French posters on the walls and oysters shucked in front of patrons. The locals beat the crowds by ordering dishes like sauteed crawfish and baked grits with country ham and wild mushrooms at the bar.
The BOTTEGA RESTAURANT (205 939-1000, $85) has a 40-foot-high ceiling and Italian cuisine with hints of Greek and North African influences. If you are in a hurry, you can order pizza or sandwiches at the BOTTEGA CAFE (205 933-2001, $50) next door.
At the HOT AND HOT FISH CLUB(205 933-5474, $110, a favorite spring menu item is shad roe wrapped in smoked bacon and served with grits on bare-limestone tables. Mr. Taylor recommends saving room for the homemade doughnuts with chocolate icing.

ENTERTAINMENT
The BIRMINGHAM CIVIL RIGHTS INSTITUTE (205 328-9696) chronicles the nation's civil rights struggles and the city's role in them. If you are planning ahead, a $51 million entertainment complex that includes the BARBER MOTORSPORTS PARK and the BARBER VINTAGE MOTORSPORTS MUSEUM (205 699-7275 after mid-March) opens on May 16. The first weekend will feature the Barber Motorsports 250 at the Park Grand American Rolex Sports Car Series. High-octane executives can pay $1,600 for a one-day course on navigating a Porsche 911 at speeds of more than 100 miles an hour around the track. In July, an off-road trek in a Porsche Cayenne will be added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The McWane Center, a science and children's museum, has stimulated interest in renovation in Birmimgham. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (87%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (70%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (66%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (65%); LAWYERS (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (72%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (57%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (56%); BIRMINGHAM INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (72%); HMC (NYSE) (72%); 7267 (TSE) (72%); HLS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (57%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (57%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (57%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: ZIPKIN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (70%) BIRMINGHAM (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



322 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Concerns About Economy And War Send Stocks Down

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell more than 2 percent yesterday to their lowest level since October as concerns about a war with Iraq, slowing economic growth and a plunge in financial stocks dragged the market lower.
 These same forces are pushing bond prices higher and interest rates even lower as investors seek shelter in the Treasury market. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.57 percent yesterday, matching the 44-year low reached in October. The 1.33 percent yield on the Treasury's two-year note is the lowest since the early 1950's. 
 The Treasury yields could mean that mortgage rates, which were at four-decade lows last week, could fall even further, providing one bright spot in an economic outlook that has been clouding up as uncertainty has slowed spending and buying decisions by consumers and companies.
The decline in financial stocks started when a top Federal Reserve official raised questions about the financial viability of the nation's two biggest government-sponsored mortgage agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if there was a sudden financial crisis.
Shares of Fannie Mae plunged $4.35, or 6.9 percent, to $58.93, while Freddie Mac's stock fell $3.20, or 5.9 percent, to $50.80. Both were among the biggest percentage losers in the S.& P. 500 index. A broad index of financial stocks fell almost 4 percent.
William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, had made similar comments about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in August. But the stocks did not move much in response then. Yesterday's sell-off may be another confirmation of how the current environment has made investors ready to abandon stocks at the hint of any bad news.
When asked about the market response yesterday in comparison to August, Franklin D. Raines, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, said on CNBC that "the only reason is the markets are jittery and any time someone says, 'Oh, there's risk,' the markets are reacting."
Worries about a war with Iraq have increased as the standoff between the United States and France, Germany and Russia made it more probable that the United States would go to war without the support of all its major allies.
In addition, investors may be losing confidence that a fast victory for the United States against Iraq will open the way for the stock market to rebound. 
The report on Friday that showed the nation lost 308,000 jobs in February has forced economists to cut their growth estimates for the year. And the rift with allies over Iraq may mean the aftermath of a war will not provide the kind of geopolitical certainty the stock market may need to rally.
The worry about the economy and the geopolitical uncertainty is also undermining the dollar, which fell yesterday to $1.1045 against the euro, from $1.101 Friday, and 116.94 yen from 116.99. So far this year, the dollar is down 5 percent against the euro and 1.6 percent against the yen.
But like lower interest rates, a weaker dollar, without a collapse, could be good for the American economy. The weaker dollar makes American exports cheaper abroad and it gives domestic manufacturers an edge against foreign imports.
The Dow finished the day down 171.85 points, or 2.2 percent, at 7,568.18. That is the lowest close for the Dow since Oct. 10 and just 282 points above the five-year low reached Oct. 9.
The S.& P. 500-stock index closed off 21.41 points, or 2.6 percent, at 807.48, its lowest close since Oct. 10 and 31 points above its five-and-a-half-year low on Oct. 9.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 26.92 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,278.37, its lowest close since Feb. 13. The index hit a more than six-year low of 1,114.11 on Oct. 9. The Nasdaq has been holding up because information technology stocks, including Ciena, Yahoo, JDS Uniphase, and eBay, have been among the better performers since the October low for the Nasdaq.
Among other stocks that tumbled yesterday was Bristol-Myers Squibb, which fell 29 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $22.51. In an effort to correct what it described as "errors and inappropriate accounting," the company reduced revenue from 1999 through 2001 by about $2.5 billion and operating earnings by about $900 million.
UnumProvident, an insurer, plunged $4.61, or 36.6 percent, to $8, after Moody's Investors Service said it might lower the insurer's credit rating to noninvestment grade, or junk bond status. UnumProvident, which provides disability, life and long-term care insurance, said last month that the Securities and Exchange Commission was reviewing its accounting.
In a speech in Washington, Mr. Poole said that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae, which are government sponsored enterprises, known as G.S.E.'s, could "create a massive problem in the credit markets" because of the mistaken perception that they are backed by the federal government and the low amount of capital they hold in reserve. Mr. Poole suggested that the implied federal backing could be removed by eliminating the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to borrow from the Treasury. He suggested an increase in their reserves over time.
Mr. Raines said that Fannie Mae had already addressed Mr. Poole's concerns in 2000, in part by putting into effect "a liquidity plan as requested by the Treasury that allows Fannie Mae to continue operating for 90 days or more without access to the market."
In a statement, Freddie Mac said that "while it is true that the absolute percentage of minimum capital we are required to hold is lower than that for banks and other insured depositories, Freddie Mac's minimum capital is significantly greater than banks' relative to the credit risks that G.S.E.'s and banks take."
In the Treasury market, the yield on the 10-year note fell to 3.57 percent, from 3.65 percent on Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 19/32, to 102 16/32.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.733	99.479	High Rate	1.055	1.030	Investment Rate	1.077	1.053	Low Rate	1.01%	1.00%	Median Rate	1.05%	1.02%	Total applied for	$41,893,507	$48,210,354	Accepted	$21,754,672	$22,550,314	Noncompetitive	$1,519,142	$1,193,236	

Both issues are dated March 13. The three-month bills mature on June 12, and the six-month bills on Sept. 11.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange watched yesterday as financial stocks helped drag the major markets lower. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C12) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C12) Graph: "Turn for the Worse"The stocks of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac tumbled yesterday after questions were raised about whether their capital reserves are sufficient. Graph tracks Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac share prices since Jan.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TERRORISM (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) ;FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FANNIE MAE; FREDDIE MAC; EUROPEAN UNION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (57%) ;POOLE, WILLIAM; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%) IRAQ; EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



323 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Maumere Journal; 
On an Indonesian Island, a Reverence for Tolerance

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: MAUMERE, Indonesia 

 BODY:
Until recently, the poor and largely Catholic island of Flores was considered immune from the often-violent clashes between Muslims and Christians that have occurred in other parts of Indonesia.
 But that all changed last year when a mob came close to attacking a mosque in the capital, Maumere. 
 A seaman was convicted of desecrating the wafer during a Roman Catholic Mass, a crime for which he was sentenced to eight years. Somehow, word got around that the man was a Muslim and that was enough to ignite the mob's passions. Violence was averted at the last minute by the intervention of the Catholic priests. 
To ease the tensions, which appear to be as much a product of poverty and provocation by the local military as anything else, the priests at the Roman Catholic seminary here say they have redoubled their efforts to stress forbearance.
Certainly, a recent philosophy lesson at the seminary was devoted to the work of Max Scheler, a German thinker who wrote about the need for believers in one religion to understand the values of other faiths. 
For the trainee priests, where a majority of Roman Catholics surround a tiny minority of Muslims, tolerance is not a new message.
But they are hearing it more urgently than ever before. 
"Some of my relatives are Muslims," said the Rev. Philipus Tule, the director of the St. Paul Major Seminary, who grew up in Flores and recently completed a doctorate in the anthropology of religion at the Australian National University in Canberra. "We inherited the same land and we still celebrate local customs."
"We even pray for our Muslim relatives," he continued. "It is a very advanced theology. I started to do that when I studied Islamic theology and when I understood other believers had the same aim: searching for God."
Catholicism arrived in 1914, when fathers from the German-based Society of the Divine Word landed on the coast of Flores and pushed into the malaria-filled mountainous hinterland. They succeeded -- where their Jesuit colleagues had failed in the previous century -- in converting almost everyone, leaving only scattered Muslim villages and some followers of local pagan beliefs.
In Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, where there is also a significant Christian minority of about 10 percent, Flores retains the greatest concentration of Roman Catholics, about 1.1 million people.
Pope Paul VI visited Flores in 1967, and the current pope came in 1989 to conduct a Mass at the Maumere stadium. Sukarno, the nation's first leader after independence, was exiled by the Dutch here, and wrote movingly about the common values of the Catholics and the Muslims. 
Currently, 700 students, almost all of them from the island, are studying at the seminary, which was founded in 1937. Like their predecessors, some will become pastors in other parts of the world, including the United States and Latin America. Others will stay behind, to serve as diocesan priests or as missionaries. 
Because Flores lacks the minerals, timber and oil of most of the rest of Indonesia, the island is the nation's poorest. Crops grow, but the prices for cocoa and cashew nuts are low. Some of the villagers who scratch a living from the fields here look as destitute as people from some of the most devastated places of sub-Saharan Africa. They have barely enough food, and not much else.
The priests and sisters from the Holy Spirit order say they spend much of their time dealing with social issues that the government ignores.
Sister Eustochia Nata, born in Flores 60 years ago, is one of the most active. She has taken things into her own hands, in part, she said, because of the failure of the World Bank to live up to its promises of easing poverty on the island.
Bank officials had asked her on a variety of occasions to work with their projects, but she refused.
"The last time they came to me, I said, 'What percentage of your money goes to the poor people and what percentage goes to operational?' " she recalled. "They didn't reply and never contacted me again."
Instead, three years ago, she founded an interfaith human rights group called Truk 4. She trains young members on a variety of social issues, including encouraging rape victims to report their cases to the police.
The influence of the priests also reaches beyond the churches and the classrooms. 
They have organized a new radio station, Radio Sonia, run by young journalists who left the government station. In recent days, the station has spearheaded an anti-Iraq-war drive that calls on listeners to send small packets of rice -- as a symbol of peace, not war -- to the American ambassador in Jakarta. 
The Rev. Paul Budi Kleden, who returned recently to Flores after 13 years studying and serving as a priest in Europe, writes a column in the island's largest circulation newspaper, Pos Kupang. He recently wrote against the eight-year sentence handed down to the seaman for desecrating the wafer. 
"I don't agree with such a long sentence," Father Paul said.
On the other hand, he said, he tried to understand the motivations of the youths who wanted to attack the mosque.
"The people have lost economic possibilities, they have lost participation in politics," he said. "Religion is the only place where they have some space. If that is taken away they are very angry."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Philipus Tule, the director of the seminary on the isalnd of Flores, which has the greatest concentration of Catholics in Indonesia.; Roman Catholic students reading the Bible at the St. Paul Major Seminary in Maumere, Indonesia, where tolerance is being preached with a new urgency since a mob came close to attacking a mosque last year. (Photographs by Kemal Jufri/Imaji Press, for The New York Times) Map of Indonesia highlighting Maumere: Priests in Maumere are putting a new emphasis on forbearance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); SENTENCING (76%); LITIGATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); RIOTS (73%); MALARIA (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) ISLAM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (54%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) INDONESIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) INDONESIA; FLORES (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



324 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
OPEC to Continue Policy Of Supplying Oil as Needed
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to announce at its meeting in Vienna today that it will continue to supply as much oil as the markets need, essentially an affirmation of what it has been doing for months now, although with limited success.
 Most of the 10 voting OPEC members are now pumping as much oil as they can, but prices have stayed high. In New York, crude oil for April delivery fell 51 cents, to $37.27 a barrel. Market Place. Page C10. 

Ford Reviews Move on Advertising
Ford Motor confirmed that it was reviewing a decision by its chief operating officer, Nicholas V. Scheele, to further consolidate its advertising with the WPP Group of London. As part of a new arrangement, some reviews for Ford ad accounts would be closed to outside competition. But the arrangement apparently ran afoul of some of Ford's procedures for allowing a single supplier to monopolize a business relationship. C9.

Merrill Unit Changing TV Channels
Starting next week, Merrill Lynch's brokerage unit will provide Bloomberg Television to desktop computers instead of CNBC. C3.

Bush to Give OSHA More Power
The Bush administration is to announce today a series of policy changes that it says will give OSHA more power to crack down on companies that flout workplace safety rules. A1.

The Supreme Court ruled that some workers who have noncancerous asbestos-related disease can recover damages based on their fear of eventually developing cancer. A17.

A Mediator Appointed for Strike
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg summoned Broadway musicians and producers to Gracie Mansion for round-the-clock negotiations and appointed a mediator to help resolve the strike that has closed all but one big musical. A1.

Marketers Say Ads Ran by Mistake
Kraft Foods and Procter & Gamble said commercials for two of their products appeared Saturday on "The Savage Nation" on MSNBC by mistake. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

CBS may move men's college basketball tournament games to cable channels like TNN and Nickelodeon if there is a war. D1.

Drug Can Blunt Peanut Allergies
An experimental drug, taken once a month, can blunt peanut allergies, recent research shows. The future of the drug, made by Tanox of Houston, is uncertain, however. A1.

AstraZeneca said United States prosecutors and consumer protection officials were investigating its marketing of the ulcer drug Prilosec and its successor Nexium. C3.

Paper Company Officials Charged
The chief executive of American Tissue, a failed paper company, the Arthur Andersen auditor who handled its books, and several other executives were charged in federal court with accounting fraud. C4.

Deutsche Telekom Posts Big Loss
Deutsche Telekom said that it had lost 24.6 billion euros ($27.1 billion) in 2002, the biggest annual loss in European corporate history. "We are well aware of the scale of the figure," said Kai-Uwe Ricke, left, Deutsche Telekom's chief executive since November, in a statement that accompanied the results. World Business, Section W.

Software Pioneer Resigns in Protest
Mitchell D. Kapor, a software pioneer and civil liberties activist, resigned from the board of Groove Networks after learning the company's software was being used by the Pentagon to develop the Total Information Awareness domestic surveillance system. C7.

Concerns Over Passenger Screening
A new system for airline passenger screening has caused concerns about invasion of privacy. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,568.18 down 171.85Nasdaq composite -- 1,278.37 down 26.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.57% down 0.08The euro -- $1.1045 up 0.0035The dollar -- 116.94 yen down 0.05 Graph tracks Ford Motor's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CARTELS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); PAPER MILLS (86%); PAPER MFG (86%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (84%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); PAPER & PACKAGING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); CANCER (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); FOOD ALLERGIES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); ASBESTOS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); DAMAGES (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (64%); MUSIC (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); BASKETBALL (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (61%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%); ALLERGIES (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (52%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WPP PLC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (57%); WPP (LSE) (57%); AZN (STO) (54%); AZN (NYSE) (54%); AZN (LSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (53%); DTE (FRA) (50%); DTE (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); AUSTRIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



325 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: Instant Messaging Leaves School for Office 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Instant messaging, long associated with teenagers staying up late to chat online with friends, is moving into the workplace with an impact that has started to rival e-mail and the cellphone.
 Less intrusive than a phone call and more immediate than e-mail, instant messaging is finding users far more quickly than e-mail did when it was first introduced, according to Forrester Research, a technology research firm in Cambridge, Mass. In the last year alone, Forrester said, the number of instant messages has grown by more than 50 percent, so that nearly one-third of American adults are now IM-ing, as it is called, with their children, clients, colleagues and each other. 
"It really is instant," said Nancy Elieff, a realtor in South Pasadena, Calif., who recently began using instant messaging to stay in touch with her children in college. "You don't have to wonder if they're going to get your message, when they're going to get your message, if they're going to write you back. It's really now." 
The growth is driven in part by the availability of free IM software on the Internet, as companies like Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo use it to lure customers to their other services.
In addition, the first generation to grow up with instant messaging is bringing it with them into the workplace, unable to conceive of life without it.
Partly as a result, a technology whose hallmarks have been smiley face icons, willful misspelling and an encyclopedia of acronyms (BEG = big evil grin, POS = parent over shoulder) is being hailed as a new productivity tool by grown-up operations like Wall Street investment banks and the Navy.
At the same time, some companies are seeking to clamp down on the technology, which allows employees to message several dozen friends while gazing into their computer screens. Some companies limit IM use to within the enterprise, and keep records of the typed conversations that would otherwise disappear into the ether, casting what some avid IM users see as a pall over the free-wheeling nature of the medium.
To users, IM software typically shows a "buddy list" of friends and colleagues who are online at any given moment. By clicking on a name displayed in a small box on the computer screen, the user can type a message that pops onto the recipient's screen seconds after it is sent -- and get one back just as fast. Most IM conversations are one-to-one, but it is also easy to include several people. As the silent conversation unspools, each party can easily engage in unrelated activities -- often including other IM conversations.
Many IM users rave about the ability to do different things at their desks while also engaging in a continuing electronic conversation. But they say it is really the notion of "presence," of being in constant peripheral contact with the cast of characters that defines one's life, that makes IM such a powerful, intimate -- and potentially burdensome -- form of communication.
"IM-ing takes many of the virtues of e-mail and lowers the psychological costs of communication still further," said James E. Katz, a professor of communications at Rutgers University and a co-author of "Social Consequences of Internet Use" (M.I.T. Press, 2002). "It is extremely casual and easy, but in many ways it is more demanding."
The latest in a string of technologies that conspire to demand faster responses at more hours of the day, instant messaging quickens the pace and broadens the volume of communication for many of its users. More than pagers, cellphones or e-mail, it provides the ability to broadcast an almost constant online presence, particularly with the spread of broadband Internet connections that enable users to always be connected.
In college dormitories, where such connections are prevalent, it has become common for a student to simply enter an "away" message on his IM software that indicates when he is not in front of his computer. That way, instant-message correspondents can still send messages and assume they will be read upon the recipients' return.
"When I go to bed I just put my 'I'm sleeping' message on," said Nora Keomurjian, 20, a student at Rutgers who on more than one occasion has found herself forced to winnow her buddy list when it hit the 200-person limit. "When I'm at work I say, 'I'm at work.' "
Others take a more whimsical approach: "My away message is presently: 'I'm out on a violent rampage. I'll be back at 6,' " Joshua Elieff, a sophomore at the University of California at Santa Barbara, said in an instant message. (His mother prefers it when he is "Out slaying dragons.")
Ms. Keomurjian, an intern this semester at a chemical company that blocks the use of instant message software, said she had been distressed at being cut off from the nearly 200 people on her "buddy list" during the day. She does not believe it would hurt her job performance to exchange snippets of conversation with friends during free moments in the workday, she said. And she believes it would be helpful to be able to communicate with colleagues via instant messaging, where the inherent informality makes it easier to joke or express a degree of individuality that might not otherwise surface in a work setting.
"You say things through IM that you wouldn't dare say in face-to-face contact or even on the telephone where you can hear each other's voice," Ms. Keomurjian said. "Between colleagues I think it's great because it helps you establish a relationship where you might be too shy in person."
Unlike e-mail, which caught on widely only after corporations began training employees to use it, instant messaging is infiltrating the workplace from the bottom up, by way of employees themselves. Often people download free software to stay in touch with friends or family, and find themselves using it to communicate with work colleagues as well.
Timothy Lim, an associate at J. P. Morgan Chase, said instant messaging helped him establish better working relationships with colleagues in London. Previously, he would wait until a regularly scheduled conference call to ask questions. Now, he said, "we IM all the time."
BeLynda Lee-Jensen, a product marketing coordinator at Sharp Microelectronics, said instant-messaging software helped her negotiate sales, because she can be using IM with a colleague while on a conference call with a distributor.
"I can say via IM, 'I don't believe Intel is at that cost,' or 'They're not telling the truth about this,' " Ms. Lee-Jensen said. "Stuff you wouldn't want to say to this person on the telephone but what you're thinking in your head."
Ms. Lee-Jensen said she had also been using instant messaging to communicate with her husband, who has been in Japan for three weeks, rather than talk on the phone, only in part because it's cheaper: "I like it because I can type something quick and then do something else," she said. "I guess it depends how long you've been married."
Deborah Woodall, an administrative assistant in Sharp's Camas, Wash., office, said she liked IM's because they're harder to ignore. " 'Oh, I didn't get that e-mail,' How many times have you heard that?" Ms. Woodall said. "There's no excuse with this."
In what has become a common pattern, after seeing how some employees were using free IM software for their jobs, Sharp's information technology department recently installed I.B.M.'s secure instant-messaging software companywide.
Already, almost one-quarter of American employees use instant messaging at work, for the most part informally, according to a recent survey by Osterman Research, compared with just 8 percent two years ago. Analysts said the medium would be growing even faster except that the major providers -- AOL, Microsoft and Yahoo -- do not allow their software to work with the others. As a result, many users have multiple programs running at once. Trillian, a program that links all three -- along with ICQ, pioneering IM software for the Internet now owned by AOL -- is an increasingly popular alternative, although it still requires users to have separate accounts on the other services.
Still, as people who already have IM software urge other friends and colleagues to get it so that they can add them to their list of contacts, its growth has spread like a virus.
"It was one of the first things I did when I got here," instant messaged Andrew Stein, 24, of his job as a technical support employee in his family's business. As Mr. Stein, of South Brunswick, N.J., answered a reporter's questions he said he was simultaneously instant messaging with a friend in England and one a few miles away about the plight of the Pittsburgh Steelers. "It's more efficient."
Employers may take a different view. Perhaps more than any other digital technology, instant messaging enables users to be in one place physically while mentally and emotionally participating in an entirely different universe. Instant messaging relationships have been known to break up marriages and spark new ones among subscribers to AOL, where the seductive technology was first introduced.
Some employers are blocking instant messaging entirely. Others are rushing to install more secure versions of instant-messaging software that in some cases limit contacts to within the company. AOL, Microsoft, I.B.M. and others are competing to provide such services, while also hoping to find fresh ways of making money from their large user bases.
David Beckman, a lawyer at Beckman & Hirsch, a firm in Burlington, Iowa, said he installed instant messaging with some trepidation because he needed to stay in contact with an employee who was working from a different location.
"I have teenagers," Mr. Beckman said. "I came at instant messaging like this was going to be horrible. But honestly, it's the most productive thing I've ever seen."
Clients, Mr. Beckman said, appreciate receiving an instant reply to a question, rather than playing phone tag, and he likes being able to see which of his partners and employees are available at any given time.
And the etiquette of instant messaging does not require the preliminary niceties that eat up time on the phone: "One thing about the telephone is the first thing you're supposed to say is "how's the wife and kids?" Mr. Beckman said.
"With instant messaging you can just say, 'I want this.' "
Not everyone is so enthralled with that. Shelia McAllister-Greve, 39, said she felt more pressure to respond immediately to questions from supervisors and colleagues in her public relations job at a community college since she let it be known that she had installed an instant-message program.
"There's less time to prepare your answer," said Ms. McAllister-Greve, who has taken to using the software's blocking feature to make herself appear offline to people who would otherwise bombard her with messages. "If it were an e-mail, even if it was 10 minutes, you'd have time to find the information. But with an instant message, there's less patience."
Nor does Ms. McAllister-Greve enjoy the often disjointed cadence of instant-message conversations, where one person is often typing about a different subject as the other answers a previous question.
Whatever the downsides, the medium is proving immensely popular.
Companies like Siemens ICN are scurrying to expand on the concept of online presence with tools that will allow employees within a company to see whether someone is on the phone as well. Online business meetings are becoming common, as is the acceptance that participants will be instant messaging with each other rather than devoting their full attention to the proceedings.
And in the crowded workplaces so common at Wall Street investment banks "where you sit on top of each other so you can't have an audible conversation about something you're not supposed to, it's pretty useful," said one banker, who admitted to having recently learned that TTFN means "ta ta for now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It really is instant," said Nancy Elieff of South Pasadena, Calif., who recently began using IM to stay in touch with her children in college. (Stephanie Diani for The New York Times); BeLynda Lee-Jensen of Sharp Microelectronics said instant-messaging helped her negotiate sales and was a good way to talk with her husband. (John Gress for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Graph: "Instant Gratification"Instant messaging is rapidly becoming one of the more popular means of electronic communication. Graph tracks Percent of Americans who own or use each of the following technologies: INSTANT MESSAGINGCELLULAR PHONESE-MAIL(Source: Forrester Research)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSTANT MESSAGING (96%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; LABOR 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC; MICROSOFT CORP; AOL TIME WARNER INC; YAHOO INC 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



326 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: A LATIN VOTE; 
Chile Feels the Weight of Its Security Council Seat

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BRASILIA, March 10 

 BODY:
From the moment it joined the United Nations Security Council on Jan. 1, Chile has followed a strategy of trying to stay out of the line of fire on the Iraq crisis, hoping that the five permanent members can reach a compromise that would spare smaller nations from having to take sides.
 But with that outcome now unlikely, President Ricardo Lagos finds himself pressed by the United States on one side and by deepening domestic opposition to any war on the other. 
 Over the weekend, Mr. Lagos described Chile's position as "equidistant" between the United States and France. While indicating that Chile would not oppose military action against Iraq under certain circumstances, he argued that a March 17 deadline was too soon and that "more clarity" was needed in defining what missiles and chemical weapons Iraq needed to destroy. 
"The destruction of the weapons could take two, three or four months," said Mr. Lagos, the first Socialist to govern Chile since Salvador Allende was overthrown in an American-supported coup in 1973. He made the remark in a local radio interview on Saturday. If Saddam Hussein complies with those conditions, "then it is possible to avoid war," he said.
Polls indicate there is virtually no sympathy in Chile or elsewhere in Latin America for the United States' stance. But influential figures like Juan Gabriel Valdes, a former foreign minister of Chile who is currently president of the Chilean Senate's Foreign Relations Commission, have also sharply criticized the way the Bush administration has been lobbying the Lagos government.
Chile is willing to be "a partner, but not a lackey," Mr. Valdes, who is also the father of Chile's ambassador to the United Nations, said in a radio interview early this month. "Talking with the U.S. is like talking to an elephant. It is a big, heavyweight country, generally with bad manners, and it considers Latin America to be its backyard."
President Bush has called Mr. Lagos several times in recent weeks, Chilean officials said. In addition, the White House sent a special envoy, a move that appears to have backfired.
Chile is in a delicate position because it signed a free trade agreement in December with the United States. The treaty has not been ratified by the United States Congress, though.
Reports that Chilean opposition on Iraq would jeopardize the treaty have appeared frequently in the Chilean press this month. In his Saturday radio interview, Mr. Lagos sought to rebut the notion that the Bush administration would exact retribution.
"The free trade treaty is not a present that the United States is giving to Chile or that Chile is giving to the United States," he said. "It has been done because it is to the benefit of both countries. Therefore, to link these two things is profoundly mistaken."
But economic growth has slowed since Mr. Lagos took office three years ago, and warcould plunge Chile into recession. The government has also been criticized for seeking membership on the Security Council in the first place, putting Chile in a position that could hurt its interests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); COUPS (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



327 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Seeks Aid to Finance Antitax Stand 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 10 

 BODY:
Continuing his recent march to the right, Gov. George E. Pataki has sent out letters requesting donations from some of his most loyal supporters to help him disseminate his antitax message "without distortion from the elite, liberal media."
 The request for money from Mr. Pataki's campaign comes as the Republican governor is drawing fire for his budget plan from unions and liberal Democrats. Several powerful unions have begun broadcasting ads attacking him for cutting back state support for schools and health-care programs. 
 For his part, the governor, who ran as a nonpartisan moderate last year, has pledged to hold the line on income taxes as he struggles to close an $11.5 billion budget shortfall, arguing that a tax rise will only drive jobs out of the state.
The letter requesting donations seems to hint that the governor wants to mount his own advertising campaign to make his case for keeping taxes down, but his chief spokeswoman, Lisa Dewald Stoll, said he had no such plans. She said the letter, from Friends of Pataki, was a run-of-the-mill solicitation similar to those the campaign sent to regular donors every spring.
"This is much ado about nothing," she said. "We are not planning any ad campaign. This is to support the governor's ongoing political efforts, whatever they may be."
Some political strategists said, however, that the letter appeared to be aimed at the core conservative constituency of the Republican Party.
The letter lays out the governor's argument that high taxes are the surest way to weaken the economy. Then Mr. Pataki warns his supporters that some liberal leaders are determined to raise taxes anyway.
"These liberals believe the only solution is to raise taxes, even if it means killing jobs," Mr. Pataki said in the letter. "They would rather ask the people of New York to do with less -- less take-home pay and fewer jobs -- then ask state government to do with less.
"And we cannot take these liberals lightly. They are powerful, well funded and committed to do whatever it takes to protect their special interests."
The governor goes on in the letter to invite supporters to join a group, the Governor's Trust, by giving $100. 
"With your financial support, I will be able to get my message out to New Yorkers directly -- without distortion from the elite liberal media -- and to fight on a level playing field with our opponents," the letter said.
During the 2002 campaign, Mr. Pataki rarely even mentioned that he is a Republican. Nor did he often overtly attack his opponents as being too liberal. Indeed, he embraced many health-care programs dear to liberal Democrats as his own and championed several bills the unions wanted. In return, he won the strong support of some of the state's staunchest Democrats among labor leaders.
This year, however, the governor has charted a much more conservative path. He has dug in his heels on the question of raising corporate and income taxes. He has given speeches across the state vowing to oppose "job-killing taxes." He has also rejected the idea of putting off tax cuts scheduled to take effect this year.
Instead, he has proposed cutting $1.2 billion from the aid the state provides to local school districts and curbing the natural growth in Medicaid costs by reducing services by $1 billion.
A coalition of labor unions has financed some hard-hitting ads that accuse Mr. Pataki of balancing the budget on the backs of students and poor people who depend on state-financed health programs. Some of the ads say a small tax increase on the wealthy would be a better way to balance the books.
Kieran Mahoney, the governor's top political strategist, said Mr. Pataki was not contemplating a counterattack. The governor has just won another four-year term and, if he sustains political damage from the attacks, has plenty of time to recover, he said. Mr. Mahoney likened the labor-backed ad campaign to a brilliant play called after a football game was over. "We already won," he said.
Another Republican pollster and strategist, John Zogby, said the tone of the fund-raising letter was further evidence that Mr. Pataki wanted to recast himself as a conservative Republican. He said the governor's shift appeared to be part of a strategy to help President Bush win New York next year, or at least force the Democrats to exhaust resources defending it. "I think the national campaign has begun," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LIBERAL MEDIA (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



328 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Telecommunications:Qualcomm Raises Chip Forecast 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Qualcomm Inc. raised its forecast yesterday for cellphone chip shipments in the current quarter, based on strong demand for its advanced chips that allow users to surf the Internet at high speeds. Shares of Qualcomm, however, fell 94 cents, or about 2.7 percent, to $34.24. 
Qualcomm, based in San Diego, said it expected to ship about 28 million phone chips during its fiscal second quarter ending on March 30, above its previous estimate of 27 million. Last year, the company shipped about 14 million units in the second quarter. The company also said it expected to ship 23 million to 25 million phone chips in the third quarter, up from 16 million a year before. While other companies have been hurt by the sluggish economy and lower industry spending, Qualcomm has managed to outperform its peers and post profits on the strength of its code division multiple access technology, the dominant wireless technology in American networks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); COMPUTER CHIPS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; SALES 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: QUALCOMM INC 

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



329 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Many Are Shut Out in High School Choice 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
More eighth graders than usual were shut out of their choices for high school next year because of greater competition and other factors, several principals and parent advocates said yesterday.
 Close to 100,000 eighth graders are seeking places in city high schools for the coming school year, officials of the Department of Education said, up from 92,000 in 2002. Several middle school principals said they were shocked to learn last week that dozens of their students had not been accepted by a single school. 
 "What happened this year makes a mockery of all the thought and time parents, students and schools expended," said the principal of a Manhattan middle school where most eighth graders were not accepted at any outside high school. "Our kids are devastated." 
New York's high school admission process is complicated. Unless students want to attend their neighborhood high schools -- many troubled -- they must list up to five choices on a standardized application form. This year, about 47,000 of the perhaps 100,000, or 47 percent, were admitted to one or more of their choices, the officials said.
That does not include a number of students who applied only to their neighborhood high schools, where admission is guaranteed. The Education Department could not provide that number yesterday, making it impossible to tell how many students who sought other options got none.
It is not unusual for up to 45 percent of students who apply to schools outside their neighborhood to be rejected by all their choices.
"This happens every March," said Clara Hemphill, who works at Advocates for Children, a nonprofit group, and has written a book called "New York City's Best Public High Schools: A Parent's Guide." "But what seems different this year is the volume of complaints."
The mother of an eighth grader in Washington Heights said she was shocked when her daughter, who has a 91 average at a good middle school, was not accepted at any outside high school.
"This has been quite a blow," the mother said in an e-mail message. "I mean, not even one school out of five choices?" She said their neighborhood high school, George Washington, was not an option because its poor performance had landed it in the "chancellor's district" for troubled schools.
Pamela Wheaton, who works with Ms. Hemphill at Advocates for Children, said the group had received many calls from parents of eighth graders who did not get into any of the schools they chose.
Education Department officials said the increased demand might be because three new specialized high schools opened this year, bringing the total to six. These schools accept only students who score high on a competitive examination. They said 25,000 students took the examination in December, up from 19,428 the previous year.
Some principals and parents theorized that the increase could also be attributed to the poor economy and to the fact that fewer families could afford private and parochial schools.
Another possible reason is that the Department of Education hired a new company to oversee the computerized acceptance process this year. Though department officials said no glitches occurred, several principals said there were many.
Linda Freebes, the principal of SS. Joachim and Anne School in Queens Village, said 65 of her students applied to public high schools and encountered many problems.
All the applications were initially rejected and returned because the computer did not recognize their school, because of a coding error.
But even after the problem was fixed, Ms. Freebes said, the results suggested something had gone wrong. Only 17 of her students were placed. Normally, she said, about 40 students are placed.
The city's high school system has several kinds of schools, each with its own selection process. The fiercest competition is for the specialized high schools: Stuyvesant, Bronx Science, Brooklyn Technical and three others that opened this year at Lehman, York and City Colleges. These are the schools that base selections on competitive examinations.
Other high schools base selections on other indications of merit, including grades, attendance and other test scores. Some choose their freshman classes by rankings on seventh-grade reading tests.
The first round of acceptance letters went out in the last 10 days. There will be two more rounds as students accepted at more than one school decide which one to attend, creating some openings.
There is also an appeals process for students who do not get their first choice. But several parents and principals said that Education Department officials told them the process might be different this year because Chancellor Joel I. Klein was reorganizing the system's administration.
"You used to be able to call the borough high school offices and sort it out with their people," Ms. Hemphill said. "But some of those offices are being dismantled as we speak. Nobody is sure what to do anymore." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



330 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: European Space Group Reports $330 Million Loss 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, March 10 

 BODY:
The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the largest aerospace group after Boeing, said today that a deep slump in its satellite-building and launching business was the main reason it had lost 299 million euros ($330 million) in 2002. EADS posted a profit of 1.4 billion euros ($1.55 billion) in 2001.
 To cut costs, the company said it would eliminate another 1,700 jobs in the satellite business, in addition to 1,600 job cuts already announced. 
 With telecommunications companies curtailing investments to preserve cash, few customers need the services of Espace, the EADS division that owns a major satellite maker, Astrium, and 25percent of Arianespace, the leading launcher of telecommunication satellites. 
Management at EADS is also concerned that France's and Germany's relations with the United States could sour, dampening the chances for military contracts from the United States. France owns 15 percent of EADS; DaimlerChrysler of Germany 30 percent and the French Lagardere Group 15 percent.
The company said operating losses at Espace rose 17 percent to 268 million euros ($296 million), from 222 million euros ($245 million) a year earlier. Revenue for all of EADS fell 3 percent last year, to 29.9 billion euros ($33 billion), from 30.7 billion euros ($33.9 billion).
The company's joint chief executives, Philippe Camus and Rainer Hertrich, said EADS was prepared to "weather a possible further deterioration of the business climate in 2003."
But the company, which has dual headquarters in Paris and Munich, also cautioned that predicting the future of the business remained tricky.
In addition to the problems in its space business, EADS also faces uncertainty at Airbus, with the airline industry in the worst downturn in its history and airlines losing billions of dollars each year.
EADS owns 80 percent of Airbus, which last year contributed nearly all of its operating profit. EADS repeated forecasts today that Airbus would deliver 300 aircraft this year, about the same as the 303 it delivered in 2002. Mike Turner, the chief executive of BAE Systems, which owns the remaining 20 percent of Airbus, suggested last month that Airbus might have to revise that figure down to about 280, the same number that its rival, Boeing, expects to deliver this year.
Shares of EADS fell more than 7 percent in Paris, where they closed at 6.50 euros ($7.17), the lowest since the company went public in 2000. The shares have lost a third of their value since January.
"I think there's a certain amount of whistling past the graveyard," said Daniel Solon, director of Avmark International, an aircraft consultancy.
Airbus, which is based in Toulouse, France, has been gnawing at Boeing's market share in recent years, and has begun building the Airbus A380, a 555-seat behemoth meant to eclipse Boeing's 747 jumbo jet.
But EADS cannot rely, as Boeing does, on military sales to offset the commercial aviation slowdown. 
To diversify EADS, its management has said it wants to raise the proportion of revenue from military sales to roughly a third over the long term by increasing its arms business in the United States; EADS receives a fifth of its revenue from military sales. 
Mr. Hertrich, addressing a news conference in Munich, said business in the United States had not yet suffered from the fallout over Iraq. But he acknowledged that penetrating the American market could become a "little bit more difficult."
Analysts said Airbus also stood to suffer from the fallout of a war in Iraq, both because a war would further worsen the airlines' plight and because the general economic situation in Europe and the United States might weaken further.
Mr. Solon said that while Airbus had solid customers among American airlines like JetBlue and Northwest, it also had a significant number of jet orders on its books from airlines that have since entered bankruptcy protection, like United and US Airways.
Airbus may be able to keep those orders from disappearing, Mr. Solon said, but would still suffer if airlines and aircraft leasing companies told Airbus, "We don't want to cancel, but those planes we ordered for 2002, we'd rather have them in 2006."
EADS said today that it expected to return the satellite and rocket-launching divisions to profitability by 2004, assuming it could assemble two to three satellites a year at Astrium and launch five or six satellite-bearing Ariane rockets. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rainer Hertrich, left, and Philippe Camus of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, reported results in Munich yesterday. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); MARKET SHARE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); AIRLINES (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%) SPACE; SATELLITES; COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (98%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); BOEING CO (85%); LAGARDERE SCA (69%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (58%); ARIANESPACE SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENSE & SPACE 

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (98%); EAD (MCE) (98%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); MMB (PAR) (69%); BA (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (69%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (69%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336415 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNIT & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3764 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNITS & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS (58%)

PERSON: MIKE TURNER (58%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; CAMUS, PHILIPPE; HERTRICH, RAINER 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (87%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



331 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Telekom Posts Biggest Loss in Europe's History 

BYLINE:  By HUGH EAKIN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 10 

 BODY:
Deutsche Telekom said today that it had lost 24.6 billion euros ($27.1 billion) in 2002, the biggest annual loss in European corporate history.
 The company said it had also seen some hopeful signs in the fourth quarter, when revenue was up and its loss was much narrower than the year before, thanks to a strong performance by T-Mobile, its wireless unit. But analysts had been expecting even better results from T-Mobile, and disappointed investors bid down Deutsche Telekom's shares. 
 The main culprit in the immense annual loss was the sharply reduced value of investments the company made in the technology stock bubble of the late 1990's. Like Vivendi and France Telecom, which both posted losses last week in excess of 20 billion euros, Deutsche Telekom recognized the new market reality with enormous write-offs on those investments. All three companies changed chief executives last year. 
"We are well aware of the scale of the figure," said Kai-Uwe Ricke, Deutsche Telekom's chief executive since November, in a statement that accompanied the 2002 financial results. "We are in no way trying to gloss over this."
The company recorded 14.5 billion euros ($16 billion) in revenue in the fourth quarter, a 9 percent increase from the comparable period a year earlier. Its net loss fell to 100 million euros ($111 million), from 2.5 billion euros ($2.8 billion) a year ago. The company managed to reduce its total debt by 3 billion euros ($3.3 billion), to 61.1 billion euros ($67.6 billion).
"All in all, the fourth-quarter trend is quite positive," said Ralf Hallmann, an analyst for Bankgesellschaft Berlin. "The net loss figures, though historic, are much the same as they were after the third quarter."
T-Mobile, which Mr. Ricke ran before ascending to the top post, is the company's growth engine. It is adding subscribers at a brisk pace in Britain and, especially, the United States, and its revenue rose 29.5 percent in the fourth quarter, to 5.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion). 
Profits rose 31.9 percent in the quarter at the company's Internet service, T-Online, reaching 500 million euros ($553 million). The company's traditional cash cow, the T-Com fixed-line network business, managed a small increase in earnings. 
Still, the company's heavy debt, much of it run up to pay sky-high prices for new-generation digital wireless licenses and other technology bubble investments, is weighing on the company's share price. Deutsche Telekom sank to 9.15 euros, or $10.07 a share, a drop of about 9 percent.
"We are working with a very high debt level, and that frightens investors a lot," said Boris Boehm, a fund manager for Nordinvest in Hamburg, which has 1.4 million shares of Telekom.
The company has been selling some peripheral assets in recent months to reduce debt, notably six cable TV networks that fetched 1.73 billion euros ($1.9 billion) and real estate worth 300 million euros ($331 million). 
The company has also been talking with rivals about selling a star performer, the American unit of T-Mobile. Telekom bought the business, formerly called Voicestream, in 2001 for $40 billion. With a 42 percent gain in subscribers last year, it is the fastest-growing operator in the market. But it remains the smallest of the six national operators, and it is still losing money, though its operating results have been improving.
"T-Mobile USA could be a main source for this year's and next year's Ebitda," Mr. Hallmann said, referring to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization costs are counted.
"If subscription increases are as positive this year as in 2002, they could even become No. 5," he said.
The company held talks with Cingular Wireless last year about a merger with T-Mobile USA, but called them off in November when the two sides could not agree on valuation. Deutsche Telekom said today that it would continue to invest about 2 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in capital improvements to keep T-Mobile growing in the United States.
Deutsche Telekom did not offer any new forecast today for its results in 2003. But it promised shareholders that it would continue to reduce debt by cutting costs, improving cash flow and selling noncore assets and businesses. The chief financial officer, Karl-Gerhard Eick, said the company expected to sell about 2 billion euros' worth of real estate this year.
"The good signs are overlooked," Mr. Boehm said. "The company is on track to reducing its debt by another 12 billion euros this year. As rivals have died out, Telekom is in a sweet spot in the German market, and well positioned in new technologies. It could do well in a better economic environment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kai-Uwe Ricke, Deutsche Telekom's chief executive since November, said the company was aware of the large scale of its loss for last year. (Sean Gallup/Getty Images, left and right; Reuters, center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WIRELESS REGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%) COMPANY REPORTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (92%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (91%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%); VIVENDI (56%); LANDESBANK BERLIN HOLDING AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM 

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (92%); DTE (BIT) (92%); FTE (PAR) (91%); FTE (NYSE) (91%); FTE (BIT) (91%); VIV (PAR) (56%); VIV (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: EAKIN, HUGH; RICKE, KAI-UWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



332 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Withholds Approval for Nuclear Waste Storage on Indian Reservation 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
Federal regulators today blocked a proposal by utility companies to store high-level nuclear waste on an Indian reservation in Utah's western desert, citing dangers posed by a nearby Air Force training range.
 Private Fuel Storage, a consortium of eight electric utilities, had sought to store uranium rods from nuclear reactors in casks on the Skull Valley Goshute Reservation, 45 miles southwest of Salt Lake City, until a permanent storage complex could be built at Yucca Mountain in Nevada. Utah officials objected, raising a number of safety concerns, including the threat posed by military aircraft and earthquakes. 
 The Air Force flies thousands of training missions a year over the sprawling Utah Test and Training Range, near the reservation. 
"There is enough likelihood of an F-16 crash into the proposed facility that such an accident must be deemed credible," the Atomic Safety Licensing Board, an arm of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said in a 222-page opinion today.
As a result, the board said, it is withholding approval of the project.
The board said it might reconsider its decision if Private Fuel Storage, or P.F.S., could either persuade the Air Force to reduce the number of flights over the reservation or show that the concrete and steel casks where the waste would be stored could withstand an F-16 crash.
P.F.S. can also appeal the licensing board's decision to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, but it would be unusual for the commissioners to overrule the board.
At a hearing last year, P.F.S. argued that a pilot would be able to steer a plane away from the stored nuclear waste before any crash occurred. But the safety board proved unswayed today.
In a statement, the consortium said it was reviewing the decision.
"While we are disappointed with this initial partial decision, we continue to believe that our facility meets the federal regulations," said Scott Northard, project manager for the utilities. 
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, called the decision "a tremendous victory for safety and sensibility."
"I have never thought that this proposal was in the best interests of the citizens of Utah," Senator Hatch said, "and I think this decision bears that out."
The decision today was another reminder of a national problem: commercial nuclear power plants around the country are running out of space to store their spent reactor fuel. Indeed, storage pools at many plants are already full.
So the companies that make up P.F.S. sought to find a remote area where the radioactive waste could be stored until the Energy Department built a permanent storage dump at Yucca Mountain. The department hopes to open the Yucca Mountain complex by 2010, although that project still requires a license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and could be delayed.
The Skull Valley Band of Goshutes, an impoverished tribe with its reservation in the Utah desert, sought the economic benefits of the project and signed a deal with P.F.S. in 1997 to pursue the plan. The Skull Valley Band has about 120 members, but only about a fifth live on the reservation. Tribal officials hoped that the nuclear waste site could bring the others back.
The deal's provisions were confidential, and the amount of money to be paid the tribe was never officially disclosed.
"This was about getting cash for exploiting the safety of their neighbors," Gov. Michael O. Leavitt said.
Though opposing the project, the state could not veto it, because the Goshutes are a sovereign tribe.
The proposed storage center would essentially be an 820-acre concrete parking lot. On it would be rows of 4,000 casks with concrete and steel walls, two and a half feet thick, encasing a total of 40,000 metric tons of uranium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unless yesterday's decision by federal nuclear regulators is reversed, this warning on the edge of the Skull Valley Goshute Reservation, in Utah's western desert, will be moot. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (92%); NUCLEAR WASTE (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (67%) NUCLEAR WASTES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%); US AIR FORCE (83%) PRIVATE FUEL STORAGE (CONSORTIUM) 

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (97%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UTAH; YUCCA MOUNTAIN (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



333 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: As Japan's Economy Slips, a Sense Leader May Fall 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: KADOMA, Japan 

 BODY:
As he waited for an interview at a job center in this gritty corner of Japan's industrial heartland a few miles north of Osaka, Seiichi Okamoto looked as if he bore the weight of the world on his shoulders.
 It was not hard to see why: his six months of government benefits are running out, and every job opening he finds pays less than half of the $4,200 a month he earned fixing garage doors. Two of his three children now work, but he still has one child in school, a mortgage and car payments. 
 "It's my first time out of work, and losing the income is tough," said Mr. Okamoto, 49, an unemployed machinist. "I've looked at lots of jobs, but it's tough when you are competing against people in their 20's and 30's." 
Mr. Okamoto's plight, one heard of alarmingly often in Japan these days, is a siren's wail for the prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, and the political elite cloistered in Tokyo. 
As the government fumbles with formulas to jump-start the sagging economy, ordinary Japanese are inching closer to exasperation. This discontent, which simmers ever closer to the surface, threatens to bring down Mr. Koizumi and further erode support for the governing party.
"Most Japanese are of the feeling that we are all stuck together in this," said R. Taggart Murphy, a professor of political economy at Tsukuba University and co-author of "Japan's Policy Trap." 
"With Koizumi there was a hope," Professor Taggart said. "But now that has faded."
The soaring dissatisfaction with Mr. Koizumi's policies is startling, given the support he once enjoyed. Like President Reagan and his "Morning in America" campaign, Mr. Koizumi staked his job on halting his country's malaise when he came to power almost two years ago. 
He was hailed as Japan's great hope, someone willing to stare down the powerful and deeply entrenched constituencies. In response, his public approval ratings soared into the range of 80 percent and higher, even as he called on middle-class people to endure more pain, albeit briefly.
Recently those ratings have slumped to about 45 percent. What is worse, the prime minister's ratings among older Japanese, who have long supported the governing Liberal Democratic Party, have noticeably weakened, suggesting further declines ahead.
Mr. Koizumi's dwindling public support suggests that Japanese voters are concluding that the prime minister's no-pain, no-gain politics means that they get squeezed while the nation's big, heavily indebted, inefficient and loss-making businesses limp along without being forced to restructure. 
To make matters worse, Japan's unemployment rate sits at a record high, wages are sliding and consumer confidence is slipping. Japan's economy grew an anemic 0.5 percent last year, and even that was a "jobless recovery" similar to the one America experienced in the early 1990's. 
More and more, ordinary Japanese worry about their pensions and health care benefits, and they express skepticism that Mr. Koizumi can end four years of deflation.
Mr. Koizumi's mishandling of the economy has alienated many in the middle class. The prime minister is seen not only as unfairly distributing the economic pain, but also backtracking on his reform campaign through sometimes callous and misguided decisions. While being grilled in Parliament in February, he said that "it was no big deal" that he had broken his longtime pledge to cap deficit spending.
Later in February, after months of calling for a "bold deflation fighter," he tapped Toshihiko Fukui to become the next governor of the Bank of Japan, an establishment candidate whom many consider anything but bold. 
Whether Mr. Koizumi succumbed to pressure from Mr. Fukui's supporters or never meant to choose an aggressive central banker is unclear, but the result is the same: he has invited scorn for saying one thing and doing another.
As Mr. Koizumi undermines his reformist credentials and the country's economic woes mount, key constituencies are peeling away from the governing party. 
The first of those were urban voters, and in recent years the party has seen itself virtually shut out of power in large cities. Another, big business, has been hampered because weakened balance sheets have chewed into its contributions and political influence. Both groups had embraced Mr. Koizumi's promises of reform.
Now, with growing disaffection from voters and few signs of improvement in the economy, there is more talk of forcing Mr. Koizumi out this September, when he faces party elections. Traditionally the Liberal Democratic Party has backed a sitting prime minister for re-election as long as his popularity ratings are solid. With popular discontent bubbling, though, Mr. Koizumi is turning into a liability for his party and the country.
"I've already been working fewer shifts as the number of customers has declined, and now the owner is trying to attract more customers by cutting the prices of food and drinks," said Kimiko Sato, 47, a restaurant worker in Tokyo. "I used to like Koizumi because he was powerful and gave us hope that something might change, but he seems to have turned out like all of the other L.D.P. folks." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TRENDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



334 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: LIBERTY AND SECURITY; 
New Scale for Toting Up Lost Freedom vs. Security Would Measure in Dollars

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
Civil liberties and privacy may be priceless, but they may soon have a price tag.
 In an unusual twist on cost-benefit analysis, an economic tool that conservatives have often used to attack environmental regulation, top advisers to President Bush want to weigh the benefits of tighter domestic security against the "costs" of lost privacy and freedom. 
 "People are willing to accept some burdens, some intrusion on their privacy and some inconvenience," said John Graham, director of regulatory affairs at the White House Office of Management and Budget. "But I want to make sure that people can see these intangible burdens."
In a notice published last month, the budget office asked experts from around the country for ideas on how to measure "indirect costs" like lost time, lost privacy and even lost liberty that might stem from tougher security regulations. 
The budget office has not challenged any domestic security rules, and officials say they are only beginning to look at how they might measure costs of things like reduced privacy. But officials said they hoped to give federal agencies guidance by the end of the year. And even if many costs cannot be quantified in dollar terms, they say, the mere effort to identify them systematically could prompt agencies to look for less burdensome alternatives.
The issues are not always abstract. American universities are worried that ever-tighter scrutiny of foreign students will cause them to lose market share in foreign students to Australia, Canada and Europe. 
Airlines, meanwhile, are eager to increase use of advanced passenger screening systems. Civil rights advocates say the systems would single out some people with particular ethnic backgrounds, but they might also help business fliers whisk through security checkpoints as seemingly low-risk "trusted travelers."
Jarring as it may seem to assign a price on privacy or liberty, the idea has attracted an unusual array of supporters, including Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate and former presidential candidate, who said the approach might expose wrong-headed security regulations.
"As long as they're going to deal with monetary evaluations, I told them they should start asking about the cost of destroying democracy," said Mr. Nader, who lobbied Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the budget office director, on the issue. "If the value assigned to civil rights and privacy is zero, the natural thing to do is just wipe them out."
Lawyers at the American Civil Liberties Union also support the idea, as do some conservative Republicans who fret about "big government."
Skeptics abound, with some predicting that cost-benefit analysis will bog down domestic security decisions as badly as worries about the spotted owl once bogged down loggers in the Pacific Northwest.
"It may be a waste of time and resources," said Charles Pena, director of defense policy at the Cato Institute, a conservative research organization in Washington. "The last thing you want to do with homeland security is to get mired down in typical bureaucratic debates."
Supporters and critics alike say the effort could open up a new battlefront on domestic security.
The budget office has the power to challenge and sometimes to block regulations if they appear to fail the cost-benefit test.
And given the regulatory costs, whether in the form of mandatory spending on antiterrorist measures or lost customers, many business and organizational groups are likely to have their own reasons for caring about privacy, ease of movement and convenience.
"We already make these kinds of trade-offs all the time," said Bruce Schneier, a security consultant in Sunnyvale, Calif., who is the author of a book due out in September titled "The Security Puzzle." "What you need to know are the agendas of the different players."
Mr. Graham, a passionate champion of cost-benefit analysis who taught at Harvard before joining the administration, stopped short of saying that government officials might somehow assign a price for costs like lost privacy or convenience.
But he said it was important to analyze such costs, even if they could not be translated into precise dollar amounts. "We can all see that life has changed since Sept. 11," he said in a recent interview in his office in the Old Executive Office Building. "Simply identifying some of these costs will help understand them and get people to think about alternatives that might reduce those costs."
Two of Mr. Graham's colleagues at Harvard have already taken a look at potential trade-offs in a recent paper titled "Sacrificing Civil Liberties to Reduce Terrorism Risk." The authors, W. Kip Viscusi of Harvard Law School and Richard J. Zeckhauser at the Kennedy School of Government, said Harvard law students surveyed were more willing to accept profiling of airline passengers if it meant they could save time in security checks.
While 44 percent of students said they favored profiling if it saved them 10 minutes, 74 percent were in favor if it saved them an hour.
"Clearly, people are willing to make trade-offs," said Mr. Viscusi, who has been applying cost-benefit analysis to environmental regulations since the early 1980's. Weighing values like privacy or civil liberty against heightened security, he said, could help prevent the security goals from overtaking common sense.
"If you're the homeland security guy, that is the only thing you're going to be looking at and you're going to have tunnel vision," Mr. Viscusi said. "The last tightening of the standard may not have much of a payoff in security but it it might have a big cost in civil liberties."
Lawyers at the American Civil Liberties Union also see benefits in treating lost civil liberties as a cost.
"Many of the proposals coming out of the Department of Justice would fail the risk-benefit analysis if the costs of lost liberties are weighed in," said Gregory Nojeim, associate director of the A.C.L.U.'s national office. "We think it's necessary to assess the costs of counterterrorism proposals in terms of lost liberties." 
Since Sept. 11, 2001, universities have begun providing the government with more detailed information on foreign students and any changes that might invalidate their visas. The Bush administration is also proposing an elaborate new system, linked to security checks at the F.B.I. and C.I.A., under which the government would run background checks on foreign students or foreign teachers who want to do research in potentially sensitive scientific areas.
University officials are increasingly worried that ever-tighter scrutiny will cost them tens of thousands of students a year.
"For decades, we were getting them all, but there has been a sharp increase in competition from Australia, Canada and Europe," said John Vaughn, executive vice president of the Association of American Universities. "If we increase the monitoring of foreign students, with overtones of presumptive guilt, and we increase restrictions on foreigners doing research, these things will have an indirect chilling effect."
The trade-offs are almost certain to escalate. Proposals are circulating for tighter rules on immigration, on customs inspections, on preparation against bioterrorist attacks and on scores of other issues.
Last month, the Justice Department set off a furor among civil rights advocates with the draft of a proposal to expand the powers of the law enforcement authorities.
Though administration officials said the draft was not a formal proposal, its recommendations included invalidating state laws against police spying and imposing a flat ban on using the Freedom of Information Act to identify people detained on suspicions of terrorist involvement.
The domestic security push has in many ways turned the battles of cost-benefit analysis on their head. In the 1980's, consumer advocates like Mr. Nader often denounced cost-benefit analysis as a tool conservatives used to swat down environmental and safety regulations. 
But just as business groups once viewed cost-benefit analysis as a way to curb restrictions on their activity, Mr. Nader and civil rights groups see it as a way to curb restrictions on government authorities.
"Even without coming to complete agreement on what we think the cost of lost freedom is, we would all agree that it's not zero," Mr. Nader said. "They are developing dragnet systems of law enforcement that are very inefficient. I'm saying to O.M.B., you guys are the brake. You are the only ones who can bring these guys down to earth." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AVIATION SECURITY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



335 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE POLL; 
MORE AMERICANS NOW FAULTING U.N. ON IRAQ, POLL FINDS

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Americans are growing impatient with the United Nations and say they would support military action against Iraq even if the Security Council refuses to support an invasion, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
 The poll found that 58 percent of Americans said the United Nations was doing a poor job in managing the Iraqi crisis, a jump of 10 points from a month ago. And 55 percent of respondents in the latest poll would support an American invasion of Iraq, even if it was in defiance of a vote of the Security Council. 
But a majority of respondents, 52 percent, say inspectors should be given more time to search for evidence of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons on the ground in Iraq. Still, that number has dropped over the past month, and there has been an increase in the number of Americans who say the United States has done enough to find a diplomatic solution in Iraq. 
Taken together, the Times/CBS News findings suggest that President Bush has made progress, at least at home, in portraying Saddam Hussein as a threat to peace while rallying support for a war over rising objections in the international community. They also signal that the nation may be moving toward the traditional wartime rallying around the president that the White House -- and Mr. Bush's Democratic opponents -- have anticipated.
 At the same time, there was evidence that many Americans remain perplexed about what Mr. Bush is doing and why he is doing it. While Mr. Bush says his main goal is disarming Iraq, Americans are more likely to say he is motivated by a desire to oust Mr. Hussein from power. A majority of Americans say the White House has failed to tell them what they need to know about the justification for a pre-emptive attack.
 Respondents were nearly evenly divided when asked if Mr. Bush was being guided by the memory of his father's dealings with Mr. Hussein in prosecuting what would be the nation's second war against Iraq in 12 years. Nearly half said Mr. Bush was driven by the personal desire to accomplish what his father did not when he cut off his invasion of Iraq in 1991 without ousting Mr. Hussein. Younger men in the poll were more apt to see a familial motivation for the president. 
There is clear concern among Americans that the United States is paying a price internationally for Mr. Bush's aggressive posture. The number of Americans who believe that their president enjoys the respect of world leaders has dropped to 45 percent from 67 percent in the space of a year. 
 And for all of Mr. Bush's focus on Iraq, there is growing evidence of concern among Americans about the dangers posed by North Korea. The number of Americans who disapprove of how Mr. Bush is handing the situation with North Korea jumped to 35 percent from 25 percent in a month.
 The nationwide telephone poll of 1,010 adults was conducted from Friday night through Sunday night. It had a margin of sampling error of three percentage points. 
The poll began the day after Mr. Bush pressed his views on Iraq in a nationally televised news conference from the East Room of the White House, and after Hans Blix, the chief inspector for chemical and biological weapons, delivered a report on Iraqi compliance to the United Nations on Friday.
 The poll found that the economy continues to be a concern, with 35 percent of the respondents saying it is the most important problem facing the nation, compared with 23 percent who pointed to Iraq. 
But with Mr. Bush continuing to enjoy a relatively high approval rating in this poll -- 56 percent -- it is clear that his presidency is being judged largely by his conduct of foreign affairs and the potential war.
 By many measures, the poll found that the nation is behind Mr. Bush on Iraq. And for all the signs of dissent and protest around the nation, it would appear that support for war is on the rise.
In the poll, 44 percent of respondents said the United States should take military action against Iraq soon, compared with 36 percent just two weeks ago. Although a majority of respondents still support giving weapons inspectors more time, that number has decreased to 52 percent from 62 percent two weeks ago. 
 Over all, Americans support using military force to remove Mr. Hussein by 66 percent to 30 percent. But that sentiment breaks down sharply along partisan lines that could have ramifications for next year's presidential election, depending on the outcome of a war.
 The poll found that 86 percent of Republicans and 64 percent of independents supported military action to oust Mr. Hussein, while 51 percent of Democrats said they supported it. 
 "We should act now because by waiting we give them more time to prepare, and there will be loss of life," said John Nicholas, 53, a Republican who is a sales manager in Gentryville, Ind., in a follow-up interview. "Are we going to wait until we have another 9/11?"
 Sue Kiesau, 58, a Republican from Neenah, Wis., said: "We have the evidence and I don't think having the troops over there twiddling their thumbs is good psychologically. We need to go in and do it, and we don't need U.N. approval to do it."
 That just 51 percent of Democrats said they supported military action to remove Mr. Hussein is potentially worrisome, if not surprising, for the Democratic presidential contenders, many of whom have in recent days been pressed while campaigning in early Democratic primary states to speak out against Mr. Bush. 
 "As far as the United Nations goes, I feel it is the last hope of our humanity, our last hope of order," said Allan Gold, 81, of Lynbrook, N.Y., a Democrat. "I think they have to be in charge of our decisions. If the weapons inspectors have more time, they may uncover something dangerous."
 And Lawrence Stanecker, 72, a Democrat from Goode, Va., said: "There are too many inconsistencies. We contained Saddam Hussein for 12 years. We contained the Soviet Union for lots of years during the cold war and we didn't go to war."
 Mr. Stanecker, reflecting the reservations some expressed about Mr. Bush's motivation, suggested that the president was trying "to finish what his father didn't do in the Persian Gulf war and to retaliate for Saddam's assassination attempt on George Bush Sr.'s life."
The poll found concern about repercussions from Mr. Bush's policies. For example, 43 percent said that ousting Mr. Hussein was not worth "the potential loss of American life and other costs," compared with 50 percent who said it was. And by 49 percent to 29 percent, Americans said the White House had failed to develop a clear plan about how it would manage a postwar Iraq.
 Nearly two-thirds of respondents said Mr. Bush should take into account the views of antiwar protesters who have been demonstrating with increasing vigor across the nation in recent weeks. At his news conference on Thursday, Mr. Bush said the protests would not affect his thinking on a war.
In a finding that could prove to be of concern to Congress if a war does not go well, 48 percent said the Senate and House of Representatives had not been aggressive enough in challenging Mr. Bush on his war policies. Among Democrats, that figure was 66 percent.
 The findings are nevertheless not a green light for Mr. Bush, who wants to set a deadline of March 17 for Mr. Hussein to comply with the United Nations. The poll found that 60 percent of respondents wanted the administration to take the views of allies into account.
 "I think the United States shouldn't go it alone if the allies don't join us," said Catherine Renfroe, a Republican and retired elementary school teacher from Amarillo, Tex. "The inspectors are doing their job."
 Although Mr. Bush's statements at his news conference last week appear to have increased the nation's support for a war, he apparently did not succeed with one argument: convincing more Americans that Mr. Hussein had a role in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 The poll found that 45 percent of Americans said Mr. Hussein was "personally involved" in the attacks, a number essentially unchanged from a month ago.

How the Survey Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Friday through Sunday with 1,010 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
Complete poll results are online at nytimes.com/washington.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Public Opinion on a Possible War"Do you think removing Saddam Hussein from power is worth the potential loss of American life and the other costs of attacking Iraq?* TOTALYes: 50%No: 43 REPUBLICANSYes: 70No: 23 DEMOCRATSYes: 35No: 61 INDEPENDENTSYes: 48No: 43 MENYes: 55No: 42 WOMENYes: 47No: 43 Do you approve of the United States taking military action against Iraq if the U.N. Security Council votes against the U.S.-sponsored resolution? Approve: 55%Disapprove: 41% Respondents say George W. Bush is most interested in . . . + Stopping Iraq from making weapons: 25%Removing Saddam Hussein from power: 45%Protecting oil: 19%All three: 6 Respondents say they themselves are more interested in. . .+ Stopping Iraq from making weapons: 41%Removing Saddam Hussein from power: 44%Protecting the supply of oil to the U.S.: 8%All three: 4% Do leaders of other countries around the world have respect for George W. Bush? Yes: 45%No: 45% *Based on 506 respondents.+Based on 492 respondents. Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted from March 7 to 9 with 1,010 adults. Those with no opinion are not shown for some questions. (pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); TERRORISM (62%) PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



336 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Plans To Change TV Channels For Brokers 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Responding to the anger of some of its employees over how CNBC has depicted the firm, Merrill Lynch & Company is changing channels for more than 20,000 of them.
 Starting next week, employees of Merrill's brokerage operation, the biggest in the nation, will no longer be able to watch CNBC on their desktop computers. Instead, the firm will provide Bloomberg Television, broadcast by Bloomberg L.P., the company founded by New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 Merrill employees said the switch was spurred, at least in part, by the reactions of some of Merrill's 14,000 brokers and some executives to what has been said about the company by CNBC commentators. Lawrence Kudlow and James J. Cramer, the co-hosts of an evening talk show, have been among the firm's harshest critics. 
Mr. Kudlow has called for the resignations of itschairman, David H. Komansky, and its chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal. Mr. Cramer, who also writes columns for TheStreet.com, a financial Web site he co-founded, has repeatedly discussed the possibility that Merrill might fail because of its involvement with Enron. Merrill said last month that it had agreed to pay $80 million to end an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into two unusual transactions with Enron in 1999.
James Wiggins, a Merrill spokesman, attributed the desire for change to the brokers and said the switch would not affect what other employees, like stock traders and investment bankers, watch.
"This is in response to popular demand," Mr. Wiggins said. "Our financial advisers have asked for a different video feed on their desktops."
Dropping CNBC for a competitor would have been unimaginable just a few years ago. One of the first cable channels to concentrate on financial news, CNBC was the center stage in the bull market of the 1990's, the favorite venue of dot-com chief executives and the analysts who recommended their stocks.
But CNBC's audience has shrunk since then, and the network has been criticized for helping to inflate the technology-stock bubble that burst three years ago. Indeed, Bloomberg executives contend that their programming -- essentially nonstop commentary on financial markets and corporate developments -- is more popular than CNBC's.
Bloomberg's biggest handicap is that it is available 24 hours only on digital cable TV systems, which are more expensive than standard cable service and not available everywhere. The channel is shown nationwide from 5 a.m. to 8 a.m. weekdays on the USA Network.
During the first two hours of that broadcast, Bloomberg draws a larger audience than does CNBC: averaging 99,000 households compared with 53,000 for CNBC, according to Bloomberg. But at 7 a.m., when CNBC starts showing its main morning program, "Squawk Box," the situation changes. From 7 a.m. to 8 a.m., CNBC is watched in 93,000 households, on average, compared with 67,000 for Bloomberg.
"Our TV is for people that can't not watch," said David Wachtel, director of Bloomberg Media. "There's no question that our product is designed for the serious professional." But, he added, "The TV that's for the professional is for everbody."
A CNBC spokeswoman, Amy Zelvin, declined to comment and said that neither Mr. Kudlow nor Mr. Cramer would comment.
Bloomberg's programming will be piped directly to the brokers' computers, about 30,000 screens worldwide. The brokers will be able to monitor the television feed in a corner of the screen while studying clients' accounts or researching investments.
Mr. Wiggins said that Merrill would pay less for Bloomberg's service than it has paid for CNBC's, but he said that cost was only one of several reasons for the change.
Merrill is a passive, minority investor in Bloomberg L.P., but Mr. Wiggins said that stake did not affect the decision. Merrill recently chose one of Bloomberg's competitors, Thomson Financial, to provide a new computer system for its brokers. Bloomberg TV will be available on that system when Merrill starts installing it later this year, Mr. Wiggins said.
Not all Wall Street firms choose a single TV feed for their brokers. Morgan Stanley, which has about 12,000 brokers, offers them a choice of four channels: CNBC, Bloomberg, CNN and CNNfn. One Morgan Stanley employee said he had been surprised to see how many of the firm's brokers chose to watch Bloomberg over the other channels.
Neither Smith Barney nor UBS PaineWebber provides a TV feed to its brokers' computers, representatives for those firms said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (76%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (93%); BLOOMBERG LP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); THESTREET INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC; CNBC (CABLE CHANNEL); BLOOMBERG LP; BLOOMBERG TELEVISION 

TICKER: TST (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); STAN O'NEAL (58%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; KUDLOW, LAWRENCE; CRAMER, JAMES J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



337 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISCORD; 
France to Veto Resolution On Iraq War, Chirac Says

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, March 10 

 BODY:
In a dramatic break with the United States, President Jacques Chirac said tonight that France would veto a United Nations resolution threatening war against Iraq.
 "My position is that whatever the circumstances, France will vote no," Mr. Chirac said. He added that he had "the feeling" that Russia and China, which also have veto power in the Security Council, are prepared to follow France's lead. 
 Speaking calmly and deliberately during a live television interview in Elysee Palace this evening, Mr. Chirac said he was convinced that the United Nations inspections process was working and that Iraq could be stripped of its dangerous weapons without war.
"The inspectors say that cooperation has improved and that they are in a position to pursue their work," Mr. Chirac said. "This is what is essential. It's not up to you or me to say if the inspections are working."
He added, "We refuse to follow a path that will lead automatically to war as long as the inspectors don't say to us, 'We can't go any further.' "
For the United States to wage war without the assent of the international community would set "a dangerous precedent," Mr. Chirac warned.
Mr. Chirac offered Washington a way out, crediting the American military buildup in the Persian Gulf region and the threat of force for forcing the Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein, to disarm.
"They have deployed 200,000 troops; they have already won," Mr. Chirac exclaimed. "I have had the chance to tell this already to President Bush."
Washington is not likely to see it that way. To Mr. Bush, the inspections process can never succeed in disarming Iraq. Only the overthrow of Mr. Hussein will do that.
To Mr. Chirac, American military pressure has allowed the inspectors to succeed in the process of disarming Iraq, and their request last week for more time to continue their work must be respected.
Indeed, Mr. Chirac acknowledged that Mr. Hussein needed to cooperate more with inspectors searching for his weapons of mass destruction. "It's not for you or me to say whether the inspections are effective, if Iraq is sufficiently cooperative -- it is not, by the way, I'll tell you that right away," he said.
Mr. Chirac seemed impervious to the warning by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell on American television on Sunday that a French veto would seriously harm bilateral relations. "I am totally convinced of the opposite," he said, adding at another point that France is "not at all in conflict with the United States."
He dismissed threats of an American-led economic embargo against France -- which has been proposed by a number of American lawmakers -- saying that in an age of globalization, such actions no longer make sense.
Mr. Chirac sat behind a long, delicate desk opposite the two interviewers from the TF1 and France 2 television channels and fiddled with a blue pen throughout the 35-minute interview.
If the United States brings the resolution to a vote, as it has promised, and France vetoes it, it would be the first time France voted against the United States since the 1956 Suez crisis.
However, Mr. Chirac also indicated that France might not have to use its veto power because, he said, the resolution did not have the necessary nine votes for passage.
Mr. Chirac spoke on a day of furious global diplomacy, as President Bush and Mr. Powell worked the phones to build foreign support for the pending, American-drafted resolution that would authorize war if Baghdad fails to surrender all its weapons of mass destruction by March 17.
Meanwhile, the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, traveled to three African countries that currently sit on the Security Council -- Angola, Cameroon and Guinea -- in the hope of persuading them to oppose the war resolution. Mr. de Villepin has said repeatedly that a vast majority of the world is against the war, and would like to prove that point by winning the vote in the United Nations.
However, Mr. de Villepin today failed to secure backing for the French position during a brief stop in Angola. Foreign Minister Joao Bernardo de Miranda said that war on Iraq now seemed inevitable, and hinted that Angola would abstain. "The position of Angola is to back neither France nor the United States," Mr. Bernardo de Miranda said.
In Cameroon, the foreign minister, Francois-Xavier Ngoubeyou, refused to comment on how his country would vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); GLOBALIZATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



338 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER WALKOUT: OVERVIEW; 
MAYOR INTERVENES IN THEATER STRIKE

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg summoned Broadway musicians and producers to Gracie Mansion last night for round-the-clock negotiations and appointed a mediator to help resolve the strike that has darkened all but one major musical.
 To mediate the dispute, the mayor called on Frank J. Macchiarola, the former chancellor of the New York City public schools, who was a member of Mr. Bloomberg's transition team and has often played a diplomatic role in municipal matters. 
 "I am encouraged that theater owners, producers and the musicians' union have taken the city up on its offer," the mayor said yesterday. "I am determined that they reach an agreement so Broadway can come back to life." 
Both sides reported to Gracie Mansion about 9 o'clock last night with the assumption that they would essentially not leave the room until they came out with a settlement.
Though Mr. Bloomberg has no official jurisdiction in the dispute, he brings the political influence of his job. Concerned about the mounting economic losses from the strike, he is following in the footsteps of Mayor Abraham D. Beame, who helped settle the last musicians' strike in 1975 with lengthy negotiations at Gracie Mansion. That strike lasted 25 days.
Both producers and musicians said they were grateful for the city's intervention and optimistic about a settlement. "For the good of Broadway and for all of New York City, we are prepared to negotiate night and day to achieve a fair and equitable settlement so we can go on with the show," the producers said in a statement. Bill Moriarity, president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said, "We're happy that the mayor got involved in this, and we look forward to working through the night."
Reached as he was about to be briefed on the dispute, Dr. Macchiarola said, "I'm happy to do whatever I can to get this resolved amicably."
The mayor at first appeared reluctant to become involved, suggesting on Sunday that the two sides needed to come to an agreement on their own. This frustrated at least some producers who said privately that a call from the mayor would easily embarrass both parties into returning to the table, relieving either side of having to make the first move.
The main issue leading to the musicians' walkout on Friday was the minimum number of musicians required in the orchestra pit at Broadway's largest theaters, which is 24 to 26 under the current contract.
The talks broke down Friday night when the actors and stagehands joined the musicians' strike. The producers then made what they called a final offer of 15 musicians and canceled Broadway musicals for the weekend. In recent days, the producers had privately expressed a willingness to settle for a minimum of 18. The musicians had indicated that they would consider 20 to 24.
Much of Broadway has been dark for four days, except Off Broadway shows and dramatic plays. Just one major musical remains open: "Cabaret," which has a different contract because it is performed at Studio 54, the former dance club, rather than in a traditional theater.
Early yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg made calls to Mr. Moriarity and Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, which represents the producers.
"I offered to do whatever possible to help resolve the issues that remain between the two parties," Mr. Bloomberg said. "I pointed out to them the severe economic impact on a city still recovering from the terrible tragedy of the Sept. 11 attack, the financial hardships being experienced by those employed in this and related industries, and the disappointment of theatergoers from around the world that the strike was causing."
Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president of NYC and Company, the city's tourism bureau, applauded the mayor for trying to avoid a strike that she estimated was costing the city $7 million a day. "It's some hope we have on the horizon," she said. "This has been a very painful but self-inflicted wound which I believe will start to heal tonight."
Dr. Macchiarola, the president of St. Francis College in Brooklyn, was schools chancellor from 1978 to 1983. He served on the Charter Revision Commission and was chairman of the Districting Commission that redrew New York's political map. He also spent five years at the New York City Partnership, a civic group of business executives. 
The mayor's decision to take a prominent role was unusual. In the past, he has made a point of steering clear of labor conflicts, while at the same time working behind the scenes. Even as Mr. Bloomberg was saying publicly that the city should have no role in the dispute between bus company workers and their private employers last June, for example, the city's labor negotiators were quietly working toward a settlement. The mayor was more visible in the recent brush with a transit strike, often criticizing the union for its high demands. His current labor relations with the city workers are strained because he has threatened layoffs. 
City Hall officials say Mr. Bloomberg decided to take an aggressive stance with Broadway because of his sense of economic urgency.
"Obviously the idea that musical Broadway is shut down, we see as having an economic impact on the city," said William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director. "It is not a normal dispute between private companies and entities, and the mayor can offer his good offices to sit and talk and come to a productive resolution of the problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%) THEATER; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); MACCHIAROLA, FRANK J; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003 



339 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER; 
In the Village, a Seafood Place Loosens Its Tie

BYLINE:  By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
WHEN Fish opened about three years ago in the heart of Greenwich Village, I couldn't figure out what to make of it. Ambition seemed to clash with ambience, producing a dissonant muddle. 
 The little storefront had a simple, direct name and the welcome air of a waterfront dive. Oysters and whole fish glistened on ice in the front, where a small retail operation was set up at the end of a bar. In the rear was a narrow dining room. It was attractively humble, with a worn mosaic floor that looked as if it could tell tales from the days when sailors really sailed. Yet the food seemed contrived and expensive, as if a stubborn chef could not let go of a grand vision. Complex food at odds with modest surroundings can be romantic, but not here. It just felt inhibited. 
 So I was surprised and pleased a month or so ago when I walked past Fish and noticed a new simpler menu that focused on chowders, an expanded raw bar, lobster rolls and grilled fish. When I returned on a Saturday night, it was clear that the starched white tablecloth had been tossed aside, revealing the boisterous oyster bar within. The place was packed and loud, bouncing to the beat of Little Walter's "Juke." The bar was dim and smoky, the beer was flowing, and the illusion of waterfront dissolution, which gives oyster bars such character, was intact.
Edward Taylor, Fish's owner, also owns Down East Seafood, a wholesaler. His partner in Fish left recently, leaving Mr. Taylor free to change the place. Of course, the tottering post-Sept. 11 economy made his wish for a stripped-down menu sensible.
The menu is still a little too long, but I can't think of a place where I've had fresher or better oysters on the half shell ($8 to $12 a half-dozen), at least recently. The East Coast oysters are especially good now, like clean, saline Spinney Creeks, and meaty, minerally Blue Points. West Coast selections like deeply cupped Kumamotos and creamy Fanny Bays seem more sedate, with mildly briny, cucumbery notes. The flavors are so pure I like to eat the oysters unadorned, though I wish the small wine list included a muscadet, a natural accompaniment for oysters.
Simple dishes are the best, like a New England chowder ($5 a cup, $7 a bowl) chock full of clams, and an excellent, compact lobster roll ($16), with lots of lemon-scented meat and sides of terrific fries and slightly sweet cole slaw. Shrimp cocktail ($8) is unusually flavorful, and the crab cakes ($9 appetizer, $18 main) are some of the best I've had, big and meaty, crisp at the edges with a faint taste of Worcestershire in the mix. A fried clam roll ($12) was disappointing, the clams -- strips, not bellies -- tough and leathery.
I loved scallop ceviche ($10), the scallop sliced thin and marinated in lime, with slivers of jalapeno for a jolt. A fried oyster appetizer ($9) is enhanced by a foaming ginger-and-soy sauce. 
A busy weekend night may not be the best time to sample dishes that require precision cooking. A thin yellowfin tuna steak ($16) was undistinguished, while spicy lobster fra diavolo ($18) was done in by gummy linguine. A dish like lobster shepherd's pie ($18) simply raises the issue of why you would put perfectly good lobster meat in a pot pie. I don't have an answer.
On a calmer weeknight, whole roasted sea bream ($15) was perfectly cooked and pleasing. But crayfish with tomato sauce and rice, masquerading as crayfish Creole ($16), lacked subtlety or complexity.
Even so, I love the casual, rakish feel of Fish, the waiters in white aprons, the rickety tables, the scent of horseradish in the air. Yes, the ambition may be gone, but the romance beats it by a mile. 

Fish
280 Bleecker Street (Jones Street) Greenwich Village, (212) 727-2879

BEST DISHES -- Oysters on the half shell, clam chowder, lobster roll, shrimp cocktail, crab cakes, scallop ceviche, fried oysters, sea bream.
PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $5 to $12; main courses, $9 to $28 (for a steak).
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
HOURS -- Sunday through Thursday, noon to midnight. Friday and Saturday, noon to 1 a.m.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Narrow entrance, restrooms are downstairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RETAILERS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



340 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Can You Put a Price Tag on Liberty? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "New Scale for Toting Up Lost Freedom vs. Security Would Measure in Dollars" (news article, March 11): 
 So now we will all have a price on our heads. The Office of Management and Budget wants to assign monetary values to the loss of liberty and the loss of privacy associated with increased security measures.
This is another example of the Bush administration's misguided tendency to see everything in economic terms.
When the almighty dollar is the only yardstick that we have, we will draw misleading -- and dangerous, potentially disastrous -- conclusions.
The damage that we're doing to our society and to our reputation abroad is immeasurable. 
As my mother used to say, some things are not for sale.

BILL KASDORF
Ann Arbor, Mich., March 11, 2003

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Blair Thornley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%) TERRORISM; PRIVACY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: KASDORF, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



341 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Yankee Inn, English Charm, French Approval 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: CHAGFORD, England 

 BODY:
ONE Friday night in March 1978, an American couple opened a small hotel, lost amid the hills, hedgerows and twisting lanes of Devon, in southwestern England. It was a four-hour expedition by train or car from London.
 Equipped only with high hopes, a few pieces of antique furniture, a small but choice wine collection, a sketchy knowledge of haute cuisine picked up in the star-spangled restaurants of France and an improbably large bank loan, they seemed ill-suited to the task they set for themselves: turning a rundown mock-Tudor house, idyllically sited at the foot of bleakly beautiful Dartmoor, into one of Europe's premier inns, with food worth the trip. 
 Against the odds, they succeeded. Kay Henderson, then 37, handled the pots and pans at first, at a time when few women worked in top professional kitchens. Paul Henderson, then 39, a former management consultant and like his wife a graduate of Purdue University in Indiana, handled the books and the cellar. 
Three years after opening, their hotel, Gidleigh Park, won a star in the Michelin red guide -- the first ever awarded to Americans, as far as anyone knows -- and, 18 years after that, a second. They survived economic slumps, including the one that followed 9/11, and a devastating regional foot-and-mouth epidemic.
Last week, 25 years and eight house cats later, the Hendersons celebrated by inviting former chefs, former managers and a few longtime clients, myself among them, to return for a house party. For the occasion, they paved their notoriously potholed half-mile-long driveway for the first time since setting up shop, and uncorked one or more 1978 vintages each evening, including a sumptuous Leoville Barton.
Naturally, it rained quite a lot.
No matter. The landscape -- cited last week by Country Life magazine in naming Devon "England's best county" -- glowed wondrously. The sheep nibbled the luxuriant grass on the patchwork hillsides, and from time to time a romantic painter's shaft of light knifed through the mist.
Michael Caines, the incumbent chef, produced some of his own specialties, including local venison in a sticky, peppery sauce, with chestnuts, baby fennel and tea-soaked raisins one night, and rare roast pigeon with a potato galette in an elegantly balanced Madeira sauce another night. He also produced his own versions of fish dishes introduced by several predecessors, like Shaun Hill's scallops with lentils and coriander sauce and John Webber's monkfish on a bed of cucumber with grain mustard sauce.
When Gidleigh opened, Mr. Henderson drove his old Volvo to London once a week for supplies, and dishes that could be produced from staples, like a carrot timbale, had a prominent place on the menu. Mr. Webber described a roast pineapple dessert as "end-of-the-week pudding." Now carefully nurtured networks bring in raw materials from every corner of the kingdom.
One constant: superb cheeses from neighboring farms. I tasted Quickes Traditional Cheddar on my first visit in 1980 and again this time. Now famous around the world, it has been made for 400-plus years on a farm just 15 miles away, in Newton St. Cyres.
Bill Baker, one of the guests, commented that "great hotels are all about memories, good times and the people that you've met." He should know; a celebrated wine merchant, he met his wife, Kate, who was then the hotel's front-of-the-house manager, during a sales call here. 
For my wife, Betsey, and me, the Lucullan memories include the first night of our honeymoon, in 1982; my 50th birthday party, in 1984, a modest affair of nine courses, five 1934 wines and a 1934 Armagnac; and a night when, without Betsey, who would have known better, I helped demolish a salmanazar of Champagne (12 bottles in one) in commemoration of not much of anything.
Mr. and Mrs. Henderson's exacting standards have never wavered.
"From the first day I came here in 1980," the soft-spoken Mr. Webber told me, "I sensed a real clarity of purpose and an aversion to coasting."
Matthew Fort, the food editor of The Guardian, who was another of the guests, compares Gidleigh to Coleridge's Xanadu -- a "stately pleasure-dome" girded by "gardens bright with sinuous rills, where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree." Wood smoke rises from the chimneys 365 days a year, contributing ahaunting aroma, and the burbling little North Teign River, hurrying down from the moor, provides music to fall asleep by. Last week the snowdrops and daffodils were in bloom; the towering rhododendrons will flower in May.
Gum boots stand by the front door, and chintz covers the sofas. But this is a fantasy English country house. Real ones have dog hairs everywhere. They are not as well heated, their plumbing is not as efficient -- and, Lord knows, their cooking bears not the slightest resemblance to Mr. Caines's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE HILL -- The North Teign River runs through the gardens of Gidleigh Park, a hotel and restaurant in southwestern England that has two Michelin stars. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. F1); PRIME FARE -- The hotel's roast pigeon with Madeira sauce tops a potato galette. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times); FROM PURDUE TO DEVON -- Kay and Paul Henderson, the American owners of Gidleigh Park, have been innkeepers for 25 years. (pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (65%); CATS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



342 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants On the Fringe, And Thriving 

BYLINE:  By JANELLE BROWN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
IT was 9 o'clock on a Friday night at Mamasan's Bistro in the Mission District and the food was running a little late, but no one seemed to mind. Two dozen diners perched on folding chairs, listening to a hip-hop D.J. spin classic De La Soul in the glow of the Christmas lights dangling overhead. The restaurant's proprietor, a willowy 37-year-old woman who would reveal only her first name, Lynette, was in the kitchen placidly doctoring coconut yams on her crowded four-burner stove.
 "This place has become my second home," said Carlos Castille, an artist, as he sipped a coconut-mango cocktail. "There's a comfort to it. It's so mellow. I've brought all my friends." 
 But securing a seat at Mamasan's is not easy. The restaurant, which also happens to be Lynette's apartment, has no sign, and the only way you will ever find it is if someone tells you where it is (a quiet street, a hidden door, up a dark stairwell to the top apartment). Even then, you can't just show up: you must have an invitation. To get one you need an introduction from a previous guest. This may seem as if it's a complicated way to get a plate of grilled salmon, but Mamasan's Bistro is not a legal endeavor. Its kitchen lacks the certificates, permits and inspections required by the city of San Francisco. And although the coconut-mango cocktails flowed, Lynette does not have a liquor license.
Mamasan's is not, however, an anomaly. Restaurants of dubious legality, where food is cooked in apartments and backyards, abound across the United States. These underground restaurants range from upscale to gritty, and are born from youthful idealism, ethnic tradition or economic necessity. They lack certification from any government agency and are, strictly speaking, against the law. You dine in them at your own risk. If you can find them.
Over the last four years, Lynette said, more than a thousand customers have come through her doors to eat pungent Chamorran dishes from Guam, where she was raised in the local Chamorro culture. She cooks them with her 61-year-old mother, the Mamasan of the restaurant's name.
"I've worked at restaurants for years, and dealing with the public is a beast," Lynette said. "You don't get to edit who comes into your space, and it becomes a very sterile exchange of goods. I like knowing who is coming, and whether they understand what I'm doing."
Lynette describes her restaurant as a kind of "party" -- albeit one that comes with a bill -- and many underground restaurateurs harbor similar visions. Most chefs, after all, cook because they want to feed people great meals, but in the end, the compliments of satisfied diners are not always compensation for the headaches of running a business. 
Club Azteca, in a private home in San Pablo, Calif., is open only on Saturday mornings. Customers sometimes drive hours for its menudo and lamb birria. Azteca, which starts serving at 6 a.m., is about eight months old.
"My parents used to run a restaurant before, but it was never as much fun as this," said Erika Carravieri, 30, who helps her parents operate the place. "Everyone drinks and sings, and at 6 o'clock in the morning! When they were running a restaurant, my mom aged so much in a year." 
Gray hair is exactly what Michael Hebbe and Naomi Pomeroy hoped to avoid when they started Ripe in Portland, Ore. The young couple had cooked at a number of the city's better-known restaurants and knew, they said, how deflating and impersonal the professional cooking experience could be.
"The kitchen is demeaning," Mr. Hebbe said. "You cook for people you don't see. All you hear from guests is, 'This is undercooked' or 'This needs to be redone.' That environment doesn't seem sustainable or healthy, which is why the staff turnover at restaurants is so incredible."
Ripe, in contrast, was conceived three years ago as a twice-a-month supper club for a select group of guests. Their first night, Mr. Hebbe and Ms. Pomeroy served 22 people in their living-room-turned-dining room. Within months they had an online mailing list in the thousands and a bustling catering business.
Ripe recently moved into a tiny licensed commercial kitchen in the back of a downtown office building and is now, Mr. Hebbe said, "fairly legal." Guests pay $20 (not including wine and dessert) to eat cassoulet or risotto served out of communal bowls.
After only two years of business, Mr. Hebbe says that Ripe is also profitable, which is more than most new restaurants can say. Mr. Hebbe attributes this to Ripe's underground roots. After all, he did not have to make an initial investment in a building or lay out a bundle for licenses, or insurance, or marketing, or staff. Starting a restaurant from scratch, depending on ambition and location, can cost hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars.
"The startup cost of most operations is astronomical," Mr. Hebbe said. "It's impossible to do it by the book and make money in your first three to five years."
Working underground can also be a way for a would-be restaurateur to test the waters of professional cooking. Joseph DeSalazar, 27, an advertising executive, runs a sporadically open restaurant called Foodies, serving dinner in various rented lofts in New York City. He ventured into his floating concern after spending his weekends volunteering in the kitchens at Cafe Boulud and 11 Madison Park. "With Foodies, I didn't feel like I was making a lifelong commitment," he said. "It isn't a fixed location, I don't have any expectations to live up to, and it can change every time."
Many underground concerns are born of neighborhood necessity. According to Jim Leff, a food critic who founded the Web site Chowhound.com, apartment-based restaurants are common among Brazilian and African families who live in immigrant communities in Queens. One family, he said, might make it its business to prepare cheap takeout meals for an entire apartment building. 
"They are filling a niche that isn't filled by restaurants," Mr. Leff said, "doing it in areas where there are no restaurants, doing it at lower price points, or serving traditional dishes that restaurants are afraid to serve because they are too unusual."
Most underground restaurants are a simple matter of economic necessity. Mr. Leff's favorite, he said, is the domain of a "genius" cook who once ran the "best Venezuelan restaurant in New York." After that restaurant closed in a dispute between business partners, the cook could not afford to open her own establishment, so she began cooking out of the basement of her house in Queens.
"I've eaten there on card tables," Mr. Leff said. "She is basically a homeless chef. Housing is not the only thing that's being priced out of the league of real people."
The downside of running an underground restaurant is, of course, the chance of getting caught by the licensing authorities. Laws vary from state to state; in California, a dining establishment must comply with local zoning restrictions and be inspected by the fire department, the liquor authority and the health department. In addition, a state-certified "food handler" must be on staff at all times. New York has comparable requirements.
"It's all about how to avoid making people sick," said Jack Breslin, director of the consumer protection program at the San Francisco health department. "If no one is looking over my shoulder to see how I'm storing, processing and serving my food, the greater the risk of something bad happening."
And although the health department, at least in San Francisco, probably will not throw underground restaurateurs in jail, it will shut them down if it sniffs them out, which is one reason most advertise only by word of mouth. (Mr. Leff recommends asking taxi drivers.) On Internet sites like Chowhound.com, diners often lament the passing of beloved underground boites, like the Blue Tarp Thai restaurant in West Philadelphia, where until this summer, students and professors from the University of Pennsylvania ate green papaya salad at tables in the backyard of the Phanthavong family's row house.
Sunny Phanthavong, 18, said the family knew their restaurant was illegal, "but thought we were doing something positive for the community." After several years in business, they were discovered by an observant police officer. "He was writing a ticket for someone who was eating outside while parked illegally, and saw through the gate," Ms. Phanthavong explained.
In November, after receiving a loan from a community-oriented university program, the family reopened legally as the Vientiane Cafe, but it is not the same, Ms. Phanthavong said. "I miss the old days of the backyard," she said.
Another drawback to the business of running an underground restaurant is the simple wear and tear that occurs when strangers troop through your home. Over the years, Lynette of Mamasan's Bistro has lost, she said, "pretty much every good CD" she has owned to light-fingered guests. And one reason Mr. Hebbe in Portland decided to move Ripe into a licensed kitchen was concern about his white carpets. "Every two weeks our living room got ripped out to make space for tables," he said, "and then we had to tear it down and clean up, and then two weeks later do it again. And we had to wash every single dish by hand."
He may someday look back on those days of constant furniture rearranging and dish-water hands with fondness. Veva Edelson began her career running an illegal cafe in her home in Arcata, Calif., cooking vegetarian cuisine at bargain-basement prices. Today, although a co-owner of Firefly, a well-reviewed, popular and quite legal restaurant in San Francisco, she is sometimes nostalgic for its predecessor. "I have dreams that I'm moving Firefly into my mother's living room and that it's now a one-night-a-week restaurant, off the books and cash only, where people just come and enjoy themselves," she said. "There's so much less expectation when something is amateur."
Up in her crowded apartment, Lynette occasionally thinks about making Mamasan's legitimate. Last year, she looked into a restaurant space, but became discouraged when she realized that it would cost $250,000 to renovate it and bring it up to code. So Mamasan's continues as a part-time restaurant that, while barely taking in enough money to cover the rent, has the virtue of retaining its personal touch.
"I do it for the love, mostly," she said. "I don't exactly want to boast that I have an illegal establishment in my house, but this is how artists survive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHAT'S THE PASSWORD? -- Ripe began as an underground restaurant before moving to this downtown space in Portland, Ore. (Basil Childers)(pg. 7); ONE WAY TO START -- Veva Edelson, left, began her career running an underground restaurant out of her home in Northern California; she now runs a legitimate restaurant, Firefly, in San Francisco. Right, patrons gather in Mamasan's Bistro, an underground restaurant in an apartment in the Mission District of San Francisco. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); INSPECTIONS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



343 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: China Buys Another Piece Of Big Caspian Sea Oil Field 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 11 

 BODY:
For the second time in four days, a Chinese state-owned enterprise has agreed to buy a stake in a huge oil field in the Caspian Sea, expanding China's drive to secure reliable oil supplies.
 The deal, announced today by the Sinopec Group, is identical to the one concluded on Friday by CNOOC Ltd.: $615 million for a one-twelfth stake in the North Caspian Sea project in Kazakhstan. The project includes the Kashagan field, thought to hold as much oil as the North Slope of Alaska, and four other current or projected oil and gas fields. In both cases, the seller is the BG Group of Britain. 
 The investments will not help China if war in Iraq disrupts the oil market: production is not scheduled to start at Kashagan for two years, and it will not reach full output for several years after that.
Still, the Sinopec and CNOOC purchases are the biggest steps China has taken to limit its fast-growing dependence on oil from the Persian Gulf. China's domestic oil production has leveled off, with no sign of any further large discoveries to come in an already well-explored country. But the economy is expanding 8 percent a year, car ownership is becoming more common and oil consumption is rising briskly. 
Chinese involvement raises the possibility that some of the oil from the Caspian project could be piped eastward across Kazakhstan and western China to the population centers of eastern China. Mark Qiu, CNOOC's chief financial officer, said that existing pipelines could handle the low initial output from the Caspian fields, but that a decision on a new pipeline route would be needed when the new fields are closer to full production.
CNOOC is China's offshore oil company. Sinopec is mainly an oil refiner and petrochemical producer; it also operates many of China's gas stations. David Chin, an investment banker at UBS Warburg who represented Sinopec in the deal, said of the company, "They want to become a more balanced group with more upstream, midstream and downstream businesses."
BG, one of the earliest investors in the alliance developing the North Caspian project, has now sold all of its one-sixth stake in the two deals. Oil industry analysts had criticized BG for concentrating too many of its assets in Kazakhstan, especially as the large scale of the Kashagan field became clear.
The project alliance, led by Eni of Italy, also includes Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell, TotalFinaElf, ConocoPhillips and Inpex. These partners have what is called a pre- emption right, entitling them to pre- empt BG's sale to the two Chinese companies and buy BG out themselves by matching the terms offered to CNOOC and Sinopec. 
Mr. Qiu of CNOOC said in a telephone interview that adding Sinopec to the equation today reduced the chances that the other partners in the project would exercise their pre-emption rights. The existing partners are already obliged to invest large sums toward the more than $20 billion needed to put the Kashagan field into production; buying BG's shares would make them responsible for even more of a large, possibly risky investment, Mr. Qiu said.
One confusing difference between the CNOOC and Sinopec deals involves the units used to make the acquisitions. In CNOOC's case, the purchase is being made by a publicly traded subsidiary, CNOOC Ltd., based in Hong Kong, which is flush with profits from the high oil prices, not by the wholly state-owned parent in Beijing, known simply as CNOOC.
The situation is reversed with Sinopec: the state-owned Beijing parent, the Sinopec Group, is the buyer, not the Sinopec Corporation, which is publicly traded here and in New York, London and Shanghai. 
Philip Andrews-Speed, an expert on the Chinese oil industry at the University of Dundee in Scotland, said that using the state-owned parent would make it easier for Beijing to subsidize the deal for national security reasons at a time when high crude prices are hurting refiners, who have trouble passing them on to customers. 
But Mr. Chin said that Sinopec decided long ago to handle acquisitions of foreign oil exploration and production operations through its Beijing parent, and that the government was not involved in the choice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); CONSUMPTION (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (92%); BG GROUP PLC (85%); CNOOC LTD (85%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); CHINA PETROCHEMICAL CORP (58%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); TOTAL SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SINOPEC GROUP; BG GROUP 

TICKER: SNP (NYSE) (92%); SNP (LSE) (92%); 0386 (HKSE) (92%); BG (LSE) (85%); CEO (NYSE) (85%); 0883 (HKSE) (85%); COP (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); TTA (LSE) (51%); TOT (NYSE) (51%); TOT (BIT) (51%); FP (PAR) (51%); FP (BRU) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (51%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); GULF STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA; CASPIAN SEA; KAZAKHSTAN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



344 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia Is Urged to Intervene in Company Loan Debacle 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, March 11 

 BODY:
The United States, Japan, Canada and eight European nations have written to the Indonesian president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, urging her to intervene in efforts to recover $6.5 billion in loans from Asia Pulp and Paper. The company, a family-owned conglomerate at the center of one of Asia's biggest and longest-running financial debacles, defaulted on $13.9 billion in debt in 2001.
 Creditors appear to be drawing close to a deal to restructure the debts of the four Indonesian units of Asia Pulp and Paper. But they remain at loggerheads with the Indonesian authorities over safeguards against a second default, according to a person close to the European export agencies involved in the negotiations. 
 A letter signed jointly by the 11 countries' ambassadors in Jakarta is the latest effort by creditors to pin down Asia Pulp and Paper. "We are trying to get the Indonesian government more involved in the restructuring," said Bo Ollison, spokesman for the United States Export-Import Bank, which is owed at least $108 million by Asia Pulp and Paper. "We are still working through the negotiation process and are hopeful that an agreement can be reached." 
But bankers close to the talks said they were doubtful that the letter would gain the creditors much leverage, given the Indonesian government's reputation for inaction and Asia Pulp and Paper's adroitness in thwarting outside efforts to wrest control from its founding family, the Widjajas.
"The family will outlast them all," said a former adviser to Asia Pulp and Paper. 
The letter sent to Mrs. Megawati emphasizes the risk that the company's defiance poses to investors' future willingness to do business in Indonesia.
But bankers in the region say the most remarkable thing about the Asia Pulp and Paper mess is how it has been walled off by the markets.
Most of the company's unpaid creditors are export credit agencies like the Export-Import Bank, or dealers in distressed debt; almost no one else has any tangible stake in the outcome, though a successful resolution would remove a cloud from the general investment climate in Indonesia, the bankers said. 
Looming much larger are questions about how a war in Iraq may affect Indonesia, a predominantly Muslim country with a presidential election due next year. The country's uncertain legal environment, corrupt courts and growing labor unrest are also scaring away foreign direct investment.
Still, the way the government handles Asia Pulp and Paper will grow in importance as the country strives to emerge next year from a $5 billion economic aid program administered by the International Monetary Fund. The export credit agencies, owed about $960 million by the company, have pointed out that Indonesia may need them to help finance an estimated $100 billion in infrastructure projects over the next decade.
"The longer it drags on, and the more complex it becomes, the more difficult it becomes for Indonesia to access international capital markets," said Steven Hess of Moody's Investors Service in New York.
Asia Pulp and Paper is the flagship of the Sinar Mas Group, a conglomerate founded by one of Indonesia's most prominent Chinese immigrants, Eka Tjipta Widjaja, now in his eighties. That his family remains in control, bankers say, is attributable in part to a byzantine corporate structure that has made it possible for the company to play some creditors off against others.
While creditors have been fighting to restructure the $6.5 billion owed by Asia Pulp's units in Indonesia, other creditors have been trying to win control of the holding company in a court in Singapore, where Asia Pulp and Paper is based. Units in China, where Sinar Mas is a major investor, have reportedly reached a separate deal with creditors. Meanwhile, the company and its former auditor, Arthur Andersen, face lawsuits over allegations of accounting irregularities.
The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency, which became Asia Pulp and Paper's largest single creditor when it took control of the Widjajas's bank during the Asian financial crisis in 1999, signed a preliminary restructuring agreement in December with the company. The agency, known as IBRA, wants to finalize that deal by the end of thismonth. But the export credit agencies want an independent company set up to monitor Asia Pulp and Paper's operations and ensure they are repaid, and they want a mechanism that would give creditors control of the company's stock if it defaults again. IBRA reportedly opposes both ideas, and it is not clear what recourse creditors would have if it rejected them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) PAPER AND PULP; CREDIT; FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: ASIA PULP & PAPER CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; ASIA PULP AND PAPER CO 

PERSON: ;MEGAWATI SUKARNOPUTRI (PRES); ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%) ASIA (97%); INDONESIA (95%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) JAPAN; CANADA; EUROPE; INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



345 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Poughkeepsie; 
From Hotel, Icehouse and Supply Store to Offices

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A former hotel on the Hudson River here, once a bustling way station for railroad and steamboat passengers traveling between New York City and Albany, is being renovated as a modern 60,000-square-foot office building.
 The structure's newest incarnation -- it has also been an icehouse, a brewery and most recently the home of a plumbing supply company -- reflects this city's recent efforts to rebuild not only its once-prosperous waterfront but also a local economy that was dealt a serious blow a decade ago by downsizing at I.B.M., which had three plants in the area. 
 The J. D. Johnson building, as it was known from 1938 to 1992, is in a state Empire Zone, a designated economic development area, and includes among its tenants to date R. J. Dooley & Associates, the seven-year-old construction and engineering company that owns the structure and will occupy 30,000 square feet; a law firm that is leasing 3,000 square feet for five years; two restaurants; and the offices of psychologists. 
About 25,000 square feet in the four-story brick and concrete building remains to be leased, said Laura A. Dolfinger, a real estate agent with Christine Jones Realty in nearby Hyde Park. About 4,000 square feet of that is available for retail use. 
Rents at the renovated building are $18 to $20 a square foot annually. Vincent J. DiMaso, a commercial real estate broker for 35 years, said the going rate for prime office space in Poughkeepsie is $18 to $22.
Robert Dooley, who owns R. J. Dooley & Associates, is offering five-year leases with five-year options to renew at the original rental amount adjusted for inflation.
Mr. Dooley purchased the building for $800,000 two years ago from Thomas Johnson, the owner of the plumbing supply company. Mr. Johnson had plans in the mid-1990's to renovate the building for mixed uses -- including a restaurant, retail space and rental apartments -- but the plans did not come to fruition because of legal obstacles, said Steven Tinkelman, the principal architect with Tinkelman Architecture here. Mr. Tinkelman designed plans for Mr. Johnson and for Mr. Dooley.
"The building is one of the last remnants of what the waterfront was during its heyday," Mr. Tinkelman said, explaining that the building, currently known as Dooley Square, is made up of five connected buildings -- including the former hotel and an elaborate brick Victorian warehouse -- that were built from 1845 to 1909.
It is one of few older buildings left in the waterfront neighborhood. "The last of what remained from the earlier years was obliterated in the 1960's, when there was a lack of appreciation for what came before," the architect said. "That was a time when new was considered better."
Mr. Dooley's $4.2 million renovation has included gutting the building; exposing the original wide-board wood flooring, brick walls and fireplaces; and installing an energy-saving geothermal heat pump system, which will cool or heat the structure by transferring heat from the earth in winter and discharging heat from the building to the ground in summer through a system of buried plastic pipes. 
Mr. Dooley said he was retaining "the building's nooks and crannies and warts," because they give it character. But at the same time, he said, the building will have amenities like a sprinkler system, air-conditioning, modern wiring and a tie-in to a local security company. 
Because the building is in an Empire Zone, tenants are eligible for a variety of tax benefits, explained Anne N. Conroy, director of the Poughkeepsie-Dutchess Empire Zone, a nonprofit, public-private partnership for economic development in Dutchess County. The office building is one of only four or five in the Poughkeepsie area that can accommodate a tenant requiring more than 10,000 square feet, Ms. Conroy said, adding that she expected demand for space there to be brisk.
No formal figures are maintained for office vacancy rates in the two-square-mile city, which is the county seat, or the surrounding town of Poughkeepsie. But Mr. DiMaso, the commercial real estate broker and chairman of the External Marketing Council, a division of the city's Economic Development Corporation, estimated the vacancy rate at less than 10 percent. Mr. DiMaso owns seven office buildings in the area, and all are 100 percent filled, he said.
Ms. Dolfinger, the real estate agent, said that because Dooley Square is next door to the Metro-North Railroad station, she is marketing the office space to a broad geographic area. Figures from Metro-North show that on weekdays about 1,600 commuters travel from Poughkeepsie to New York City, a trip that takes 90 minutes on the Hudson Line during rush hour.
Ms. Conroy observed that the office space will be accessible to commuters from points as far south as New York City and as far north as Albany, much as the original Railroad Hotel was in the golden age of the city's waterfront 150 years ago. Today, the former hotel and warehouse should attract financial advisers, lawyers, investors and other professional types who can conduct business electronically from relatively remote locations and travel to the larger cities one or two days a week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dooley Square is next door to the Metro-North Railroad station, used by 1,600 daily commuters to New York City, a trip that takes 90 minutes. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times); Robert Dooley, left, owner of R. J. Dooley & Associates, and Steven Tinkelman, the architect, look at an area where the roof was removed. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); RETAIL PROPERTY (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PLUMBING WHOLESALERS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); TRENDS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: DOOLEY, R J, & ASSOCIATES 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; DOOLEY, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) POUGHKEEPSIE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



346 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM ASIA; 
In a Contest of Cultures, East Embraces West

BYLINE:  By Seth Mydans 

DATELINE: MANILA, March 11 

 BODY:
Asian values are universal values. European values are European values.
 That was Malaysia's prime minister, Mahathir Muhamad, speaking before the Asian economic meltdown of 1997, when the region still had some swagger and leaders like Dr. Mahathir were resisting Western pressure for more democracy and human rights. 
 Their argument was that the West was trying to impose alien values that favor individual rights on an ancient culture where the highest value is placed on the welfare of society as a whole. In that respect, Asian values became an assertion of regional identity by nations that had begun to flex their economic muscle and to refine their political systems in a post-colonial world.
Asia, it was argued -- and by extension other regions with their own histories -- has different cultural roots, values and assumptions about society than those of the West. Western values like individual rights, justice and fair play could not simply be applied like templates to countries with such different traditions.
There was more than a touch of arrogance in the argument as well, an insinuation that Asian values were not just different from Western values but better -- for society and for economic growth.
The "Asian values" debate was also partly cynical, an excuse for self-assured autocrats like Dr. Mahathir and Singapore's Lee Kuan Yew to play father-knows-best with their people, setting their bedtimes and making them eat their vegetables without complaint.
Happy in their slipstreams were their favored financiers and developers who found a respectable excuse to evade Western standards involving such things as child labor laws, workers' rights and environmental safeguards.
When Asia was riding high in the 1980's and early 90's -- when the region's economies were expanding by 7 or 8 percent a year -- nobody was in a mood to criticize these "Asian values" -- including thrift and hard work.
But with the economic crash in 1997, the underside of these virtues came into view. The snug relationships among the powerful had bred corruption, cronyism, repression and exploitation.
For a while it seemed that the whole idea of Asian values should be consigned to the dustbin of history. But now, in the wake of the Enron bankruptcy and corporate scandals in the United States, the West is also dealing with cronyism and corruption and a debate of sorts has resumed here over which models of society work best: competition versus consensus; the rule of law versus personal relationships; a dynamic, even rowdy society versus stability and order.
America's apparent willingness to go to war in Iraq to impose a Western democracy there has also revived debate here over attempts to impose the cultural values and political structures of one society on another.
Today, there is a slow, daily tug of war between the old-guard traditionalists -- the former Asian values crowd -- and the insurgents of an open society, who are developing a sort of indigenous version of Western values. 
The clans and oligarchs and strongmen and politburos are struggling to hold their ground against the pressures of a more assertive public. Across the region, interest groups are raising their voices with a striking vigor against everything from deforestation to low factory wages.
But the pressures are not coming as they once did from the West. Rather, the new paradigm seems to be the Asian assertion of what Dr. Mahathir called European values.
It is a Thai environmental lobby that is opposing a large dam project. It is an Indonesian group that exposes abuses of political detainees. It is a Singaporean Web site that pushes for free speech. It is a Vietnamese writer -- now in prison -- who demands political openness.
Asian values may indeed be universal values. But it seems that European values are as well.
That is the view of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy leader in Myanmar, formerly called Burma. "Unless they wish to call the people of Burma 'un-Asian,' " she said, "they cannot call our struggle 'un-Asian.' "
Jose Ramos-Horta, the East Timorese leader who also won the Nobel peace prize, was blunt, as always.
"Human rights were not a European invention," he said. "For thousands of years, while Europeans were still living in caves, concepts of human rights and justice were already articulated in the teachings of the major Eastern philosophies and traditions."
It is no surprise that East Timorese believe in human rights and justice, but they apply these principles in their own way.
When United Nations experts came to help found a court system in the newborn nation three years ago, they brought with them an adversarial model in which a verdict emerges from opposing arguments.
It was a strange process, said an American lawyer who took part in the training. Culturally, she said, East Timorese tend to admit the crimes they have committed. To create a Western-style court system, she said, it was necessary to teach defendants to lie.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A billboard promoting social unity in the Burmese city of Yangon underscores Asia's traditional preference for the interests of the group instead of the individual, a cultural value that has long distinguished Asian from European civilization. (Stuart Isett/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); TRENDS (66%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (64%); CHILD LABOR (64%); SCANDALS (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); MYANMAR (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



347 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Turmoil in the Andes 

 BODY:
The particulars of their individual stories vary, but in recent years all five Andean nations of South America have suffered crippling bouts of political violence and instability. President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada's hasty escape from his presidential palace in Bolivia last month -- he hid in an ambulance to flee a riot -- was only the latest indication of just how tenuous democracy's hold is on the region. 
 Washington policy makers should approach the Andean region as a whole and work alongside other Latin American nations, like Brazil and Mexico, to strengthen democracy in the region. Too often in the past, America's approach has been scattershot. 
 Colombia, the third-largest recipient of American foreign assistance, is a case in point. Under Plan Colombia, the Bush and Clinton administrations have poured billions of dollars into fighting that nation's drug trafficking, which finances violent left-wing guerrilla groups and right-wing paramilitaries. The effort is now starting to reduce coca cultivation, but there are signs that such farming is merely shifting to neighboring countries. 
Meanwhile, Colombia's guerrillas recently killed one American contract employee and kidnapped three others involved in the antidrug effort. The Bush administration has sent in 150 more military personnel to assist in the search for them, raising the alarming possibility that Americans could become directly engaged in the conflict. 
Colombia, a nation where democracy and brutal civil warfare have tenuously coexisted for decades, deserves our support. But Colombians must do their own fighting, and American aid must remained conditioned on the Colombian military's respect for human rights. 
Elsewhere, the region is disillusioned with the last decade's free-market reforms. Too often twisted into a corrosive form of crony capitalism, the "Washington consensus" did little to improve living standards or alleviate poverty. The economic disillusionment has devalued the appeal of democracy as a form of governance and empowered once-marginalized political forces. 
In Venezuela, a country of great strategic importance given its vast oil reserves, a demagogic president, Hugo Chavez, has shown that a populist backlash can be as destructive as corrupt political establishments that pay lip service to free markets. Encouragingly, Presidents Alejandro Toledo of Peru and Lucio Gutierrez of Ecuador appear inclined to follow a more responsible middle course. 
Their challenge is to please international capital markets and internal demands for a more equitable distribution of national wealth, and to do so simultaneously and at a difficult economic moment. America needs to be sympathetic, providing aid and promoting trade, but without being an overbearing pitchman for any one set of economic policies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CIVIL WAR (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (96%); BOLIVIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%) LATIN AMERICA; COLOMBIA; BOLIVIA; VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



348 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Is Scouting Midtown as Site for New Headquarters 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Bank of America is working on tentative plans for a new headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, possibly on 42nd Street, New York's boulevard of dreams. The prospect is causing enthusiasm bordering on giddiness among developers and state and city officials.
 The bank, which has thousands of employees at several Manhattan locations, has been meeting in recent weeks with developers like Douglas Durst of the Durst Organization and Richard Clark of Brookfield Financial Properties, as well as public officials, to discuss its search for a new one-million-square-foot home. 
 But the prospect of a new skyscraper is one of the few bright spots in an otherwise gloomy picture, with companies shedding employees and the vacancy rate more than doubling in the last two years. Analysts say that New York clearly remains an important international capital but that the weak state of the real estate market throws dark shadows over the city's plans for commercial development downtown and on the far west side of Manhattan. 
"They're betting on a demand that just isn't there," said Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and urban planning at New York University. "It's excessively rosy. We don't want to end up with a bunch of white elephants."
In recent weeks, the city has been stung by news that New York Life, the insurance company, is moving 1,000 employees to Westchester from Madison Avenue, as part of a trend to disperse corporate offices in the wake of the attack on the World Trade Center. In a cost-cutting move, Philip Morris USA is relocating its longtime headquarters and 682 jobs from Park Avenue to Richmond, Va. 
AIG, the insurance giant, is moving 800 jobs to Jersey City from Lower Manhattan, where it is one of the largest employers, with a current work force of 6,024.
So it is no surprise, one state official said, that public officials and the real estate industry are excited about Bank of America's plans, even if the bank does not even want to move into a new home until 2007. After all, Bank of America is growing, unlike most of the major commercial and investment banks in the city. Indeed, an analyst at Lehman Brothers estimates that an additional 20,000 commodity and security brokers in the city will lose their jobs over the next year or so.
Peter G. Riguardi, president of Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate company working for the bank, declined to comment.
But one real estate executive who has met with the bank's real estate team said, "They appear to be very serious about consolidation and going into a new development."
One developer added that the bank was trying to take advantage of a weak real estate market to make a deal. "They want a world-class headquarters at a bargain-basement price," he said.
The bank, which leases space at 9 West 57th Street and several other locations, has talked to Brookfield Financial Properties about the tower Brookfield is building at Madison Avenue and 42nd Street. The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, which was supposed to occupy the entire building, has decided to take only 375,000 square feet and sublease the remaining 765,000.
A more likely candidate for a site, city and state officials said, is at 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas, where Douglas Durst has long wanted to build a skyscraper. The two sides have met several times and Mr. Durst has asked state officials if they would condemn a handful of properties he does not already own on the block.
The bank is paying some of the highest rents in the city, real estate brokers said, and could easily move into a new building at a lower rent. But even at the peak of the city's real estate boom, in 2000, Mr. Durst and other developers found it hard to snare a major tenant. It is unclear, the brokers said, whether Bank of America will make a deal.
Whatever happens, Bank of America has established itself as an exceptional tenant in the current market, where many corporations are cutting payrolls and office space. According to Cushman & Wakefield, vacant office space in Manhattan today totals 47.7 million square feet, the equivalent of more than 20 Empire State Buildings.
Real estate brokers say more space has come on the market than has been leased in the last year. The law firm of Pillsbury Winthrop, for instance, is close to leasing 200,000 square feet at the Bertelsmann Building in Times Square. When it does, it will leave behind a similar-size space downtown, where it had made its home for almost 150 years.
Few analysts expect that downtown space to fill up soon, especially since the financial industry, one of the city's most important economic engines, is shrinking and sending more jobs outside Manhattan. For that reason, David Shulman, a real estate analyst for Lehman Brothers, described plans to build new office towers as "a bit exuberant."
In a speech to the New York City Partnership last week, Larry A. Silverstein, who took the lease on the World Trade Center towers just before they were destroyed by terrorists in September 2001, said he expected to complete the first two-million-square-foot tower at the site in 2008, followed by four more two-million-square-foot office buildings.
And Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff hopes to redevelop the far West Side of Manhattan, with plans calling for another five million square feet of office space in that neighborhood between 2010 and 2014.
City officials and some developers say that when a turnaround comes, they expect the city's economy to rebound as quickly as it did in the 1990's, when according to Insignia ESG, a real estate broker, the amount of vacant space in the city dropped from 51.8 million square feet in 1996 to 17.8 million in 2001 as companies expanded. But during what was arguably the biggest real estate boom in city history, only seven office towers were built.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The northwest corner of West 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas is a possible site for Bank of America's new one-million-square-foot home. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) Map of Manhattan highlighting the site of possible development: Douglas Durst has long wanted to build a skyscraper at this site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%) BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (57%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (56%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (54%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JLL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



349 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: 3rd-Quarter Profit Falls 25% at Heinz 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, March 11 

 BODY:
The H. J. Heinz Company said today that its fiscal third-quarter earnings fell 25 percent, reduced by costs for spinning off some underperforming units to the Del Monte Foods Company in December, but its underlying profit beat expectations.
 Heinz posted net income of $151.6 million, or 43 cents a share, compared with $201.7 million, or 57 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 Excluding deal-related costs, earnings were $191.5 million, or 54 cents a share, compared with $161.2 million, or 46 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. On that basis, the results beat Wall Street estimates by 2 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call.
Sales from continuing operations rose 9.1 percent, to $2.1 billion, helped by better pricing, improved foreign currency rates and acquisitions. But overall shipments fell 1.9 percent, hurt by inflation in some foreign markets and the elimination of some unprofitable product lines. More than half of Heinz's business is outside the United States.
The company told analysts that it was also hurt by weakness in its food service business.
Heinz said it still expected full-year earnings of $2 to $2.05 a share.
In the quarter, Heinz took pretax charges of $81.5 million, primarily for costs related to the Del Monte deal, to reduce overhead in remaining businesses and for a loss on the divestiture of a Canadian fish and frozen vegetable business.
Shares of Heinz, based in Pittsburgh, rose 26 cents, to $29.70. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%) COMPANY REPORTS; FOOD 

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (97%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HEINZ, H J, CO 

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (97%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (97%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (97%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (97%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (92%) SIC2033 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



350 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Volkswagen Sees Falling Profits And Frail Market 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 11 

 BODY:
In another blow to the staggering German economy, the country's largest automobile maker, Volkswagen, said today that its first-quarter profit would fall significantly below that of last year and that its full-year operating profit might also decline.
 The gloomy outlook by Volkswagen's chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, led to a panicky sell-off of VW shares, which spread to the broader German market and the shares of other carmakers. Volkswagen's stock fell 7.4 percent, to 30.19 euros, or $33.30. Shares of Renault, Peugeot, BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Ford and General Motors also closed lower. 
 "Due to profound changes and considerable uncertainty in the economic and political framework, the result for the first quarter of 2003 will be significantly lower than the previous year," Mr. Pischetsrieder said at Volkswagen's annual financial news conference in Dresden.
Unless the American and West European markets strengthen considerably, he said, VW would not be able to match its 2002 operating profit of 4.76 billion euros, or about $5.25 billion. That result was itself a disappointment, representing a 12 percent decline from 2001.
In addition to weakness in its main markets, Volkswagen said, it had been stung by the rise in the exchange value of the euro against the dollar. The company has hedged about 40 percent of its risk from currency fluctuations, which still leaves much of its dollar-denominated profits vulnerable to the stronger euro.
Volkswagen's comments were the first clear indication that the euro was hurting German industry. Officials at the European Central Bank and the Bundesbank have said that the common currency is not yet biting into exports, despite its rise of more than 25 percent against the dollar in the last year.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany has warned that a war in Iraq would further hurt his country's economy, which is nearing 11 percent unemployment and is at risk of its second recession in two years.
Moreover, some German auto executives recently raised fears with Mr. Schroder that his unwavering opposition to an American-led war could provoke a reaction among consumers in the United States.
Beyond all these unfavorable trends, Volkswagen's product lineup is about to undergo a major overhaul, with redesigned models of the best-selling Golf and the popular Passat sedan. While customers wait for the new cars, sales of the existing Golf and Passat models are expected to sag.
"Their Golf and Passat lines are getting old," said Lars Ziehn, an automotive analyst with Deutsche Bank. " '04 and '05 should be Volkswagen years, but the market is driven by today's news."
Mr. Ziehn estimates that Volkswagen's pretax profit in 2003 will be 15 percent lower than last year. He said the company's refusal to offer its own profit projections further rattled the market.
Volkswagen has also been struggling with quality problems. It recently agreed to replace ignition coils in potentially more than 500,000 VW and Audi models in North America because some were defective.
The company says it has the problem, which began cropping up last fall, under control. But its response was sluggish, and its image in the United States took a beating. Mr. Ziehn said the cost would be covered by reserves and probably did not play a role in today's poor forecast. 
Volkswagen did manage to eke out a 4.5 percent increase in vehicle deliveries in January and February. But that was chiefly a result of the buoyant Chinese market, in which VW has a strong presence.
The company reported that its net profit slipped 11 percent in 2002, to 2.58 billion euros, or $2.85 billion. Revenue declined 1.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Volkswagen's chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, visited an assembly line yesterday in Dresden, Germany, for a new premium car, the Phaeton. Later, he told a financial news conference that VW profit would decline. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) Chart: "VW Surprise"Volkswagen's sales and profits weakened last year, and will be significantly lower in 2003, the company said. Graph tracks sales* and profit/loss* (after taxes) from 1994-2002. *Converted at $1.1031 a euro. (Source: Volkswagen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (93%); VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (93%); VKW (LSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%) LANDLER, MARK; PISCHETSRIEDER, BERND 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



351 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists on Both Sides Duel in the Medical Malpractice Debate 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11 

 BODY:
Few people noticed the lobbyist hovering in the background when Mary Rasar came to the Capitol last week to tell the story of her father's death.
 With three Republican senators by her side, and a gaggle of reporters before her, Ms. Rasar recounted how her father was injured in a car accident in Las Vegas the day after high liability premiums forced the local trauma center to close. He died in an emergency room -- "a tragic, tragic story," said Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, vowing to press for caps on jury awards in malpractice cases. 
 Their joint appearance was arranged by the lobbyist, William Nixon, as another salvo in a war of dueling images in the medical malpractice debate. For weeks, trial lawyers and consumer groups fighting against caps have been bringing malpractice victims to the Capitol -- including a 17-year-old girl whose face had been ruined by botched surgeries and a woman whose breasts had been removed unnecessarily after a doctor wrongly diagnosed cancer. So Mr. Nixon, who represents hospitals, fired back with Ms. Rasar. 
"The point," he said, "is to demonstrate that there are legitimate victims on both sides."
With the House expected on Thursday to take up legislation imposing a $250,000 cap on "pain and suffering" awards in malpractice cases, and the Senate planning to tackle medical liability later this month, lobbyists on both sides have been working at a fever pitch. The bill is expected to pass the House, but will probably face difficulty in the Senate, where some prominent Republicans say it must include an exception for egregious cases like that of Jesica Santillan, the 17-year-old who died after receiving a heart and lung of the wrong blood type.
Limiting jury awards has long been a high priority for Republicans and business interests, who believe malpractice legislation could open the door to a broader tort reform agenda. President Bush has been attacking trial lawyers -- and, by extension, the Democrats they support -- for "frivolous lawsuits," and he has invited a dozen House members to the White House on Wednesday to try to increase support for the House measure. With the president's backing and Republicans' running both the House and Senate, proponents say their goal is within reach.
"This is the first time in a decade that there has been an opportunity for real legal reform," said Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, which represents managed care organizations. "All the key actors in the health care system are now united."
Mr. Nixon's client, the Coalition for Affordable and Reliable Health Care, is a perfect example. It was founded last September by the Baylor Health Care System in Texas and several other hospitals with one goal, overhauling malpractice law to bring down insurance premiums. "For the first time," he said, "they feel they are in striking distance."
The debate has also made for new lobbying alliances on Capitol Hill, and shattered some old ones. Last year, the American Medical Association, which represents doctors, was working hand in hand with the Association of Trial Lawyers of America -- and against Ms. Ignagni's group -- to promote legislation enabling patients to sue their health insurers. Now, the A.M.A. has joined with the insurance industry. Lobbyists for the trial lawyers complain they cannot get the doctors to talk to them.
Dr. Donald A. Palmisano, the A.M.A.'s president-elect, says revamping liability laws is the association's No. 1 legislative priority. He recalled meeting President Bush in July in High Point, N.C., on the day the president gave his first speech on the topic.
"He looked right at me and he said, 'We can get medical liability reform now if you will go to the grass roots,' " Dr. Palmisano said.
To that end, the association is trying to raise $15 million for a nationwide media campaign. Doctors around the country have rallied to the cause, waging a series of highly publicized walkouts and protests. Though local chapters have been behind the rallies, Dr. Palmisano has been flying around the country to attend them. The powerful images have not been lost on lawmakers.
"They've demonstrated with their feet," said Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which last week sent the malpractice bill to the full House for a vote.
Mr. Tauzin was among several Republicans, including President Bush, who addressed more than 600 doctors last week at the A.M.A.'s National Advocacy Conference. Over breakfast of eggs, toast, peaches and sausage, the doctor-lobbyists, who later fanned out across Capitol Hill, got some friendly advice from Senator Bill Frist -- the Republican leader and a heart transplant surgeon.
Do not be satisfied with seeing Congressional staffs, Dr. Frist advised, adding, "Say, 'I just want to see the senator for two minutes.' "
In addition to the war of images, there has been a war of words and numbers, with proponents trying to link high liability premiums to high jury awards, and opponents trying to disprove a link, in part by citing studies showing the influence of larger economic trends on insurance costs. Last week, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, announced a new study that found "the main factor causing the crisis is the rise in mega-awards and settlements," including jury awards that can exceed $1 million. Opponents responded with their own statistics, from the government's National Practitioner Data Bank, showing the average jury verdict, far from being in the millions, is roughly $400,000 and the average settlement about $200,000.
"It's like an escalating arms race, but with disinformation," said Jamie Court, executive director of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, the advocacy group that put out the lower figures. "There is so much floating information around that no one knows what to believe, and almost every statistic becomes useless."
Also floating around, this being Washington, is money. Proponents of malpractice change include some of Washington's most powerful and well-financed lobbies. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign spending, the A.M.A. contributed $2.7 million to candidates in the 2002 election cycle, with 60 percent going to Republicans. The American Hospital Association, which strongly backs malpractice law changes, gave $1.9 million, 53 percent of it to Republicans.
But the opponents are also well financed. The trial lawyers contributed $3.7 million in the 2002 election cycle, 89 percent of it to Democrats.
"I've been working this for 20 years, and it has often seemed very close," said Linda Lipsen, who is running the trial lawyers' lobbying effort. Recently, the group brought 120 members to Washington to knock on lawmakers' doors. "It's very arduous," Ms. Lipsen said, "but we feel like if we can tell the story of the patients that our lawyers represent, the justice system should prevail." 
And so, almost daily, those stories are being told. Last month, the Center for Justice and Democracy, a consumer group, brought 30 victims of medical malpractice to Washington, and staged a "rump hearing" before Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee. The patients ran the gamut, from a man whose right lung was removed after doctors discovered a tumor in the left lung to Linda McDougal, the woman who underwent an unnecessary double mastectomy after pathologists erroneously diagnosed breast cancer.
On Wednesday, the day before the House is scheduled to vote, the trial lawyers will be bringing Ms. McDougal back to the Capitol, for an appearance with the minority leader of the Senate, Tom Daschle, and his counterpart in the House, Nancy Pelosi. But Mr. Nixon, the hospital lobbyist, is ready. He is bringing back Ms. Rasar, for an appearance with Speaker J. Dennis Hastert.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda McDougal on her way to testify before Congress. (Craig Lassig for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (92%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DAMAGES (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRAUMA CENTERS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); TORTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TORT REFORM (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MALPRACTICE; HOSPITALS; INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: BAYLOR HEALTH CARE SYSTEM (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ENSIGN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



352 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investigates Another Ex-Aide to Rowland 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, March 11 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors are investigating whether Gov. John G. Rowland's former co-chief of staff, Peter N. Ellef, orchestrated a bribery scheme to steer state construction projects to a contractor, federal and state officials said today.
 On Monday, Lawrence E. Alibozek, Governor Rowland's deputy chief of staff from October 1997 to July 1999, admitted in Federal District Court here that he took an unspecified amount of cash and gold for steering state building projects worth tens of millions of dollars to a company that the government did not identify. 
 In an interview today, Mr. Rowland said that in November and December, a federal grand jury issued two subpoenas to his office seeking information about Mr. Alibozek and Mr. Ellef. The subpoenas also asked for any documents pertaining to several construction and management companies owned by William Tomasso, Mr. Rowland said. Mr. Tomasso, of New Britain, is a close friend of Mr. Rowland's and a major contributor to his political campaigns. 
Officials close to the investigation of Mr. Alibozek said the government was now trying to determine whether Mr. Ellef, who was known as an influential adviser and an aggressive political enforcer for the governor, knew about or participated in the bribery scheme.
The guilty plea and the revelations of the corruption investigation are the latest in a series of scandals in Mr. Rowland's eight years in office, but they have had little effect on his popularity. Last November, Mr. Rowland, a Republican, was re-elected to a third term by a wide margin.
In 1999, his state treasurer, Paul J. Silvester, a rising star in the administration, pleaded guilty to investing Connecticut's pension fund with companies that paid kickbacks to Mr. Silvester's friends and family. Several months later, Ben F. Andrews, who ran unsuccessfully for secretary of the state on Mr. Rowland's 1998 ticket, was indicted on charges that he had a role in Mr. Silvester's "pay-to-play" scheme.
Last year, after the state's trash authority revealed it had lost nearly $200 million in public money in a complex deal with Enron, federal investigators began looking into whether the authority's lobbyist, Linda Kowalski, improperly paid for meals and entertainment for Mr. Rowland and his staff.
As public scrutiny of the Enron deal intensified, Mr. Rowland last year dismissed Mr. Ellef, who was the chairman of the trash authority as well Mr. Rowland's co-chief of staff.
This week, the United States attorney's office in Connecticut asked six state agencies, including the Departments of Transportation, Children and Family Services, Public Works and Economic and Community Development, to turn over any documents relating to Mr. Ellef's daily schedule, phone records and appointments, Mr. Rowland said.
In a departure from his normal procedure, Mr. Rowland spoke to a dozen reporters today in individual 15-minute interviews in his office, instead of addressing them collectively in a news conference and facing a barrage of quesitons.
In his interview with The New York Times, Mr. Rowland said that he knew nothing of Mr. Alibozek's bribe-taking and that government lawyers had told him that he was not a subject of their corruption investigation.
"I'm very disappointed and surprised at the reports and the plea," Mr. Rowland said today. He dismissed any suggestion that he should have known that Mr. Alibozek was involved in wrongdoing or that the two men's friendship with Mr. Tomasso played a role in Mr. Alibozek's crime.
"Both of these gentlemen have stellar recommendations and credentials," Mr. Rowland said. Appearing uncharacteristically confused, he then said: "They're not political people. It's not like they are political appointees," though Mr. Ellef and Mr. Alibozek each served at the pleasure of the governor.
Calls to Mr. Tomasso's offices in New Britain were not returned today.
Mr. Ellef's lawyer, Hugh F. Keefe, said today that he was not aware of any evidence that his client had committed a crime or was involved in wrongdoing.
"I have no reason to believe, at this point, that Ellef is a target," Mr. Keefe said. 
Mr. Ellef and Mr. Alibozek were known to be close, having met while both worked at Cigna, an employee benefits company. When Mr. Rowland appointed Mr. Ellef state economic development commissioner in 1995, Mr. Alibozek became deputy commissioner. When the governor named Mr. Ellef his co-chief of staff, Mr. Alibozek again moved with him, becoming his deputy.
Three years ago, Mr. Alibozek left state government briefly. He started a tree nursery that failed about five months later, and he returned to state government in January 2000 as the head of the state agency for the blind. In March 2001, he left to become deputy commissioner of the Military Department.
Under his plea agreement, Mr. Alibozek, 58, of New Hartford, could be imprisoned for 24 to 30 months and fined as much as $50,000, terms that could be reduced if he continues cooperating with prosecutors, federal officials said.
William T. Gerace, Mr. Alibozek's lawyer, said today that his client was devastated by his felony conviction. 
"He's a very proud man," Mr. Gerace said. "He's been a responsible and diligent public official for most of his career. This is just a lapse in judgment. He can't explain it himself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter N. Ellef, left, faces scrutiny; Lawrence E. Alibozek made a deal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); SUBPOENAS (91%); BRIBERY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); FAMILY (68%); ETHICS (65%); FAMILY SERVICES (63%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BRIBERY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ELLEF, PETER; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); ALIBOZEK, LAWRENCE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



353 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER SETTLEMENT: ASSESSMENT; 
Theaters Tally Their Financial Losses as Unions Contemplate Act II

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
In a business in which a couple of bad weeks can mean the end of the run, Tuesdays on Broadway are traditionally when productions take stock, review the previous week's box-office receipts and decide how -- and whether -- to proceed. 
 This particular Tuesday was especially grim. According to statistics compiled by the League of American Theaters and Producers, every musical on Broadway -- except one, "Cabaret," which played a normal schedule because of a different contract -- lost substantial amounts of money over the weekend as shows were canceled because of the musicians' strike. 
 As a whole, the industry brought in a measly $5.2 million last week, compared with the $12.2 million it earned the week ending on March 2. 
The week's losses ran into the hundreds of thousands of dollars each for nearly a dozen shows, including "42nd Street," "Aida," "Beauty and the Beast," "Chicago," "Flower Drum Song," "La Boheme," "Thoroughly Modern Millie," "Les Miserables" and "The Phantom of the Opera." 
Even Broadway's biggest hits -- like "Mamma Mia!," "Hairspray" and "The Producers" -- suffered losses, while some of its new, lesser-known shows simply bled red ink; "Urban Cowboy," for example, a musical in previews, brought in only $39,937 in five performances, representing a loss of about $400,000.
"Had it gone beyond Thursday," Leonard Soloway, a producer of "Urban Cowboy," said of the strike, "I don't know if we would have made the opening."
That seemed to be the consensus: a quick end to the strike prevented a quick end to many shows. Delays notwithstanding, Mr. Soloway promised that his show would open as scheduled on March 27 at the Broadhurst Theater. Even the producers of "Flower Drum Song," who said they would close early because of the strike, said yesterday that the show would play its final week and close as scheduled on Sunday.
Still, while Mr. Soloway and other producers assessed the strike's economic impact on their individual shows, others on Broadway mulled over how the four-day strike might affect future labor negotiations, including talks next year between the league and Actors' Equity Association, the union for actors and stage managers.
Actors' Equity stood by the musicians' union, Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, by honoring its picket lines, as did the stagehands' union, Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. (Local 1's contract expires in 2005.) That solidarity assured that Local 802 would back Actors' Equity in its negotiations, said many in the industry.
Bill Dennison, assistant to the president of Local 802, called the support from the actors and stagehands a "historic achievement."
"This has never happened before on Broadway or in the entertainment industry," Mr. Dennison said yesterday. "In previous strikes involving multicraft union situations, I don't know of any circumstances where the unions honored a single union's picket line." 
The walkout by all three major unions sets "exactly the right tone for the actors' negotiations," he said. "Unions are not going to buckle under."
The assistance of the musicians' union is considered particularly important for the actors' union because one of its major issues is the increase of nonunion national tours. In the past union musicians have failed to honor actors' requests to not play these nonunion tours; now rank-and-file actors expect musicians to repay their loyalty. 
Alan Eisenberg, the executive director of Actor's Equity, denied that there was any quid-pro-quo discussion before actors decided to honor the picket lines, but conceded that his membership now expected support from the musicians' union.
"That seems to be the consensus," Mr. Eisenberg said. Actors' Equity "went out for the principle of live music; the membership was uniform in that," he said.
Still, Mr. Eisenberg also suggested that his union's decision to stand by the musicians might have angered producers enough to complicate the coming negotiations. 
Jed Bernstein, the president of the theater league, had no comment on that suggestion, but did say that the unions were not the only party to stick together.
"I think that both sides showed strong solidarity," Mr. Bernstein said. "Certainly the unions, in standing up for each other, but management also, by supporting each other's position through several difficult weeks."
While the sight of actors carrying union picket signs may be one of the strike's indelible images, does it truly signal a new age of unity among Broadway unions, which have not always seen eye to eye? 
Labor leaders said they were hopeful. James Claffey Jr., the business manager for Local 1, the stagehand's union, said that the crisis on Broadway after Sept. 11, 2001 -- when the entire industry shut down for two days -- has led to greater communication between the 13 unions that represent all segments of Broadway workers. That new cooperation, which includes monthly meetings among representatives from every union, is being felt in negotiations, he said. 
"I think we've found out that's the only way to move forward," Mr. Claffey said. "And I think our membership expects it now."
Future negotiations were far from the minds of most producers yesterday; they concentrated on getting the curtains back up and on bringing the money back in.
Mr. Soloway, for example, was still figuring out how much four days off the job had cost him. 
Before the strike, he had spent $100,000 on extra rehearsals for his cast members with the so-called virtual orchestra, which the producers had planned to use instead of striking musicians. Now he is spending extra money on stagehands to make up for lost time. 
"Work that we would have done in the afternoons we now have to do in the mornings before rehearsal," Mr. Soloway said. "But, listen, let's just say: I'm glad it's over." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STRIKES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); TICKET SALES (72%) THEATER; FINANCES; STRIKES; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



354 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY; 
Rangers Obtain Oilers' Carter On Day of Trades

BYLINE:  By JASON DIAMOS 

DATELINE: GREENBURGH, N.Y., March 11 

 BODY:
The National Hockey League trading deadline passed today with a record 24 trades involving 46 players as some teams tried to make a final push to qualify for the Stanley Cup playoffs while others bolstered their rosters with veterans they believe will help them win the Cup.
 The Rangers, in danger of missing the playoffs for a sixth consecutive season, made perhaps the biggest splash by acquiring the high-scoring forward Anson Carter from the Edmonton Oilers. In exchange, the Oilers, who are clinging to the final Western Conference playoff berth, received right wing Radek Dvorak, who has scored six goals in 63 games, and defenseman Cory Cross. The Rangers also acquired Ales Pisa, a 26-year-old defenseman, in the deal. "I think we got one of the best forwards out there today, maybe the best forward," Glen Sather, the Rangers' president, general manager and coach, said. 
 The 6-foot-1, 200-pound Carter, who led the Oilers with 25 goals and 55 assists, becomes the franchise's most prominent black player since Tony McKegney, who was at the end of his career when he joined the Rangers in 1986.
The Detroit Red Wings, the defending Stanley Cup champions, paid a high price to acquire the veteran defenseman Mathieu Schneider from Los Angeles, shipping defenseman Maxim Kuznetsov, center Sean Avery, a first-round pick in the 2003 draft and a second-round pick in the 2004 draft to the Kings.
Toronto obtained the veteran center Doug Gilmour from Montreal and the veteran defenseman Phil Housley from Chicago to supplement its earlier acquisitions of forward Owen Nolan from San Jose and defenseman Glen Wesley from Carolina.
The Islanders shipped goaltender Chris Osgood to St. Louis, while shoring up their defense with the acquisition of Janne Niinimaa from Edmonton, along with a second-round pick, for forwards Brad Isbister and Raffi Torres.
Sather, who had several conversations with Oilers General Manager Kevin Lowe, said he had inquired about Niinimaa, but it was only this morning that he learned that Lowe was willing to trade Carter, who can become a restricted free agent.
"And I don't think you can pass on these kind of guys," said Sather, who engineered one of the biggest trades of the season on Jan. 10, when he obtained Aleksei Kovalev from Pittsburgh in an eight-player deal that also included a payment of nearly $4 million to the Penguins.
"He's a hockey player," Sather said of Carter, who was born in Toronto and starred at Michigan State. "When you make a deal like this, the only thing I'm concerned about is whether he's a good player and a good person. And he's both."
Carter is scheduled to join the Rangers on Wednesday and be in the lineup Thursday against the Senators.
Dvorak, 25, was called off the ice as the Rangers gathered for practice at noon and then quickly departed for home to pack. His departure leaves Petr Nedved as the only remaining member of the Rangers' Czech line.
"With all these rumors and always my name was mentioned, I was expecting something," Dvorak, who was acquired by the Rangers from Florida on Dec. 30, 1999, said in a telephone interview. "I'm going to a young team that's in the playoffs right now, and I went for a good player. That's nice. I know I can help Edmonton."
In a televised news conference, Lowe, who succeeded Sather as the general manager in Edmonton, defended his decision to trade his leading scorer for a player who had struggled with his confidence until recently.
"Time will tell," Lowe said of Dvorak, who scored a career-best 31 goals two seasons ago, then slumped to 17 last season before undergoing season-ending reconstructive knee surgery. "It's taken him some time, like a lot of players who have had knee operations, to get back their stride. But he has been, and will be, a goal scorer in this league."
Sather was not so sure.
"I thought in the last 10 days he had really started to turn it around," Sather said of Dvorak. "But I never thought he was a pure goal scorer. Even in practice, he had trouble scoring goals. He was getting his confidence back. But this guy is a different player altogether."
Sather was referring to Carter, who is earning $2.4 million this season and will be eligible for arbitration in the summer. Dvorak, meanwhile, is making $1.575 million this season and will make $2 million next season.
Lowe insisted that financial considerations were not the primary factor in his decisions to trade Carter and Niinimaa.
"But when you play in a small market like Edmonton, economics are always a factor," Carter said.

SLAP SHOTS
Defenseman JANNE LAUKKANEN, who had not played for the Rangers since being obtained on Jan. 10 from Pittsburgh in the deal for ALEKSEI KOVALEV, was claimed off waivers by Tampa Bay. . . . No one was sorrier than DARIUS KASPARAITIS to see CORY CROSS be traded. Kasparaitis, who had a plus-minus rating of minus-17, the worst among defensemen in the league, on Dec. 26, is plus-18 since Dec. 28, and is now plus-1 for the season. "He got me to plus, now he's gone," Kasparaitis said of his defensive partner. . . . ALES PISA's plus-minus rating of plus-11 was tied for the Edmonton team lead. In 48 games this season, Pisa has a goal and three assists for 4 points. . . . In a swap of minor leaguers, the Rangers obtained defenseman LAWRENCE NYCHOLAT from Minnesota for goaltender JOHAN HOLMQVIST. Nycholat has 155 penalty minutes at Houston of the American Hockey League this season. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); VETERANS (77%) HOCKEY, ICE; TRADES (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: EDMONTON OILERS (98%); NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%); DETROIT RED WINGS (55%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (54%) NEW YORK RANGERS; EDMONTON OILERS 

PERSON: DIAMOS, JASON; DVORAK, RADEK; CARTER, ANSON; CROSS, CORY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%) ALBERTA, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (75%); WEST USA (72%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



355 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 60 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing New England: Maine: Brain Drain 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 College graduates tend to leave the state because they believe that employment opportunities are better elsewhere, a state report has found. The study, by the Finance Authority of Maine and the University of Southern Maine, found that more than half of the state's college graduates in 1998 wanted to live and work in Maine, but three of four ultimately left.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (85%) LABOR; POPULATION SHIFTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) MAINE

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



356 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Doorman Union Begins Contract Talks 

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 With a contract deadline six weeks away, the union representing 28,000 doormen, janitors and elevator operators at 3,000 New York City apartment buildings began negotiations yesterday. 
A settlement is likely to be difficult because of hard times for the city's economy and real estate industry. The union and building owners and managers agree that raises are likely to be the toughest issue because management is proposing a wage freeze with a lump sum in several years, while the union wants annual raises to keep up with inflation. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (83%) BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; LABOR 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



357 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times For the City Are Lingering 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
New York City's recession has now lasted two full years, according to a report on the last quarter of 2002 issued yesterday by the city's comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr. 
 Jobs and tax collections fell during the last three months of 2002, as the rate of inflation and office vacancies increased. And the city's economy continued to shrink, even as the nation's grew. "It is imperative that we work to quickly decrease the burden this recession has placed on our budget," Mr. Thompson said in a statement. 
 The report found that the city lost 29,000 jobs in the fourth quarter -- which was its worst quarterly drop in a decade, with the exception of the quarter that immediately followed the World Trade Center attack. The city's unemployment rate rose to 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter of the year, well above the nation's 5.9 percent unemployment rate. During all of 2002, it said, the private sector lost 88,300 jobs. 
The inflation rate in the metropolitan region rose to 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter on an annual basis, up from 2.6 percent in the third quarter. The report said that it gave New York the fourth-highest inflation rate of the nation's 14 largest metropolitan areas. The report also said that the gross city product, a measure of economic activity, fell by 2.2 percent in 2002, which is significantly worse than the 0.3 percent drop in 2001. While the city's economy declined in the fourth quarter, the nation's grew moderately.
The lingering recession is bad news for the city's budget makers, who several times have had to scale back their estimates of how much the cash-starved city would collect in taxes this year. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council are grappling with how to close a deficit of roughly $3.5 billion in the fiscal year beginning July 1. 
With few signs that the economy will take off in time to fill the city's coffers, Mayor Bloomberg is increasingly looking to Albany and the city's labor unions for help. City agencies are due to report back to the mayor today with their plans for cutting $600 million in case the unions do not come through. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; TAXATION; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) COOPER, MICHAEL; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



358 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Hours of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Eighteen hours, three news conferences and several cups of coffee. That is often the life of the person in charge of New York City. 
 It was that way Monday evening and on into Tuesday, a time that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hinted during the campaign he might shy away from. But it is the sort that ultimately defines him in the collective eyes of the city he runs. 
 In that span, Mr. Bloomberg experienced the mayoral lifestyle that has drawn some men to the job but has kept others from taking it on. 
"Being mayor means facing our city at its best and worst moments," said Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, who was with him most of Monday night into Tuesday morning. "But no night reflected that better than Monday night."
The mayor began Monday evening the way he often ends it, at a gala event, this time for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The evening quickly evolved into a marathon of diverse and difficult tasks, as he sprinted from a meeting at Gracie Mansion, where he intervened in the Broadway musicians' strike, to a hospital in Staten Island, where he met families of two slain police officers. 
At 5:30 p.m., Mr. Bloomberg was swearing in Robert B. Tierney as chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission at Gracie Mansion. He then made his way to the Waldorf-Astoria for the Hall of Fame induction. So far, it was standard mayoral stuff. 
Then aides traveling with him got a call with one of the most dreaded messages in government -- 10-13, officer down. The mayor decided to go on with his schedule, until he had more information. 
Mr. Bloomberg quickly made his way through his ceremonial duties at the rock induction ceremony. Around 8:40 p.m., he went back to Gracie Mansion, and at 9:15 he made his pitch to Broadway producers and musicians -- who had been on strike all weekend -- to end their differences immediately. 
"He was impressing upon them that there were far-reaching and damaging effects that the strike was having on the economy," Mr. Skyler said. "He said to them as a group that there were ramifications beyond their immediate industries, and that he had been involved in many deals, and that you never get everything you want." 
Asked outside Gracie Mansion by reporters if he had pressured the parties, Mr. Bloomberg said: "I didn't threaten them at all. I pointed out that 38,000 uniformed members of the N.Y.P.D. were standing around the building."
The mayor soon departed, leaving the theater people and musicians to resume talks over endless supplies of roast beef and turkey sandwiches, popcorn and warm chocolate chip cookies. 
"Sugar at 2 in the morning," said Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers. "Yes, it was a highlight."
Mr. Bloomberg and his aides were whisked from Gracie Mansion to the heliport on East 34th Street, where they took a helicopter to Staten Island. Grim details were beginning to emerge about the two officers. 
After a police shooting, several small dramas play out in various rooms of the hospital. There is the scene with visiting elected officials, another with uniformed officers, and sometimes there is the scene with members of a victim's unit, this time elite undercover officers dressed as thugs, down to gang tattoos. Many were sobbing.
Then there are the families. Mr. Bloomberg met with members from both men's families, who arrived in various stages of panic and despair. There was little to say at times, so the mayor just held some people's hands. 
"It was an extremely difficult and emotional time," said Vincent LaPadula, the senior adviser to the mayor.
One wife was so grief-stricken that she collapsed and had to be placed in a wheelchair. So Mr. Bloomberg squatted on the floor to be near her, Mr. LaPadula said. 
When she asked him over and over what she ought to tell her children, Mr. Bloomberg said, "Tell them he was a hero." 
At a news conference at 1:30 a.m. at the hospital, a furious and doleful mayor held his first middle-of-the-night briefing since he took office. The night was still young.
By 2:15 a.m., Mr. Bloomberg was back in his S.U.V. and on the way to Gracie Mansion, where he found negotiators making progress. He briefly told the group about where he had just been, then left at 3 a.m. for some sleep at his nearby town house.
By 6 a.m., he was up, reading the newspapers. At 7:45, he got the call that a Broadway deal had been struck, but he had committed himself to an event celebrating women's history month at Barnard College.
By 9:15 a.m., he was back at Gracie Mansion, where he was greeted with a round of applause. After a news conference there, it was off to City Hall for the day, where he held a quick briefing with officials from around the state who had planned for days to attend a joint news conference on Medicaid costs. 
By 11:15 a.m., his third news conference of the morning was in progress. It lasted half an hour and involved Medicaid costs and the city budget, a topic that remains with New York's mayor, 24 hours a day every day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg during the strike talks at Gracie Mansion, on a multiple-coffee kind of day. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (87%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STRIKES (75%); POP & ROCK (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); POLITICS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; THEATER; POLICE; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) ;AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



359 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Lays Siege to Mexico's Chief, and So Do Many Others 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 11 

 BODY:
It is now open season on President Vicente Fox.
 A verbal volley demanding his support at the United Nations for military action on Iraq is coming from American officials. Poison darts are flying from Mr. Fox's political opponents as midterm elections approach. Even the president's wife is under pointed personal attack. 
 Mr. Fox has sought to float above the fray, keeping to a grueling schedule of speeches and political rallies across the country. But today he went into an unusual political retreat at the presidential palace, canceling his public schedule, huddling with a few advisers, and contemplating his next move vis-a-vis Washington.
By day's end, Mr. Fox announced that he would undergo spinal surgery on Wednesday and remain out of public view until the weekend. While on the operating table, he will temporarily transfer presidential power to his interior minister, Santiago Creel. The unexpected surgery is likely only to prolong the diplomatic agony.
The new United States ambassador here, Tony Garza, a Texas friend of President Bush, has come very close to publicly demanding a yes vote from Mexico in support of the United States at the Security Council, where Mexico holds a swing vote among the 15 members. A maybe or an abstention is not good enough, Mr. Garza said Monday. 
"Will American attitudes be placated by half-steps or three-quarter-steps?" he said. "I kind of doubt it."
Supporting the United States could be political suicide at home, where an overwhelming majority of people oppose military action against Iraq. But being perceived in Washington as a traitor carries dangers too -- or so many Mexicans believe. 
In Mexico, therefore, Mr. Fox's decision is being seen as the defining moment for his presidency -- and for the country's complex relationship with its powerful neighbor.
"Are we going to be defined by our relationship by the United States or not?" asked Rossana Fuentes, a leading political analyst and managing editor of the foreign language edition of Foreign Affairs magazine. "There are some people in Mexico who'd like to turn the Rio Grande into the Atlantic Ocean, you know. We are still trying to sort out this fundamental question."
Mexico's economy, so dependent on the United States, is as flat as a desert landscape. When he took office, Mr. Fox promised 7 percent annual economic growth; he has produced almost none. In the capital, opposition politicians have charged, without proof, that Mr. Fox has taken illegal campaign contributions from the United States through a group called Friends of Fox; the president and his aides fiercely deny that.
Political life was sublime for Mr. Fox after July 2, 2000, the day he swept the old regime, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, from power after seven unbroken decades. 
For a year, he seemed above criticism. A year to the day after his election, on July 2, 2001, Mr. Fox surprised the nation by marrying his press spokeswoman, now Mrs. Marta de Fox. They went to Washington together for Mr. Bush's first state dinner, a week before the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States.
That summer well may have been the high-water mark of his presidency. Today Mr. Fox still radiates confidence, but his optimism is starting to ring hollow.
The political friction is affecting the prospects for congressional elections in July. Those midterm elections will determine whether Mr. Fox spends the next three years as a lame-duck president confronting a fiercely hostile Congress. Polls suggest that is a real possibility.
Mr. Fox's National Action Party, known as the PAN, is desperately seeking a plurality in the legislature, so as to pass some of his proposed legislation for changing Mexico.
But the old governing party, universally known as the PRI, now narrowly holds sway in Congress. If the PRI keeps that edge, Mr. Fox's unrealized agenda of economic, social and fiscal change for Mexico will be all but dead for the rest of the three years of his presidency.
Winning Congress "is the only way that the country can realize the change promised by President Fox and do away with the roadblocks to development," said the PAN's national leader, Luis Felipe Bravo Mena. "We can no longer postpone our future."
The leader of the PRI, Roberto Madrazo, believes the future belongs to him and his party.
"The president cannot hide his enormous failures, his lack of results," Mr. Madrazo said. "The president has lost the opportunity to head a transition government. His presidency is a government of words."
To wound President Fox, the PRI and its supporters are aiming pointed, personal attacks against Mrs. Fox. They paint her as a latter-day Eva Peron, a woman who has married her way to power. 
They accuse her of abusing that power for personal pleasure through the largesse of a private foundation she runs, called Let's Go, Mexico! The foundation is financed by Mrs. Fox's friends, both political and personal. 
President Fox may not have helped matters a few days ago by calling himself and his wife "the presidential couple."
"No, no, no!" said Rosario Robles, the leader of the Democratic Revolutionary Party, another opposition group, and a former mayor of Mexico City. "In Mexico there are no presidential couples. No more empires."
"If Vicente and Marta think they are Maximiliano and Carlota, that's a problem," she said, referring to the tragically inept emperor and empress of 19th-century Mexico.
Mrs. Fox has deflected the criticism by trying to turn the other cheek. "We have to forgive these people," she said. "They'd like a chance to serve their country, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox, center foreground, at a ride for peace this month. The United States is pressing him to support military action against Iraq. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TERRORISM (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES); WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%); IRAQ (94%) MEXICO; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



360 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Angels Were Mentioned in Contraction Talks Before Winning World Series

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
During much of 2001, before Major League Baseball announced and then backed off from eliminating two teams, one option was to buy out the Anaheim Angels and replace or merge them with the Oakland Athletics, according to informal notes and memos by high-level baseball officials.
 "That one was floated out there, but it was one of dozens and dozens of scenarios," Bob DuPuy, the president of Major League Baseball, said. "We were trying to be very, very thorough and looked at every possible contraction, realignment and relocation scenario." 
 If the Anaheim-Oakland option had been adopted when Commissioner Bud Selig and the baseball owners wanted to last season, the Angels would not have existed to win the World Series last year. 
As contraction targets, Anaheim and Oakland never rose to the level of serious candidates, as did Minnesota and Montreal. Anaheim is not a small-market team, but the Angels, even under the ownership of the Walt Disney Company, were in the Dodgers' shadow in Southern California until their World Series victory.
Oakland shares the Bay Area market with the San Francisco Giants, but by 2001 had become a strong team with a modest payroll, yet in need of a new stadium.
But baseball's due diligence in trying to improve its economics included analyzing all possible options, a process that started with examining 18 teams as possible contraction candidates, DuPuy said.
Steve Schott, co-owner of the A's, said his discussions with DuPuy and Paul Beeston, the former president of baseball, were "very general."
"I wouldn't call it a plan," he said. "It was an idea, and it was not detailed. We never got to escrow."
There had been a few newspaper reports about the Anaheim-Oakland concept, but baseball officials refused to confirm which teams were contraction targets. 
According to the documents, which were obtained by The New York Times, baseball officials divided eight contraction candidates into two tiers. The first four, presumably the ones with the most serious financial problems, were Montreal, Minnesota, Tampa Bay and San Diego.
On the second level were Arizona (because of its heavy debt load), Florida, Kansas City and Oakland.
To guide their work, baseball's lawyers provided a document for Beeston and DuPuy on Dec. 11, 2000, which detailed financial, media, legal and stadium issues facing some contraction targets, with a specific eye toward when leases and television contracts ended. It also briefly assessed political fallout.
For example, Oakland's lease at Network Associates Coliseum was then to expire at the end of 2001 and it had the right to terminate its cable television deal if it moved.
The document said that eliminating the Tampa Devil Rays was complicated by a dispute between its managing general partner and limited partners, "lender issues, including bankruptcy and liability to lenders" and "ticket holder or similar class action."
In July 2001, a new document listed the Oakland-Anaheim option.
"Angels want to 'sell,' " the document said. "Athletics want to move." The document said the plan would be "complicated by public ownership of Angels" by Disney and "complicated by offers to buy Angels."
Schott said, "They talked to us about moving the A's to Anaheim, but then you would have a team with two rosters, and they didn't describe how they would consolidate the teams."
He was also told that John Henry, then the owner of the Florida Marlins, would be his partner in a proposed Anaheim-Oakland consolidation. Henry had also been rumored on his own to be pursuing a purchase of the Angels. The team has been for sale for a couple of years.
"We talked a little and pursued it a little further," he said.
It never advanced. In early 2002 Henry sold the Marlins to Jeffrey Loria for $158 million; Loria sold the Expos to Major League Baseball for $120 million, and a group led by Henry acquired the Boston Red Sox for $660 million.
Soon after, Selig delayed contraction until 2003, then deferred considering it until 2007 as part of the new labor deal with the players' union.
A spokesman for the Angels did not return a call asking comment, as did Tony Tavares, the president of the Montreal Expos, who was in charge of Anaheim Sports, the Disney division that oversaw the Angels and the Anaheim Mighty Ducks.
One document showed a sensitivity toward negative coverage of Selig's initial contraction announcement in 2001. A 10-point analysis criticized baseball for not selling the contraction concept sufficiently to "national baseball opinion leaders in advance of the announcement."
The report said the failure to presell the concept had forced the news media to rely "solely on the cogency of the Commissioner's oral presentation," and that lacking a "firm understanding of the concept, the media veered to writing about his performance at the press conference."
It cited how writers "indulged in the pathos of contracting the Twins." It also criticized Jesse Ventura, then the Minnesota governor and an opponent of eliminating the Twins, "who, hungry for pithy comments, gulped his media-friendly responses." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%) BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); OAKLAND A'S (91%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%) ANAHEIM ANGELS; OAKLAND ATHLETICS 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%)

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



361 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: THE THEATER SETTLEMENT: OVERVIEW; 
Broadway's Lights Go Back On As Musicians Reach an Accord

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN and STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The curtains went up on Broadway musicals last night for the first time since Thursday, after producers and musicians reached a settlement during round-the-clock talks at Gracie Mansion.
 Both sides said that the tentative agreement would not have happened without the intervention of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who invited them to the mayoral mansion on Monday night. The mayor, who had no official role in the dispute, was concerned that the strike was causing heavy economic losses, estimated at $7 million a day. 
 "Broadway is no longer dark," Mr. Bloomberg said in announcing the settlement yesterday morning. "It's a happy ending." 
When the negotiators emerged, bleary-eyed, from the talks, neither side claimed victory, and both called the deal a difficult compromise. The main conflict had been over the minimum number of musicians required -- currently 24 to 26 -- in the orchestra pits of Broadway's 13 largest theaters.
Under the new contract, those minimums were lowered for the next decade to 18 or 19, depending on the theater. The shows currently running are unaffected. While the musicians preserved the idea of minimums, the deal cut the number of such positions by about 25 percent per show in the future. For musicals that run in the largest theaters -- many of which cost $10 million to $12 million to stage -- the change is expected to save producers at least $600,000 a year.
At Gracie Mansion, Mr. Bloomberg had greeted the two negotiators with a pep talk. They said his words made a strong impression -- as did the knowledge that the mayor was simultaneously facing another crisis, the fatal shooting of two police officers in Staten Island.
"He used an expression, 'At the end of the day, we're all buried in the same ground, and we have to find a way to live together,' " said Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers.
Bill Dennison, assistant to the president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said: "As typical with compromises, nobody's happy. It's a very difficult concession that we've made on orchestra sizes. At the same time, we've protected live music on Broadway for the next 10 years, and that is not an insignificant achievement."
The negotiations were mediated by Frank J. Macchiarola, a former chancellor of New York City's schools, who was asked by Mr. Bloomberg to help settle the strike that had left 18 musicals dark, ticketholders disappointed, the tourism industry at risk and hundreds of Broadway employees out of work since Friday.
Before the strike, the producers said they wanted to eliminate minimums altogether, calling them an archaic employment guarantee that had become increasingly onerous in an age of escalating production costs. They succeeded in reducing the minimums for the largest theaters by seven musicians. The base wage for Broadway musicians is $70,000 a year; with benefits included, their overall compensation comes to more than $90,000. Reducing a pit orchestra by seven players, therefore, can save more than $630,000 a year.
A 25-member orchestra generally accounts for 8 to 10 percent of a musical's costs, and the new minimums could reduce that to between 5.5 and 7.5 percent, industry and union officials say.
Throughout the negotiations the musicians insisted that, without at least 24 players, the quality of Broadway orchestras would be compromised. They also frequently invoked the specter of Broadway without live music. The producers had prepared to go on without musicians Friday night, presenting their shows with digitally produced music.
Producers lost that option when the unions representing actors and stagehands decided to honor the musicians' picket lines, a move that effectively shut down musical Broadway and created a sense of economic emergency, given the strike's impact on restaurants, hotels, taxis and other theater-related businesses.
City Hall officials said the potential economic damage led the mayor to call each side to the table. Mr. Bloomberg kicked off the evening by welcoming them to Gracie Mansion at 9 p.m. "I did try to explain to them how important this industry is to New York City," the mayor said. "I tried to explain that you can't always get everything you want, but if people work together, there is some way to find a common ground."
Mr. Dennison said: "He made clear there was a great deal at stake for the city. It came not as an order, but as an honest plea to the parties."
The negotiators were also affected by the deaths of the officers in Staten Island. "Without being overly dramatic, it does put things immediately into perspective," Mr. Bernstein said. "We're fighting about chairs in an orchestra and these two guys just gave up everything. It was a sobering beginning."
After spending six hours in Staten Island, the mayor returned to the mansion before 3 a.m. to check on the talks. The two sides came to terms around dawn, but they had to wait until the mayor returned from a speech at Barnard College to announce a deal around 9:30 a.m.
Many of those involved said the presence of Dr. Macchiarola, the president of St. Francis College in Brooklyn, gave the talks an aura of the end game. Mr. Bloomberg went so far as to call him "the savior."
"Without his assistance in this, it couldn't have been done," said Bill Moriarity, president of the musicians' union.
Dr. Macchiarola said that when he arrived at the talks he had a line from St. Francis in mind: "It is in giving that we receive."
"That's what happened in these negotiations," he said. "Both parties gave. They made considerable concessions. They made giant steps."
He shuttled back and forth between the two sides, who were in separate rooms. "I have no interest in where this ends," he said he told them. "I only have an interest in it ending."
The mediator would not let the two sides have breakfast until a deal was reached; when they finally ate, it was scrambled eggs, bagels and fruit.
The settlement requires sacrifices of both sides. The producers still have to apply for exceptions if they want to employ fewer than the minimum number of musicians. But the contract's clause that handles those appeals was made considerably more flexible.
The provisions on minimums are good for 10 years, but the main contract would last four years and provide for annual raises of 2.5 percent. The union's members have 10 days to ratify the deal. 
"We could have gotten much closer to what we wanted, but that would have taken a long and possibly very bitter strike," said the producer Rocco Landesman. "There wasn't a lot of stomach for that, particularly at this economic time."
The producers say the union again succeeded in guaranteeing employment for some of its members. But the musicians note that they have essentially seen a quarter of their jobs eliminated. "I'm very disappointed," said Lisa Pike, a French horn player who substitutes in about 10 different Broadway shows and is about to start in the pit of "42nd Street."
"In the last negotiations we lost eight chairs over all of Broadway," Ms. Pike added. "Now in some cases we're losing eight chairs a show."
Among the many unions representing Broadway employees, there was a strong sense that the producers had miscalculated when they predicted that actors and stagehands would not honor the musicians' picket lines. Had the musicals remained open, management's hand would have been greatly strengthened.
"The league never seemed to understand us when we said the actors would not cross because they didn't like to perform before virtual orchestras," said Alan Eisenberg, executive director of Actors' Equity Association. "Their strategy went awry."
Officials with the musicians' union said that the united front grew out of the unusually close cooperation among the unions in reopening shows after the 9/11 attack closed Broadway for two days. "The settlement would have been far worse for us if the other unions had crossed our picket line," Mr. Dennison said.
Mr. Landesman, the producer, said he was frustrated that the contract mandated a minimum number of musicians. "There are no economies of scale or technology," he said. "We are handmade and labor-intensive. This is an attempt to come to terms with that and to try to keep our product priced reasonably."
But some music professionals say that orchestras will forever be diminished. "The reality is, if you say, 'We could really use two more for the brass section,' it's going to be, 'Too bad, 18 is the number, figure it out,' " said Paul Gemignani, a prominent music director.
"You won't be able to bring all the color," he added. "It's like saying to Van Gogh, 'Sorry, no orange.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL TOGETHER NOW -- Brenda Braxton was back onstage last night in "Chicago" after the musicians' strike ended. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Musicians from "Movin' Out," the musical based on songs by Billy Joel, got ready to go back to work last night at the Richard Rodgers Theater.; West 44th Street was crowded again last night, as happy ticketholders at the St. James Theater prepared to see the hit musical "The Producers." (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); MUSIC (92%); THEATER (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (50%); TOURISM (50%) THEATER; STRIKES; LABOR; MUSIC; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); POGREBIN, ROBIN; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; MACCHIAROLA, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



362 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: LONDON; 
British Dissent Over an Iraq War Imperils Blair's Political Future

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 11 

 BODY:
For weeks and months, a seemingly unruffled Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has weathered a gathering storm of discontent among members of his Labor Party who are incensed -- or at least unsettled -- by his lock-step alliance with President Bush.
 But recently, as Mr. Blair has acknowledged that he might join a war in Iraq without a new authorization from the United Nations, that unease has crystallized into something more ominous. 
 Now, in by far the worst crisis for Mr. Blair since he took office in 1997, the dissent has given rise to a startlingly open debate about his political future. 
"I don't think it is possible to exaggerate the degree of concern about the illegality of what is proposed," said Tam Dalyell, a longtime and often maverick legislator from the Labor Party. "If there is no U.N. mandate and there is not a vote in the Commons before the commitment of British troops, then we ask the prime minister to consider his position as leader of the party."
The clearest sign of the severity of Mr. Blair's predicament came late Sunday when Clare Short, the influential and often outspoken cabinet minister, blind-sided the prime minister and his followers by threatening to resign if Britain joined the United States in a war in Iraq without a second United Nations Security Council resolution. Not only that, Ms. Short, the international development secretary, called his stewardship in the Iraq crisis "deeply reckless."
It is a seeming token of Mr. Blair's current political weakness -- or at least of his desire to avoid the perils of Ms. Short's being cast as a martyr to peace -- that he has responded with public silence, neither castigating nor dismissing her.
Mr. Blair's destiny seems entwined with developments at the Security Council, where France and Russia have threatened to veto Britain's proposals for a new resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq, and with the nature of any military campaign to oust Saddam Hussein.
In essence, the prime minister is fighting a two-front campaign, one at at the Security Council and the other at home. 
"If there's no second resolution and the war is anything other than short, sharp and bloodless, he'll be in serious trouble," said Charles Grant of the Center for European Reform, an independent policy organization.
The latest opinion survey suggests growing disillusion with the allies' justification for war. The survey, published in The Times of London, said 62 percent of respondents did not believe that Britain and the United States had put forward a convincing case for war, compared with 57 percent a month ago. There appears to be a growing sense here that the weapons inspections are forcing Mr. Hussein to disarm, however falteringly, and should be given more time.
The survey showed that antiwar sentiment was building among Labor voters, while followers of the opposition Conservative Party had become more supportive of a war.
Other surveys suggest that a second United Nations resolution would swing public opinion behind Mr. Blair, giving developments at the Security Council with potentially more political consequences for Mr. Blair than they seem to portend for the White House.
The political crisis here has profound implications for Mr. Bush's "coalition of the willing," apparently raising doubts among some senior American officials about the likely impact of Labor Party dissent on Britain's ability to fight.
While Mr. Blair has given no indication that his resolve is weakening, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld seemed to hint today that Washington might even contemplate an initial campaign without Britain.
"What will ultimately be decided is unclear as to their role -- that is to say, their role in the event that a decision is made to use force," Mr. Rumsfeld said of the British, who have committed some 40,000 troops to join the 200,000-plus Americans in the Persian Gulf region. 
Mr. Rumsfeld later modified those remarks, saying he had "no doubt" about Britain's "full support" in the effort to disarm Iraq.
Mr. Blair had earlier castigated France and Russia for their readiness to ease the pressure on Mr. Hussein by rejecting a new United Nations authorization to invade Iraq.
"The only reason we made any progress at all in the past few weeks has been because of the threat of force," the prime minister said today after meeting here with the Portuguese prime minister, Jose Manuel Durao Barroso. "And my concern is that if countries talk about using a veto in all sets of circumstances, the message that sends to Saddam Hussein is, 'You are off the hook.' "
Mr. Blair has sent a senior foreign office official, Baroness Amos, to the impoverished African countries of Cameroon, Angola and Guinea, which are current members of the Security Council. That trip follows that of the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin. Both envoys have sought to swing the undecided African nations in their favor.
"In going to war without the sanction of the United Nations, we will see the prospects for another fine Labor government disappear," said Hilton Dawson, a legislator who was one of 122 Laborites to challenge Mr. Blair in Parliament last month on the need to go to war. "We will see the distinct possibility of this Labor Party being brought to its knees." 
John McDonnell, another Labor rebel, declared, "We are asking Tony Blair to consider his position."
That same discontent has been drummed home to Mr. Blair in televised meetings in the last week with audiences as disparate as young rock fans in an MTV studio to women in a television debate on Monday night. Some of the women were mothers of people who died in the attacks on New York on Sept. 11, 2001, or in the first Persian Gulf war a decade earlier. Some harangued Mr. Blair. Many urged him not to go to war.
The misgivings have been echoed by student leaders as well as a former Labor defense minister, Denis Healey, who said Mr. Blair's unequivocal support for Washington was "a disastrous error."
Mr. Blair stands accused of losing touch with the traditional, pacifist grass roots of the Labor Party, but draws strong backing from the Conservatives. The impact on parliamentary arithmetic is clear and not necessarily threatening to Mr. Blair. Even if more than 120 Labor legislators vote to oppose him, as happened last month, he can still count on the support of most of the 165 Conservatives. In addition, Labor has a huge majority, with 411 of the 659 seats. But if Mr. Blair was seen to be depending on the Conservatives for his political survival while his own party revolts, his position could be weakened still further.
The Labor Party's mainstream heavyweights have moved to squelch rebellious talk.
John Reid, the party chairman, today dismissed the mavericks like Mr. Dalyell as "the usual suspects." On Monday, Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, who is often depicted as the person most likely to succeed Mr. Blair, declared that "the whole country should support Tony Blair in his determination to secure international agreement for a second resolution."
That was significant, said Mr. Grant at the Center for European Reform. "The only person who matters is Gordon Brown, and he was being very supportive," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clare Short has threatened to quit the British cabinet over Iraq. (Getty Images)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); INSPECTIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (59%) PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) COWELL, ALAN; SHORT, CLARE (SEC); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) GREAT BRITAIN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



363 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: House Budget Chairman Vows Tax Cuts and Balanced Budget 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11 

 BODY:
The chairman of the House Budget Committee promised today to produce a budget this week that would include all the tax cuts President Bush wanted and still show a balanced budget in seven years because of spending cuts far deeper than Mr. Bush was proposing.
 In the Senate, opposition to the tax reductions mounted. A bipartisan group of senators who characterize themselves as moderates and who hold the balance of power in the Senate said today that they were close to agreement on a plan that was a fraction of the cuts the president wants. 
 The House and Senate budget committees are to vote on Wednesday on a budget resolution. That measure is supposed to establish the framework for all the tax and spending legislation that will become law this year and that will set the procedures for debating those measures.
The House budget chairman, Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa, told reporters he had drafted a plan for his committee that would include all $1.5 trillion in tax cuts over 10 years that Mr. Bush sought, the $400 billion he wants to allow some prescription drug coverage under Medicare and a spending increase in the next fiscal year for Medicaid, the mushrooming federal-state health program for the poor.
Mr. Nussle said his plan, unlike the president's budget, would lead to a balanced budget in seven years. He would accomplish that, he said, with deep spending cuts that could involve all programs except Social Security, unemployment insurance, domestic security and the military.
Under his plan, he said, government spending would rise 3 percent in the fiscal year 2004, which begins on Oct. 1. But Mr. Nussle said total spending for all the programs except the military and domestic security that require annual Congressional appropriations would be reduced in actual dollars.
The Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan staff that advises Congress on fiscal and economics issues, reported last week that under the budget Mr. Bush sent to Congress last month, the budget would not be in balance in any of the next 10 years and that over that period, the cumulative deficit would be $1.8 trillion.
Mr. Nussle said his budget, which begins with the fiscal year 2004, would not allocate any money for a possible war against Iraq. If there is a war, Mr. Nussle said, he hoped that its cost would fall in this fiscal year and that allies would help bear the postwar costs.
Democrats plan to offer an alternative that would allow a much more generous drug measure than the Republican plan. But the Democrats are sure to be outvoted.
Party discipline in the House is so strong that Mr. Nussle's plan is almost certain to be approved intact by his committee this week and by the full House next week.
The Senate is another matter. There, almost all Republicans favor the president's tax package and almost all Democrats oppose further cuts. A group of about 12 senators, about half Republicans and half Democrats, have been meeting for weeks to develop a compromise.
Today, several of those senators said they planned to send a letter to the leadership specifying that they would not vote for tax reductions above a certain figure. One senator, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said that the figure would be in the range of $350 billion over 10 years, about half of what Mr. Bush proposed.
Democratic leaders said budget decisions should be set aside until the Iraq problem had been clarified. 
"What meaningful purpose does the budget have if we can't stay within several hundred billion dollars of what the budget will be?" the Democratic leader, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, asked. 
Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, a leader of the moderates who favor compromise, agreed, saying, "There are too many uncertainties out there." 
But Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee and who is the most influential voice in the Senate on taxes, said: "I don't know if there's going to be a war. But we've got an economy that is fragile now, and tax reductions are the key." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (98%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); TERRORISM (59%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (51%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JIM NUSSLE (89%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; NUSSLE, JIM (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



364 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: I Vant to Be Alone 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It will go down as a great mystery of history how Mr. Popularity at Yale metamorphosed into President Persona Non Grata of the world.
 The genial cheerleader and stickball commissioner with the gregarious parents, the frat president who had little nicknames and jokes for everyone, fell in with a rough crowd. 
 Just when you thought it couldn't get more Strangelovian, it does. The Bush bullies, having driven off all the other kids in the international schoolyard, are now resorting to imaginary friends. 
Paul Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, spoke to the Veterans of Foreign Wars here yesterday and reassured the group that America would have "a formidable coalition" to attack Iraq. "The number of countries involved will be in the substantial double digits," he boasted. Unfortunately, he could not actually name one of the supposed allies. "Some of them would prefer not to be named now," he said coyly, "but they will be known with pride in due time."
Perhaps the hawks' fixation on being the messiahs of the Middle East has unhinged them. I could just picture Wolfy sauntering down the road to Baghdad with our new ally Harvey, his very own pooka, a six-foot-tall invisible rabbit that the U.S. wants to put on the U.N. Security Council.
Ari Fleischer upped the ante, conjuring up an entire international forum filled with imaginary allies.
He suggested that if the U.N. remained recalcitrant, we would replace it with "another international body" to disarm Saddam Hussein. It wasn't clear what he was talking about. What other international body? Salma Hayek? The World Bank? The Hollywood Foreign Press Association?
The not-so-splendid isolation of the White House got worse this afternoon when Donald Rumsfeld suggested the unthinkable at his Pentagon briefing: we might have to go to war without Britain.
Even though Tony Blair said he was working "night and day" to get us international support (and beating back a revolt in his own party), Mr. Rumsfeld dismissively remarked that it was "unclear" just what the British role would be in a war.
Asked whether the U.S. would go to war without "our closest ally," he replied, "That is an issue that the president will be addressing in the days ahead, one would assume."
The Brits covered up their fury with typical understatement, calling Rummy's comment "curious." But behind the scene, Downing Street went nuts and began ringing Pennsylvania Avenue, demanding an explanation. How could Rummy be so callous about "the special relationship" after Mr. Blair had stuck his neck out for President Bush and courageously put his career on the line, and after he had sent one-quarter of the British military to the Persian Gulf?
Even though Mr. Rumsfeld scrambled later to mollify the British, one BBC commentator drily said that perhaps he was trying to be sensitive, but "as we all know, Donald Rumsfeld doesn't do sensitive very well."
Now we've managed to alienate our last best friend. We are making the rest of the world recoil. But that may be part of the Bush hawks' master plan. Maybe they have really always wanted to go it alone.
Maybe it has been their strategy all along to sideline the U.N., deflate Colin Powell and cut the restraining cords of traditional coalitions. Their decision last summer to get rid of Saddam was driven by their desire to display raw, naked American power. This time, they don't want Colin Powell or pesky allies counseling restraint in Baghdad.
Rummy was unfazed by Turkey's decision not to let our troops in, and he seemed just as unruffled about the prospect of the Brits' falling out of the war effort. And in a well-timed display of American military might, the Air Force tested a huge new bomb called MOAB in Florida. Tremors traveled through the ground, and the scary dust cloud could be seen for miles. 
"These guys at the Pentagon -- Wolfowitz, Perle, Doug Feith -- when they lie in bed at night, they imagine a new book written by one of them or about them called, 'Present at the Recreation,' " an American diplomat said. "They want to banish the wimpy Europeanist traditional balance of power, and use the Iraq seedbed of democracy to impose America's will on the world."
The more America goes it alone, the more "robust," as the Pentagon likes to say, the win will be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); TONY BLAIR (70%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) INDIAN OCEAN (50%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (56%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003 



365 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Natalie Merchant, No Strings Attached 

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
Natalie Merchant has stepped off the pop treadmill. After 17 years with Elektra Records, first as the main songwriter and singer of 10,000 Maniacs and then with million-selling solo albums of her reflective folk-rock, Ms. Merchant decided to go it alone. 
 When her Elektra contract expired in August 2002, she chose not to renew it or to seek a deal with another major label. "I would make a big-budget pop album, followed by a year of touring and promotion and then some downtime for recovery," she said. "I don't even know if I was writing music that was appropriate for that mold." Instead she will release her next album, a collection of traditional songs called "The House Carpenter's Daughter," on her own label, Myth America Records. It is to be released June 1 through Ms. Merchant's Web site, nataliemerchant .com, and July 1 in stores.
 Recorded on a modest budget, marketed primarily to existing fans and not relying on radio exposure, "The House Carpenter's Daughter" breaks free of the commercial pressures that have turned major-label releases into risky gambles that can cost a million dollars in promotion alone. In contrast, Ms. Merchant's transition suggests the model of a sustainable career for a musician who is no longer eager to chase hits. 
"The business is going one way, and Natalie's going another," said her manager, Gary Smith, also the general manager of Myth America. 
Ms. Merchant has little to lose. "I'm in a privileged position," she said by telephone from Hawaii, where she lives part of the year; she also has a home in upstate New York. "I'm beyond financially independent. I had a lot of success, and I gathered together a very large audience. And I was in a rare position, because my material was unorthodox as the pop-hit mold went, but I was able to sell multiplatinum albums and have relatively large hits." 
When a musician is signed to a label, the company pays for recording and promotion, then recoups expenses from the musician's royalties while retaining ownership of the finished recordings. (Elektra still owns Ms. Merchant's catalog; Rhino Records, distributed by the AOL Time Warner conglomerate that includes Elektra, is releasing a 10,000 Maniacs retrospective this summer.) A label also uses its expertise and clout to market and distribute an album. 
Ms. Merchant paid for recording and packaging "The House Carpenter's Daughter," including the $3.50 manufacturing cost of an elaborate box for the first 30,000 copies. (The CD will sell for $16.95.) The special package "was printed in America for three times the price in Hong Kong," Ms. Merchant said.
"It's just not in keeping with American business practice right now," she added.
Even so, "The House Carpenter's Daughter" needs to sell only 50,000 copies to break even, less than 15 percent of what "Motherland," her last album for Elektra, sold.
"We're not trying to recoup some enormous debt," Mr. Smith said. "The economics of making this record are very prudent. When we sell 200,000 copies, we'll be standing on our chairs, hollering. If we released this record with these kinds of goals on a major label, we would look like a failure. At Elektra, if you just sell 1.5 million, everyone goes around with their heads down." 
Ms. Merchant is not the first well-known musician to become independent. Prince, after battling Warner Records over his desire to release more music in a year than the label thought it could market, started his own company, NPG, and has since released double- and triple-CD sets at whim. Todd Rundgren markets his music directly to subscribers to his Web site, patronet.com.
"For those already through the door, doing it on your own is incredibly viable," said Jay Rosenthal, a music-business lawyer who represents the Recording Artists' Coalition. "It's going to be very attractive, and it's going to be a viable alternative even for bands who are doing well. The only reason to go to the major labels is to get your songs on the radio, to go for the promo money. If you don't need to get on the radio, and you've got a name, go out there and go for yourself. If there's any moment that artists should do it, it's now, before things get worse." 
He added that some musicians would have no choice, as he expected major labels to cut their rosters by 30 to 50 percent in the next year. 
Ms. Merchant's album "Motherland" was made before Sept. 11, 2001, and released shortly after. Her concert fans welcomed its somber songs. But Soundscan, which tabulates retail sales in the United States, shows that "Motherland" has sold about 398,000 copies, far fewer than "Tiger Lily," released in 1995, which has sold nearly 3.6 million, and "Ophelia," released in 1998, which has sold 1.2 million. 
" 'Motherland' was the best material I ever wrote, and I was really happy with the record," Ms. Merchant said. "I don't know if it was timing or the way the industry is today, but it just didn't seem to interest the label so much. And I thought, why fight an uphill battle for attention?"
Elektra, Mr. Smith said, "offered her a sizable amount of money to stay, at a juncture when she felt like she was ready to go."
The label does not comment on musicians who have left its roster, an Elektra spokeswoman said.
"The House Carpenter's Daughter" is a collection of other people's songs. Ms. Merchant began delving into them in 1999, before the film "O Brother, Where Art Thou" put traditional music back in the Top 10 in 2001. ("Motherland" was produced by T Bone Burnett, who also produced the "O Brother" soundtrack.) She researched books of folk songs and listened to field recordings collected by Alan Lomax; she also took courses in the history of American folk music at Bard College.
A few selections on the new album are well known, like the English ballad "House Carpenter" and the labor movement song "Which Side Are You On?"; others are rescued from archives. Ms. Merchant found one, "Weeping Pilgrim," in an 18th-century hymnal at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. "I really appreciate the songs as social documents," Ms. Merchant said. 
She performed them during a summer tour in 2000; since then, live versions have been circulating on the Internet. When the tour ended, she decided to take the band into the studio simply to document the songs. The road-tested band mixed banjo and fiddle with drums and electric guitar, like a bluesier and bluegrass-loving American cousin of the English trad-rock band Fairport Convention. Four days of sessions, recorded live and barely overdubbed, yielded the makings of the album. 
Ms. Merchant and Mr. Smith are now learning about marketing and distribution. "This is the first time that we don't have somebody watching over us," Mr. Smith said, "telling us that we can't do this, or it's going to cost too much money, or it's not going to work."
They expect fans to learn about the album from Ms. Merchant's Web site and through publicity and a small advertising campaign. To gauge demand, they may offer fans who order the CD in advance a downloadable file of a song from the sessions that is not included on the album. In an increasingly consolidated retail business, a handful of chain stores, like Borders and Barnes & Noble, have accounted for a large percentage of Ms. Merchant's sales in the past; now her label is approaching them directly.
"I don't know that every artist has the capability to go directly to these chains, but Natalie has a history," Mr. Smith said.
He doesn't rule out the possibility of more major-label efforts. But for the moment, Ms. Merchant sees them as unlikely. She says she may go live in Europe for a time; she's considering setting medieval Latin liturgical texts to music or making a children's album. Million-selling albums and loyal fans have given her the freedom to experiment.
"This is the kind of record I want to make, going forward," Ms. Merchant said. "I've been writing things that are much more obscure and sort of shelving them, thinking I can't getthis past a corporate boardroom and I won't even try." 
"I understand that the larger labels are just interested in the projects that can generate the most capital for their quarter," she continued. "But I didn't want to subject the music to that kind of corporate boardroom and radio censorship. Why subject myself and the work that I do to that kind of environment when it really doesn't matter any more?" 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Natalie Merchant will soon release an album on her own record label. (Associated Press)(pg. E1); Natalie Merchant, onstage in 2000. She says she wants to record free of marketing pressure: "Why fight an uphill battle for attention?" (Associated Press)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%) MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); RADIO; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: AOL INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: MYTH AMERICA RECORDS 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: MERCHANT, NATALIE; PARELES, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



366 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: High Design in Las Vegas? Viva! 

BYLINE:  By KARRIE JACOBS 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
HUGH FOGEL is not the first person to see Las Vegas as the most vital design city in America. Four years ago the magician Penn Jillette, a resident, called it the "design capital of the universe." And back in 1977, in their landmark book, "Learning From Las Vegas," Robert Venturi, Denise Scott Brown and Steven Izenour argued that the city was a more significant architectural influence than Rome. 
 But Mr. Fogel, 36, the owner with his wife, Bonnie, 42, of a design store called Unica Home, may be the first to embrace Las Vegas design not just for the uncontrollably exuberant thing that it is, but for what he believes it will someday be: a place where sexy, high-technology modernism will be developed not just for the cognoscenti but for the masses, a hybrid of Milan and Hollywood. 
 "I kept on saying: 'Hugh, there's a reason there's not a design store here. No one wants one here,' " Ms. Fogel recalled saying before the couple moved here from Detroit last year. But Mr. Fogel already smelled what draws gamblers and all manner of dreamers to Las Vegas. "There's so much possibility here," he said. 
Maybe so. But at some point the Fogels' experiment will have to confront the fact that Las Vegas is still a vast economic engine devoted to the production of novelty, not high culture. "It's largely spectacle that can be absorbed in one day," said David Rockwell, the New York architect who designed a Nobu restaurant in Las Vegas. "What it hasn't developed is a richness or depth, any reason to stick around. It's generally a one-night stopover for me." 
Las Vegas may still be more promising than Detroit, which the Fogels found too culturally leaden to welcome new design. By comparison, Las Vegas is America's fastest-growing city, with 6,000 people arriving every month. Many of them are, in Mr. Fogel's view, "looking to buy stuff."
Beyond the screaming lights of the Strip and the Seven Wonders of the World architecture, the Fogels detected a genuine, emerging design culture. Granted, the Rem Koolhaas-designed Guggenheim Las Vegas has closed its doors, but well-known designers are seemingly at work everywhere. At the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, there's a conspicuously understated branch of the restaurant Aureole by the noted New York designer Adam Tihany. Deep inside the Venetian, there's a bar called Tsunami with that disorienting made-in-cyberspace feel, crafted by the pioneering Los Angeles architecture firm Morphosis. Most casinos now feature at least one Modernist bar, an environment a little whiter, cooler and more restrained than everything around it.
"The last time we visited, I was smiling the entire time," Mr. Fogel said, referring to a reconnaissance trip he and his wife made. "It wasn't just because it was warm here and cold in Michigan. It was really because when you walk around here, you started to see snippets of design incorporated."
Last year, the Fogels bought a small, unassuming house in Las Vegas. A month and a half later, they packed up their suburban Detroit version of Unica, a 1,200-square-foot shop stuffed to the rafters with high modern design, mostly accessories and tabletop items, and moved it to an airy 8,000-square-foot shed in an industrial park a few miles southwest of the Las Vegas Strip. Their neighbors include a garage door wholesaler and a vitamin factory that has somehow positioned itself as an official stop on the Grand Canyon bus tours that depart from the Strip.
While the Fogels appreciate the city's native visual cacophony (the florid pink and purple decor of Circus Circus, the giant visages of Siegfried and Roy lording over the Strip like heads of state) they see it as a place where their brand of good design (floor-hugging Zanotta coffee tables, acrylic chairs by Gaetano Pesce, oddly dimpled white dinnerware by the Italian company Covo) could really take off, or at least sell better than it did in Detroit. Mr. Fogel refused to share sales figures, but said that the Las Vegas store, half a year out, is selling at about the same pace as the Detroit store after four years. While the store itself is not turning a profit, the couple's business is sustained by steady orders on their Web site (www.unicahome.com.)
The Fogels, whose monochromatic outfits and frameless glasses make them look out of place in this garish town, have embraced some aspects of Las Vegas life, like free valet parking and all-you-can-eat buffets. They visit the casinos a few times a month, mostly to look for connections between the Las Vegas of the Strip and the ultra-Modernist Las Vegas of their dreams.
"Hugh and I were in the Palms Hotel," Ms. Fogel said, "and they have a little cubicle that has a palm reader. And she says, 'Can I read your palms?' And I said, 'No, we want to buy those two lamps,' because they were Gaetano Pesce lamps. And she said, 'No, those aren't for sale.' "
WHAT the Fogels have created out in the desert fringe of the city, is an impressive design store, and not just by Las Vegas standards. It's a true-believer store, of roughly the same caliber as Moss in New York or Limn in San Francisco. It is one of about 50 high-end contemporary design stores in the country. Those stores are part of a growing trend of selling designer furniture directly to consumers, instead of selling just to the trade -- interior designers and architects -- who would pass them along to their clients at a markup of up to 40 percent. Ivan Luini, president of Kartell US, an Italian manufacturer of high-end plastic furniture, said the Fogels have made "a clever business and life move." And soon the Fogels will have plenty of company. The World Market Center, with 1.3 million square feet, is billing itself as "the largest and most comprehensive home furnishings showroom and convention complex in the West." It will open in downtown Las Vegas next year. The aim is to lure the furniture industry en masse to Las Vegas for trade shows and events.
Unica stocks design's greatest hits, the full range of tabletop items manufactured by Alessi, Michael Graves teapots, and plastic Bubu Stools by Philippe Starck. But the store specializes in rarer pieces that reflect the Fogels' own passions: a dining table in multicolored acrylics by Gaetano Pesce, a low white leather glide sofa by the brothers Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec for Cappellini and a dazzling wall of dinnerware, the centerpiece of the store's bridal registry. A glance at the their wares suggests that what constitutes "good design" these days is almost as colorful, almost as variegated and weird as the design that draws the tourists to the Strip.
The locals, however, are not quite ready to make the leap. "When people come in, they think we're aliens," Mr. Fogel said. "They say stuff like, 'Cute.' " Experience has taught Mr. Fogel that the word "cute" is the kiss of death, code language for "no sale."
Nobody understands the code language of Las Vegas decor better than Roger Thomas, head of design for Steve Wynn, the casino mogul who built the Mirage, Treasure Island and the Bellagio. Mr. Thomas is now working on the look of La Reve, a casino named after a Picasso in Mr. Wynn's collection. Mr. Thomas, whose designs might be characterized as Las Vegas rococo -- no surface is left undecorated -- has consciously separated his personal style from his professional style. "I don't live with the same aesthetic I design," he said.
He lives in an angular concrete house designed by a Los Angeles architect, Mark Mack. Situated in Summerlin, a gated community west of the city, Mr. Thomas's house is arranged around an interior courtyard so he doesn't have to look at the neighboring mini-chateaus. He said he is pleased that Unica provides a good local source for the kind of furniture he buys for himself --though he's hasn't shopped there yet -- but he questions whether the locals will be flocking to the conspicuously understated store.
"I think Las Vegas is about buying into romantic images," he said. "I don't think you sell a sofa; you sell the romance of the sofa." Mr. Thomas suggested that Las Vegans are hooked on vignettes, "preassembled, ready for consumption, layer upon layer." These vignettes are exactly the kinds of environments Mr. Thomas designs, the sort that never give the eye a moment's rest. One would think that Las Vegas residents, unlike the tourists, would develop an allergy to prepackaged environments and, like Mr. Thomas, seek something different.
The Fogels' premise, that Las Vegas taste will eventually evolve upward, strikes some locals as fundamentally mistaken, as misguided as efforts to import opera and other forms of high culture. "What they fail to realize is that we have culture," said Daniel A. Greenspun, who once ran a highbrow local bookstore and is now president of the company that publishes Las Vegas Life magazine. "It's our culture. To me, its all about seeing what Vegas is and adapting." 
While the Fogels dream of someday having an outlet on the Strip, their goal now is to become a focal point for the small but growing art and design circle. One night last month, they threw a party in honor of two Los Angeles-based designers, Roz Hayes and Dani Stoller, whose company, Lush Life, designs and manufactures big, multiseat lounges shaped like abstract sculpture.
While the turnout for the party was relatively modest -- a heavy rainstorm practically shut the city down -- the crowd of more than 100 that braved the weather was rich in design professionals, developers and local businesspeople. One guest, John Gilmer, is exactly the kind of customer the Fogels were hoping to draw. Mr. Gilmer, an architect, had worked in New York for Robert A. M. Stern, but moved to Las Vegas last year to join Avery Brooks & Associates, a large design firm with an endless stream of work on homes, casinos and hotels.
"In New York, you may be hampered by the tradition that's there," he said. "Here it's free. It's like the Wild, Wild West in the 21st century."
Mr. Gilmer has used furniture from Unica in a series of model homes he has designed for Lake Las Vegas, a resort community in Henderson, 17 miles west of the Strip. The homes can be purchased, for $1 million or more, fully furnished, a common marketing strategy in the region. Las Vegans, after all, love their vignettes.
The Fogels like to take visitors to the places that give them confidence that they have made a a good move. Their tour of emerging Las Vegas modernism includes the Palms hotel and casino west of the Strip. The hotel tower, which glows like a mood ring at night , is topped by the Ghostbar, an exemplar of Wallpaper-magazine-inspired chic. The current season of MTV's "Real World was filmed in a suite on the 28th floor.
The place the Fogels are most excited about is Green Valley Ranch, a new casino in Henderson that features two bars designed by Architropolis, a firm based in Portland, Ore. Whiskey Sky is seamlessly chic with its dark swirly wood paneling and its white upholstered surfaces. Even a mural-size wall-mounted fireplace is framed in shiny white. Cooler still is the Drop Bar, a circular oasis separated from the gaming floor by scrim curtains. 
Mr. Fogel, for the first time in days, maybe for the first time since arriving in Las Vegas, offered a critical word. "It's too smooth, you know," he said while leaving the Drop Bar for the hectic casino floor. "It's too cool."
He may have just realized something: that Las Vegas is capable of digesting almost anything, whether it's Steve Wynn's Picassos, an artificial volcano, the Eiffel Tower, or a bar inspired by James Bond. Modernism has become the latest theme in a city that has excelled in transforming every movement in history into a theme. 
After the tour, Mr. Fogel backpedaled just a bit. "I've been talking with Bonnie about this," he said. "Just say Las Vegas is a design laboratory, O.K.?"

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Thursday with an article about high design in Las Vegas misstated the name of a store there that specializes in contemporary home furnishings. It is Unica Home, as the article said, not Utica.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WINNING THE WEST -- Will Las Vegas become America's design capital? Bonnie and Hugh Fogel, right, are banking on it. . They woo new arrivals with events at their store, Utica Home, left. Top, a courtyard at the home of Roger Thomas, the architect responsible for the Bellagio and other Las Vegas destinations. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Photographs by Joseph Pickett III for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WHERE'S ELVIS? -- At home, Hugh and Bonnie Fogel on an Oyster chair and ottoman from Artifort; their 1950's horseshoe furniture, left, came from Funk House, a store downtown. Left, at the Roger Thomas house, a Chilean mesquite tree and poolside dining chairs by Christian Liagre. Below, built-in video slot machines at the Drop Bar, by Architropolis. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times, above and below left); (Joseph Pickett III for The New York Times, above and top left)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CLOSINGS (70%) DESIGN 

ORGANIZATION: UNICA HOME (LAS VEGAS) 

PERSON: FOGEL, HUGH; FOGEL, BONNIE; JACOBS, KARRIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (78%) NEVADA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) LAS VEGAS (NEV); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



367 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Son of the Project Breaks Free; 
From Dealing and Getting Shot to Writing Books

BYLINE:  By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 8 

 BODY:
Yanier Moore walked up the concrete steps of one of the hulking brick buildings of the Ida B. Wells housing project, the same steps where he was critically wounded in a drug-related shooting five years ago. The bullet that ripped through his groin, severing an artery, is still lodged in his right leg. He was hustling drugs in the project back then, resigned to the idea that he had no other prospects.
 Now, making one of his regular visits to his old neighborhood on a gray, wintry afternoon, he was giving away copies of his book, "Triple Take," the ghetto crime novel he says he wrote between drug sales on a Brother word processor he traded for four bags of crack. His buddies began approaching, climbing out of cars and appearing from around corners and out of doorways. 
 "Hey, Random House!" one of his old friends, Mario Bennett, called out. He wanted a book. Everyone wanted books. 
Mr. Moore, who is 31 and calls himself Blak (pronounced like black), is a hero at this project on the South Side. He is no longer a drug dealer or a crack-smoking gang member or jail inmate but a social worker, a poet and an author. As so many people here know, his novel is being published by Random House this month. He will be the subject of an autobiographical documentary on National Public Radio's "All Things Considered" on Thursday and also leave for a book tour to Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia. Against all odds, a son of the project is about to make his mark on the world not as a criminal or a victim or another sad statistic involving lost black men -- and not as a basketball player, either -- but as a writer.
"I pick up 'Triple Take' and flip through a couple pages and think, 'This is really something I wrote,' " Mr. Moore said. "It's a mixture of emotions: happy, sad, wonderment. Just getting to this point took so much."
To understand how astonishing Mr. Moore's journey has been, consider what the Ida B. Wells project is best known for by the outside world. This is the place where eight years ago a 5-year-old boy named Eric Morse was dropped to his death from the 14th floor of a building by two other boys, ages 10 and 11. His death became the defining symbol of Ida B. Wells. The gang killings and drug trafficking that had become routine by the 1980's stopped making headlines. So did articles about the children trapped in poverty and about adults unable to find their way into the legal economy.
Mr. Moore looked across the snow-covered vacant field to the spot where Eric died. The building was deemed so dangerous that the city eventually knocked it down. Mr. Moore has since moved to an apartment a few miles south, but his two young daughters are growing up in the project with their mother. Some of his closest friends are still here. He talks about the friend who is an artist, the one who can do complicated math problems in his head, the one who might have made it to the N.B.A.: all of them dealing drugs to survive. This is the Chicago that made Mr. Moore a drug dealer, a gang member and finally, a writer.
"As the man next to the man," he writes in the work in progress that is his memoir, using a street term for the inside expert, "I feel that fate has dealt me the cruel hand of watching these beautiful, talented, gifted, athletic, brilliant people waste away in the slums of the city. It's a hurting feeling, knowing that I know the truth about these people and that nobody else does or seems to care."
Even by the standards of Chicago's housing projects, Mr. Moore's childhood was bleak. When he was 2, he says, his father, Franklin Moore, a heroin addict, was shot to death while breaking into someone's house. Three years later, his mother, Betty Moore, a nurse's aide, died after being stabbed in the chest by her drunken boyfriend.
"I was sleeping with my mother atthe time," Mr. Moore recalled. "When she got up to open the door, I followed her. I was standing in the screen door when it happened."
He watched her die, he said. "It just seemed like she was embarrassed to die, like she disappointed me," he said. "It was just the look on her face."
He and his sister, Ytteb, who is a year older, began shuttling from one relative's apartment to the next. There were relatives who doled out beatings, Mr. Moore recalled. "I was a burden," he said. "It was, 'We poor, you another mouth to feed.' " By the time he was 7 or 8, he said, he had learned to steal food.
A big man who wears his hair in dreadlocks and has an easy gap-toothed smile, Mr. Moore was talking in his two-room apartment, sitting at the foot of the bed. A portrait of Malcolm X hung above the bed. His word processor was on his desk in the corner with pictures of his friends and his two daughters and toddler son on the wall above it.
As a small boy, he found one escape: books. "Ever since I was a child, I learned to lose myself in books," Mr. Moore writes in his memoir. "My favorite place on earth was the libraries of this city."
He became expert at stealing books. "I wanted the books," he said. "I didn't want to take them back."
Fantasy fiction was his favorite. "Once I got my hands on those books, it was over," he writes in his memoir. "You mean to tell me that I could do battle with magical creatures, ride horses, slay treacherous wizards, find unimaginable treasures and get the beautiful princess, all without leaving my filthy pallet on the floor?"
He was about 10, he says, when a tough, older teenager gave him "The Dopefiend," a novel by Donald Goines, now dead, a heroin addict from Detroit who had started writing in prison and has a large following among black readers in the inner city.
"I was sucked in," Mr. Moore said. "I knew dope fiends. It was about a ghetto. Donald Goines was writing about the world I lived in."
By 12 he was falling deeper into that world, living in abandoned apartments with friends and getting high on marijuana. By 15 he was selling dime bags of crack.
"They come looking for you," he said, speaking of the neighborhood dealers who were his first employers. "They say, 'You want some money shorty?' I jumped at it."
At the same time he was plowing through Goines's 16 novels and others by Goines's literary mentor, Robert Beck, a pimp novelist also called Iceberg Slim. He had started writing himself, rap lyrics, which turned into short stories. Meanwhile he went through high school in a drug haze.
He moved up in the drug hierarchy, selling cocaine by weight from an apartment at Ida B. Wells. At 20 he had his first daughter, went into a drug rehabilitation program and got clean, he says. But by 21, he was still in the drug trade.
"You're a predator," he said. "You're living in a predatory society. You start to rationalize it."
At 24 he sat down and started writing "Triple Take," he says. "I just wanted to be able to create something," he said. "I was just sitting there, thinking: 'What would I like to read about?' "
"Triple Take" unfolds on the gritty streets where the author grew up. The main character is released from prison after a 10-year term for armed robbery, determined to exact revenge on the three former friends who betrayed him to the police. He attends college in prison and plans eventually to help children.
Mr. Moore's first critic was his best friend, someone he called Black Jamie, a drug dealer back from prison who was later killed. "He'd say, 'Man, this is the new, improved Donald Goines,'" Mr. Moore said. "That's what made me go on." Jamie helped him get the prison scenes right, he said.
He sent "Triple Take" and a second novel to a publisher and was rejected. He kept dealing drugs.
Recovering from his wound, he made up his mind to get out of the drug business for good. He landed a job as a social worker with the state-financed Child Family Center on the South Side. Mr. Moore kept writing and getting rejection slips.
Three years ago a young man he knew from the Ida B. Wells neighborhood, Lloyd Newman, introduced him to David Isay, the documentary radio producer from New York. In 1993 Mr. Isay helped Mr. Newman and another young man from the project record an audio portrait of their lives that was broadcast on National Public Radio.
"When I first read his stuff, it knocked me off my feet," Mr. Isay said. He began sending Mr. Moore's work around to New York agents and editors. After a year of rejections Random House bought "Triple Take" for $15,000.
Mr. Moore hopes younger readers will pick up on his message, that drug dealers are ultimately held accountable. "Why I want the younger cats to read it," he said. "They're dealing drugs. Getting locked up come with it. Getting killed come with it."
Last summer he spotted a 12-year-old he knew selling drugs at the project. "I know exactly how he lives, with 14 people in a two-bedroom apartment. He's doing what he feels he ought to do. The hopelessness of the situation actually silenced me."
But now, Mr. Moore said, he hopes to run into the boy again, with his book. "It's not just me standing in the hallways speaking hollow words," he said. "It's saying 'You can actually do something.' If you see this book, this is a tangible accomplishment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yanier Moore, above at an interview in his apartment and below where he was shot five years ago. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); COCAINE (77%); GANGS (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); LITERATURE (75%); PUBLISHING (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POETRY (69%); MEN (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); CHILDREN (63%); BASKETBALL (63%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (54%)

PERSON: MOORE, YANIER; RIMER, SARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (69%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%) CHICAGO (ILL)

TITLE: TRIPLE TAKE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



368 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: For French, Apprehension About Travel to U.S. 

BYLINE:  BY MARY A. KELLY 

DATELINE: PARIS, March 12 

 BODY:
Last week, Vincent Koehl, a senior executive at Walt Disney in Paris and a frequent traveler to the United States, put aside his concerns about anti-French sentiment and his anxieties about a looming war and caught a British Airways flight to Los Angeles.
 Three days later, Mr. Koehl and his co-workers cut their stay short and flew home, even though their departure forced the cancellation of an important meeting of Disney executives from Asia, Europe and Latin America Instead, he said, they will try to finish their business by e-mail messaging and teleconferencing. 
 "We were supposed to be in the States this week," he said, "but after seeing the latest developments on the news, we canceled in the event the war begins this week." The group was concerned about being stranded in America if a war started and the uncertainty surrounding an outbreak of fighting. 
As war talk intensifies, skittish foreign executives are revising their travel plans to the United States. Some are canceling or postponing their trips, others are shortening them or looking for ways to avoid clogged airports. For the French, travel to America can be particularly unsettling. Anti-French hostility, while so far muted, is percolating below the surface, they say. And though it rarely boils over, it is often on their minds.
"I was very apprehensive before my trip to the States in February," said Marie-France Garros, an independent consultant with the Italian publisher De Agostini. "Being French, I wasn't sure what to expect."
Getting stranded or delayed in an airport is a bigger worry, of course. Philippe Messager, the group treasurer for the French utility company Vivendi Environnement and a frequent traveler to the United States, mostly avoided that problem on a recent trip by hiring a private plane for stops in Chattanooga, Tenn.; Columbus, Ohio; Houston; Milwaukee and New York.
But Mr. Messager and his group took a commercial flight on the last leg, to Cincinnati from Columbus, and that is when they received a taste of what so many American travelers have endured in the last year and a half. 
"There were long delays," he said. "And when I passed through the gate, the guy stopped me to look through my bags. I had to remove my shoes and my shirt. It took at least 15 minutes to be checked by this guy; it was a nightmare."
Most French executives say their companies have not yet issued formal policies on travel to the United States. Until they do, probably sometime soon, employees are free to make their own decisions.
The lackluster world economy has also influenced the travel habits of French executives. Jacques Alonso, a director of country sales for American Airlines in Paris, says more French executives are flying coach because they can no longer afford business class. Beginning April 1, he says, American Airlines will cancel first-class service on all its 767's worldwide. 
"We only have 767's flying from Paris, so we'll only do two classes, business and coach," Mr. Alonso said. "We'll add another row in business and about four rows in coach. It is what the customer in the French market is looking for -- they don't need beds."
Once they land in America, one thing they encounter is anti-French sentiment, fueled by France's opposition to a war with Iraq. Most French travelers say the French-bashing is confined to the political arena, talk shows and good-natured ribbings by American colleagues, and is not aimed at them. Still, they are finding themselves being questioned by Americans about French foreign policy. Most are careful not to provoke their hosts by flaunting their nationality or offering political opinions, but occasionally the conversations do become pointed.
"I was asked everywhere about my opinion, even in Asia," said Emmanuelle Mace Driskill, a manager in Paris for the luxury products company Givenchy, who made trips to New York and Guam in late January and to Hong Kong in February. "People are curious to know why France is saying no to the U.S."
"Americans told me: 'France forgot about what we did 60 years ago," Ms. Driskill said. "I'd say: 'When the U.S. was created, France was in favor of giving freedom to the colonies. So how far back do you want to go in history?' People are curious, but there was no gun pointed at my head."
Other executives say they felt frustrated by the anti-French jokes and comments they hear, especially because they do not believe that Americans understand the French position.
"Everybody here has an opinion about the French position, but I have the impression that no one has really heard the French voice," said Olivier Chereau, a banker at Societe Generale's New York office. On the other hand, he said, "my U.S. colleagues don't care what I'm thinking about and everyone is very professional."
"Of course, on television I have the impression of being attacked all the time," Mr. Chereau said. "The television here is very anti-French."
Even so, that sentiment apparently has not spilled over into the economic sphere. Mr. Chereau says the owner of a French restaurant in New York told him only two or three patrons had made an issue of France's diplomatic stand, despite talk in some quarters of a boycott of French products.
And Mr. Messager of Vivendi Environnement, whose principal shareholder is Vivendi Universal, the conglomerate, seemed equally unworried. "We make 20 percent of our revenues in the U.S. and as far as I can see, we don't have a problem," he said. "Assuming there is not a war, if I had to travel there again tomorrow, I'd be very relaxed."
Asked what advice she would give to fellow French travelers to the United States, Ms. Driskill of Givenchy got right to the point. "Don't be too arrogant," she said, "the French have a reputation for this."
Mr. Chereau of Societe Generale urged his compatriots to pack a sense of humor and shrug off anti-French jokes. Just the other day, he said, his American boss showed him a drawing of a meeting in the United Nations. Security Council. "One guy in the drawing had his hand up and underneath it said something like 'Please, France, don't surrender,' " he said. "I didn't say anything. I laughed; it was funny, but I didn't agree with it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TELECONFERENCING (71%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT SA (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%); VIE (PAR) (53%); VE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (53%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (53%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (53%)

PERSON: KELLY, MARY A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (53%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%) IRAQ; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



369 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: COMMODITIES; 
Oil Futures Hit 12-Year High On News of Inventory Decline

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Crude oil futures closed at a 12-year high yesterday, for the third time in the last two weeks, after the Energy Department reported an unexpected decline in inventories.
 Supplies of crude oil last week fell 1.4 percent, to 269.8 million barrels, the department said. Inventories were 16 percent lower than they were a year earlier and close to a 28-year low. Analysts had expected an increase. The decline came as the United States appears headed for a war in Iraq, which pumps about 3 percent of the world's oil. 
 "This is a big problem," said John Kilduff, senior vice president for energy-risk management at Fimat USA in New York. "You don't want to have low oil inventories when the country is about to go to war."
Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.11, or 3 percent, to $37.83 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, registering the highest closing price since Oct. 16, 1990, when the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait cut off exports from both countries.
Prices reached $39.99 a barrel during trading on Feb. 27, the highest intraday price since October 1990, when futures rose to a record $41.15.
In London, the April Brent crude-oil futures contract rose 62 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $33.91 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange.
Crude oil imports fell 12 percent, to 7.62 million barrels a day in the week ended March 7, the weekly report on petroleum inventories, production and imports said.
"This is as bad as it gets," said Ed Silliere, vice president for risk management at Energy Merchant in New York, which markets gasoline and heating oil to local distributors. "Supplies are very tight."
Analysts had expected that increasing imports from Venezuela and Saudi Arabia would send inventories higher. A strike in Venezuela had been limiting shipments to the United States.
Venezuela pumped about 3 million barrels of oil a day before the strike began in December and now is pumping 2.7 million barrels a day, according to the Venezuelan government. Striking oil workers say production is closer to 1.9 million barrels a day.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since Sept. 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (95%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (90%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



370 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Taxing the Binge 

BYLINE:  By Jim Gogek; Jim Gogek, an editorial writer for The San Diego Union-Tribune, is a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation fellow.

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
In the next few months, legislators across the country, struggling with the worst fiscal crisis to hit states since World War II, will cut the financing of social programs. This will probably mean the demise of many alcohol and drug programs that keep adults out of jails and emergency rooms and children out of foster care and juvenile halls.
 There is a solution: raise alcohol taxes to pay for social services. Taxes on alcohol don't even begin to pay the costs of alcohol abuse. Federal estimates put those costs at $185 billion, while federal, state and local alcohol tax revenues total about $18 billion. 
 Alcohol excise taxes used to be a significant slice of federal budget receipts, representing 11 percent in 1941. Today, they're less than 1 percent and dropping. Because of pressure from the alcohol industry, federal liquor taxes have increased only twice since 1951, and beer and wine taxes only once. Meanwhile, a few states have raised taxes a little while others have cut them. With inflation, the real value of state alcohol taxes has fallen by half since 1966.
Increasing state alcohol taxes would not only provide more money to reduce problems caused by alcohol abuse, it would also reduce alcohol abuse itself by raising prices, according to a federal report to Congress. Several studies show higher taxes particularly cut drinking by teenagers, who have less money than adults to buy alcohol.
But probably the most compelling argument for raising alcohol taxes is this: it makes the industry shoulder a more equitable share of responsibility for the problems caused by alcohol abuse. And the fact is that the industry makes most of its profits from that abuse. Binge drinking (five or more drinks at a time) accounts for 83 percent of all alcohol consumed. And sales to under-age drinkers amount to nearly 20 percent of the total market, or about $20 billion in illegally purchased alcohol, according to a study last month in The Journal of the American Medical Association. 
Raising taxes would also make the heaviest drinkers pay more, which is fair because they're the ones associated with the worst alcohol-related problems.
It's worth noting that the alcohol lobby is more powerful than ever, and that it is a significant contributor to political campaigns. Beer wholesalers gave about $160,000 last year to politicians in New York. Gov. George Pataki is pushing a plan to cut beer taxes, despite a $12 billion shortfall over the next two years. The reduction would leave New York with some of the lowest beer taxes in the nation.
In California, the alcohol industry donated $2.4 million in 2002, including nearly $260,000 to Gov. Gray Davis. Mr. Davis has supported raising cigarette taxes to help close the state's $35 billion gap, but not alcohol taxes.
So far this year, 17 states have proposed raising alcohol taxes, but many have retreated in the face of the uproar from the alcohol industry. Tax increase proposals are fading in Ohio, Georgia and New Mexico. The Maryland governor has promised to veto proposed sin taxes. In South Dakota, lobbyists for alcohol retailers and wholesalers just persuaded legislators to kill a bill that would have raised taxes a mere 4 cents per drink. Industry influence is paying off.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Benita Raphan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXCISE TAX (77%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); FOSTER CARE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); WHOLESALERS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (68%); POLITICS (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



371 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Are Modestly Higher With Iraq Still the Subtext

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks finished modestly higher yesterday, lifted by late-session bargain hunting after the Dow Jones industrial average pushed close to a five-year low. The gains came despite market wariness about the deadlock in the United Nations Security Council over Iraq.
 Before rebounding, the Dow fell more than 100 points, led by a brokerage firm's downgrading of oil stocks. But analysts played down the significance of the turnaround, noting that the number of declining issues outpaced those advancing. 
 "A lot of the technicals have been talking about the market being oversold," said Mike Weiner, managing director for equities at Banc One Investment Advisers. "When you start to see things like that, you may see a day or two of rallies."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 28.01 points, or 0.37 percent, at 7,552.07, after a two-day loss of some 216 points to a five-month low. The Dow is about 265 points above its five-year closing low of 7,286.27, reached on Oct. 9.
Broader indexes also finished higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.46 points, or 0.43 percent, to 804.19. The Nasdaq composite index gained 7.77 points, or 0.61 percent, to 1,279.24.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers on the New York Stock Exchange about 4 to 3. Volume was 1.63 billion shares, up from 1.44 billion on Tuesday. There were 36 new highs and 316 new lows.
Wall Street has experienced choppy, if largely negative, trading in recent weeks as investors make short-term bets on how soon a war with Iraq might begin and how costly it would be. Analysts said that until there is some resolution, businesses will refrain from the capital spending sorely needed to revive the economy.
The United States and Britain have been trying to win Security Council approval for giving Iraq a March 17 deadline to disarm or face war. They face stiff resistance, and yesterday, Britain set out a list of conditions for Iraqi disarmament, hoping to gain support. 
Scott Wren, equity strategist at A. G. Edwards & Sons, suggested setting "a deadline for war or peace, so we can turn to concerns that are more economically oriented."
Mixed news on the nation's trade deficit did little to inspire investors. The Commerce Department reported that the trade gap narrowed n January, to $41.1 billion, from December's deficit of $44.9 billion.
Gainers included Ford, which climbed 48 cents, to $7.08, after UBS Warburg upgraded its stock to neutral from reduce. General Motors rose 71 cents, to $30.63.
But oil stocks fell on a sector downgrading by J. P. Morgan. Exxon Mobil, a Dow component, dropped 51 cents, to $34.06, while ChevronTexaco lost 69 cents, to $63.05.
Battered European stocks fell further, with the benchmark index in Germany down 4.44 percent, in France down 3.62 percent and in Britain down 4.80 percent.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Mixed
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices were mixed yesterday, as yields neared half-centurylows and a rebound in stocks deterred some investors from buying the fixed-rate securities.
"Treasuries are running out of steam," said Gary Pollack, who helps manage $10 billion at Deutsche Bank's private banking unit. "You have to wonder how much they can rally at these levels. How much lower can they go?"
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to a price of 102 13/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 3.59 percent. The 30-year bond rose 18/32, to 111 30/32. Its yield fell to 4.61 percent from 4.64 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); DISARMAMENT (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); APPROVALS (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); CHEVRON CORP (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (71%); JPM (LSE) (71%); 8634 (TSE) (71%); XOM (NYSE) (50%); CVX (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



372 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Is Narrower As Economy Slows Buying 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
The trade deficit narrowed in January from a record as Americans bought fewer foreign-made goods in a slowing economy and exports rose, the Commerce Department reported today.
 The trade gap in goods and services was $41.1 billion, trailing only a revised $44.9 billion deficit in December, the department said. For all of last year, the deficit reached a record $435.7 billion. 
 Growth forecasts are slipping as consumers rein in spending and business investment is stagnant, suggesting that Americans may buy fewer imported goods. Economic growth may ebb this year to 2.3 percent from 2.4 percent in 2002, a U.C.L.A. study said. In February, manufacturing slowed, 308,000 jobs evaporated and consumer confidence reached a nine-year low.
"We will see less inventory building in the first quarter and therefore fewer imports," given the prospect of war with Iraq and the slowing economy, said Elisabeth Stoegmueller, a Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein economist in New York who projected that the deficit would narrow to $41.5 billion. "It comes down to final demand in the end, and that is just not picking up yet."
Imports fell 2 percent in January, to $123 billion, led by declines for autos and consumer goods, while exports rose 1.6 percent, to $81.9 billion, helped in part by a weaker dollar. The dollar has fallen 26 percent against the euro and 9 percent against the yen in a year, making American goods less costly relative to European and Japanese products.
Economists had forecast a deficit of $43.4 billion compared with $44.2 billion in December.
Imports of autos and parts dropped 4.9 percent in January, to $16.8 billion. Americans bought 3.9 percent less in imported consumer goods, and companies spent 1.1 percent less on capital goods like telecommunications equipment and computers.
Rising oil prices, spurred by political discord in Venezuela and war expectations in the gulf region, pushed the value of petroleum imports to $7.4 billion from $7 billion the previous month. The price of oil surged nearly 15 percent, and the number of barrels imported fell to 268.4 million from 289.3 million as Venezuelan exports dropped.
Shipments abroad of consumer goods rose 6.9 percent in January, to $7.4 billion, led by a surge in pharmaceuticals. Foreign companies bought 2.5 percent more capital goods.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. January 2003Balance: -$41.11Imports: 123.02Exports: 81.91 Graph tracks Imports and Exports since 2001 and the defecit on a 12-month moving average.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); US DOLLAR (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); EURO (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



373 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1237 words

PERSON: Howard Fast 

HEADLINE: Howard Fast, 88, Best-Selling Novelist, Dies 

BYLINE:  By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
Howard Fast, whose best-selling historical fiction often featured the themes of freedom and human rights, elements in his own tumultuous political journey through the blacklisting of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 88.
 Mr. Fast was one of the 20th century's busiest writers, turning out more than 80 books -- plus short stories, journalism, screenplays and poetry -- in a career that began in the early 1930's. 
 With novels like "Citizen Tom Paine" (1943), "Freedom Road" (1944) and "Spartacus" (1953), Mr. Fast won popular acclaim for authenticity and detail, creating stories that even his critics admired as page-turners. 
Mr. Fast's fiction was always didactic to a degree, opposed to modernism, engaged in social struggle and insistent on taking sides and teaching lessons of life's moral significance, and he liked it that way.
"Since I believe that a person's philosophical point of view has little meaning if it is not matched by being and action, I found myself willingly wed to an endless series of unpopular causes, experiences which I feel enriched my writing as much as they depleted other aspects of my life," he said in a 1972 interview. 
Despite the international popularity of historical novels like "Paine," which glorified the professional revolutionary, and the huge commercial success that Mr. Fast's well-paced narratives achieved, his work tended to succeed or fail as art to the extent that he distanced himself from ideology. 
At his best, in a novel like "The Last Frontier" (1941), about the flight in 1878 of the Cheyenne Indians to their Powder River home in Wyoming, he achieved powerful effects through imaginative objectivity. At his less successful, in novels like "Clarkton" (1947), about a textile-mill strike, and "Silas Timberman" (1954), about an academic victim of McCarthyism, he was sometimes faulted as being drawn toward propagandistic sentimentality.
His output was slowed but not entirely interrupted by the blacklisting he endured in the 1950's after it became known that he had been a member of the Communist Party and then refused to cooperate with the House Un-American Activities Committee. He served three months in a federal prison in 1950 for contempt of Congress, a charge arising from his refusal to produce the records of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee.
Mr. Fast joined the party in 1943, a decision he often said was made at least in part because of the poverty he experienced as a child growing up in Upper Manhattan. He left the party in 1956, disillusioned by the Soviet Union's own stunning revelations of Stalin's terror and the spread of anti-Semitism there.
He wrote a book about his political experiences, "The Naked God" (1957). "I was part of a generation that believed in socialism and finally found that belief corroded and destroyed," he said in an interview in 1981. "That is not renouncing Communism or socialism. It's reaching a certain degree of enlightenment about what the Soviet Union practices. To be dogmatic about a cause you believe in at the age of 20 or 30 is not unusual. But to be dogmatic at age 55 or 60 shows a lack of any learning capacity."
Howard Melvin Fast was born Nov. 11, 1914, in Manhattan, one of four children of a working-class couple. His father, Barney, was first an ironworker, then a cable-car conductor, then a garment worker. His mother, Ida, died when he was a child. He often worked part-time jobs to help make ends meet, and graduated from George Washington High School.
He sold his first story to Amazing Stories magazine when he was 17. The next year he sold his first novel, a historical romance called "Two Villages," to the Dial Press for a $100 advance.
In 1939, after he had published two more books, Simon & Schuster published "Conceived in Liberty," a novel about Valley Forge, which has sold about a million copies and has been translated into more than a dozen languages. That was followed by "The Last Frontier" and then "The Unvanquished" (1942), about George Washington during the bleakest months of the Revolution. The critic Carl Van Doren said "The Unvanquished" was "the next thing to having been on the scene at the time." 
But Mr. Fast's breakthrough came in 1943 with "Citizen Tom Paine," which the playwright Elmer Rice called, in a highly favorable front-page review in The New York Times Book Review, "a vivid portrait of one of the most extraordinary figures of the 18th century."
Many critics and historians agreed that the book played a significant role in restoring the reputation of Paine, the pamphleteer who had been "greatly neglected and greatly misunderstood," Rice wrote, "the victim both of a conspiracy of silence and of a campaign of calumny."
In 1944 came the best-selling "Freedom Road," about a former slave in the post-Civil War South who becomes a United States senator and then fights for his life against the Ku Klux Klan. In 1979 "Freedom Road" was made into a television mini-series starring Muhammad Ali and Kris Kristofferson.
From the start, Mr. Fast said, "Freedom Road" was more than a book with a black as the central character. "Its viewpoint," he said, "was considered a shocking one for either popular fiction or for history. In it, the Reconstruction was seen as a time of black renaissance. The carpetbaggers were not raping the South, as in the then popularly held view, but were helping the blacks to education and economic achievement." 
During those years, Mr. Fast won the Stalin International Peace Prize, in 1953, and "Spartacus," about a slave revolt in ancient Rome, was published. Because of the blacklist, the manuscript went from publisher to publisher without success. Finally, a Doubleday executive said that Mr. Fast should publish it himself but that Doubleday would order 600 copies for its bookstores. It became a best seller.
The stigma of the blacklist gradually faded after Mr. Fast's repudiation of Communism. "Spartacus" was reprinted as a paperback and in 1960 was made into a successful movie starring Kirk Douglas. Many other successful novels followed, including "April Morning" (1961) and a best-selling multigenerational saga of the Lavette family that began with "The Immigrants" (1977) and included "Second Generation" (1978), "The Establishment" (1979) and "The Legacy" (1981). 
Mr. Fast's first wife, the former Bette Cohen, died in 1994. He is survived by their children, the novelist Jonathan Fast of Greenwich and Rachel Ben Avi of Sarasota, Fla., and three grandchildren. He is also survived by his second wife, Mercedes O'Connor, whom he married in 1999, and by her three sons, Connor Denis, of Old Greenwich, Augustus Denis, of New Orleans, and James Denis, of Old Greenwich.
Mr. Fast also wrote a popular series of detective stories under the name E. V. Cunningham. His hero was a nisei detective, Masao Masuto, a member of the Beverly Hills police force. Masuto was a Zen Buddhist, and Mr. Fast himself was very much involved in Zen, "as a form of meditation and a very nice way of looking at the world," as he put it. 
Mr. Fast continued to write into his 80's. His last novel, "Greenwich," a story of a high-society dinner party in Greenwich, Conn., and an exploration of guilt and redemption in American society, was published in 2000.
"The only thing that infuriates me," he once commented, "is that I have more unwritten stories in me than I can conceivably write in a lifetime."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Fast (Judith Pszenica, 2000) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); HISTORY (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); JOURNALISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); POETRY (71%); TEXTILE MILLS (61%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

FAST, HOWARD; ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



374 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Pataki Sees The Enemy, Carrying Pens

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
"With your financial support, I will be able to get my message out to New Yorkers directly -- without distortion from the elite, liberal media -- and to fight on a level playing field with our opponents."
-- Gov. George E. Pataki, in a fund-raising letter to supporters last week, in which he also warned that "we cannot take these liberals lightly."
 NOW this is irresistible. A governor who has made an art of saying as little as possible about as much as possible is suddenly worried about getting his "message" across? For what purpose is he raising money if he is not planning an ad campaign against his "opponents," an intention denied by his chief spokeswoman, Lisa Dewald Stoll. 
 And who, pray tell, are "the elite, liberal media"? It is tempting to wax indignant at this point. Let us instead fall back on facts.
During his re-election campaign last year against H. Carl McCall, a Democrat, Mr. Pataki was endorsed by most major daily newspapers in the state, and they run the ideological gamut. Among those that supported him: The Times Union of Albany, The Post-Standard of Syracuse, The Record of Troy, The Star-Gazette of Elmira, The Staten Island Advance, The Daily Messenger of Canandaigua, The Poughkeepsie Journal, The Times Herald-Record of Middletown, The Buffalo News, Newsday, The New York Post, The Daily News and The New York Times. 
Could the "elite, liberal media" refer, perhaps, to The Post-Standard of Syracuse, which in its endorsement said it was time for Mr. Pataki "to burnish a legacy that will put him in the same company with the political giants who have led New York State in the past"? Maybe he meant The New York Times, which called him a "generally sensible steward of the public's money"? Or The Poughkeepsie Journal, which praised his environmental record?
Perhaps Mr. Pataki believes that the papers that supported him but now question his fiscal policies -- notably his opposition to higher taxes -- have fallen under the spell of the liberal elites. 
Or maybe his scorn is intended not for editorial writers but for reporters, who cover the news, which tends to cling to facts.
It is a fact that as a result of Sept. 11, a bad economy and the budget policies of the governor and the Legislature, the budget gap in this year's budget and next stands at a projected $11.5 billion. It is a fact that in just three years, the state budget has grown to $90 billion from $74 billion -- almost $10 billion more than was necessary to keep pace with inflation.
It is a fact that the governor expanded Medicaid benefits -- which he is now trying to cut back -- and that he spent money that could have improved health care on wages for hospital workers whose leader then endorsed him.
It is also a fact that to close the budget gap the governor wants to go deeper into debt, spend nonrecurring revenue and cut programs. And that he has been criticized not only from the left for refusing to raise taxes significantly but also from the right for not cutting enough and for raising fares and fees and supporting some modest tax increases.
As E. J. McMahon, an analyst with the conservative Manhattan Institute, points out, to complain about how the large budget gap developed -- by the governor and lawmakers spending generously and using up most of the state's reserve funds in an election year as the economy weakened -- "is not conservative or liberal."
Mr. McMahon, who does not take Mr. Pataki's letter very seriously, added that he has criticized the governor's current budget plan, "largely from the conservative point of view." 
"I am happy he is not increasing taxes," he said, "but I am concerned he is not doing enough to reduce spending." 
Eugene Keilin, former chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission and an alumnus of the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, said he considered it unfortunate that the state's budget problem had become so politicized. "We did not get through that fiscal crisis on ideology," he said. "People did what was practical, not what was ideological."
Perhaps Mr. Pataki could take a cue from the 1970's -- or better yet, the 1960's. His news media plaint recalls the famous advice once given to President Lyndon B. Johnson when, deeply mired in the Vietnam War and its deficits, he blamed the press for producing his "credibility problem." Unsparingly, the White House press secretary, George Reedy, told his boss: "You don't have a press problem. You have a political problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); MEDIA BIAS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WRITERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ENDORSEMENTS; TAXATION 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



375 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: 2 Committees Offer Budgets; Impact on Deficit Is in Doubt 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
The House and Senate Budget Committees presented budgets today that would cut taxes and eventually balance the budget, but the plans would accomplish deficit reduction in ways that are probably politically unrealistic.
 The House plan proposes a balanced budget in 2010. It reaches that level by showing nearly $500 billion in spending cuts in popular benefit programs like Medicare, Medicaid and veterans' health care. 
 The Senate plan would reach a balanced budget in 2013. It would restrict spending sharply for military and domestic programs in the fiscal years 2009 through 2013, with spending levels that might be easy to vote for this year but that might be difficult to justify as the years affected drew closer. 
The Senate plan also includes a proposal that the Republicans say they hope will increase the prospects for approval of oil exploration in environmentally sensitive areas of Alaska. 
Neither plan takes any account of a possible war against Iraq or reconstruction costs afterward, a fact that Democrats said made the plans unreliable.
The plans are called budget resolutions. They are not binding and do not carry the force of law.
The tax and spending levels for fiscal years beyond 2004, which begins on Oct. 1, are merely advisory and can easily be changed in the years ahead.
But the resolutions establish the framework for the actual tax and spending legislation Congress will consider this year for fiscal year 2004 and create parliamentary procedures that could affect the outcome of that legislation.
The plans show deficits in the 2004 fiscal year slightly lower than the one the president proposed in the budget he sent Congress last month.
As computed by the Congressional Budget Office, the president's budget calls for a deficit of $338 billion; the House committee, $324 billion; and the Senate committee, $330 billion. 
The details of the House and Senate committee plans are not so important at this stage because they are sure to be changed before a final plan is adopted by Congress. Both committees are stacked with Republican loyalists, who, as they showed in the House tonight, can outvote the Democrats at every turn.
But a group of moderate senators who hold the balance of power in the closely divided Senate have made it clear that they will not accept more than a part of the $726 billion in tax cuts that the administration proposed as an economic growth package and that both committees included in their plans.
What is more important than the details is the principle underlying the budget plans. It is that the only way to cut taxes and balance the budget is to reduce spending on the military or the most popular government benefit programs.
The Senate plan, for instance, appears to hold military spending in the fiscal years 2009 through 2013 below what the budget office says would be necessary to support the same spending levels President Bush has proposed for 2008.
The House plan would save $470 billion over the next decade in benefit programs. Assuming Social Security is untouchable, the reductions could not be attained without cutting Medicare, Medicaid, student aid, veterans' health care and other program that lawmakers are reluctant to vote against.
Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee, insisted that the plan he drafted would "one, protect Americans; two, get Americans back to work and strengthen the economy; three, get the budget back on a path to balance."
But the top Democrat on the panel, Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, said the Republicans had "built their budget around their single-minded goal of enacting large and fiscally irresponsible tax cuts" that would lead to unacceptable reductions in essential programs like Medicare.
The Senate plan has two features that would be especially important if they end up in the final resolution.
One would allow Senate consideration of oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge under procedures that would not permit a filibuster.
That means the centerpiece of the administration's energy policy and one that is anathema to most Democrats and environmentalists could be approved by a majority vote instead of the 60 votes that would be needed to break a filibuster.
Based on senators' voting records and past statements of position, the Senate is divided almost 50-50 on the issue, and a majority vote could go either way, say lobbyists who follow the issue closely.
The other important feature would reinstate budgetary discipline rules that were in effect from 1991 until this year.
The rules were sometimes bypassed, but they were instrumental in achieving deficit reduction in the 1990's. 
One rule required any tax cut or increase in spending for a benefit program to be offset dollar for dollar by a tax increase or spending cut.
This rule would not go into effect until the Bush tax cuts were dealt with.
Another rule set specific spending caps on the government programs that are subject to annual Congressional appropriations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, left, and Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, at a Budget Committee meeting yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MEDICARE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); OIL EXPLORATION (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (68%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAXATION 

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



376 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Cash Flow, Universities Hit an Ebb 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
For the first time in 15 years, charitable contributions to universities and colleges dropped last year, according to a survey of 960 institutions that will be released today. The figures provide some of the clearest evidence to date of the effect that a shrunken stock market and weakened economy are having on philanthropy.
 Educational institutions vie with churches for distinction as the nation's top beneficiaries of philanthropy, but in the year that ended June 30, 2002, donations fell 1.2 percent, to $23.9 billion, compared with $24.2 billion in the same period a year earlier, according to the survey. 
 Adjusted for inflation, giving to education fell 2.5 percent. "That may not seem like much, but it comes at a time when other sources of revenues like government support and income from endowments are also in decline," said Ann Kaplan, director of the survey, by the RAND Corporation Council for Aid to Education. 
Ms. Kaplan said three-quarters of the institutions responding to the survey reported a decline in 2002.
Georgetown University's experience was typical. After raising $92 million, a record, in the 2001 fiscal year, fund-raising fell 15.2 percent to $78 million the next year. "We're not used to declines," said Michael Goodwin, a vice president at Georgetown.
Mr. Goodwin said some of the decline could be attributed to the 2001 terror attacks, but Georgetown, like other universities, has been finding it harder to raise the multimillion-dollar gifts that helped spur increases over the last several years.
Those gifts are not gone. On Tuesday, Old Dominion University announced that Frank Batten Sr., who created the media empire called Landmark Communications Inc., had given it $32 million, and yesterday, Harvard Business School said that Mr. Batten had given the same amount to its capital campaign. 
University officials say they have heard reports that Mr. Batten plans eight more big gifts. He did not return a call to his office.
"That's the exception that proves the rule," Mr. Goodwin said. "Most of the people we're talking to who have the ability to make that kind of a gift are either not as well off as they were two or three years ago or they are uncertain about the future."
University fund-raising officials agree that winning donations is more difficult now, but some have still fared well. "We're on target here to have our eighth consecutive record year and hit the $100 million mark," said Christopher R. Reaske, vice president for development and alumni relations at Boston University.
Mr. Reaske said the university had pulled in $71.4 million as of March 7, a 39.5 percent increase over the same period last year. But Mr. Reaske said pledges of $10,000 and more were down 9.7 percent compared with last year. 
The survey showed giving fell most sharply, 13.6 percent, among alumni, who have traditionally accounted for the largest part of charitable giving to higher education. While support from foundations increased 5 percent and corporate giving held steady, they could not offset the drop in giving from alumni.
Carol Weston, an author of books for teenagers, planned to celebrate her 25th reunion this year with a larger than usual gift to her alma mater, Yale University. But after doing her taxes, she changed her mind.
"It would be great if this year I could say, 'You know, I'm going to give in the thousands instead of in the hundreds,' " Ms. Weston said. "But I just don't feel I can."
Development officials say it is too early to tell whether the fund-raising dip will continue.
"While we're ahead of the game now, we would adamantly stress that we'll still have to wait and see," said James Kunetka, executive vice president for communications in the office of resource development at the University of Texas at Austin. "I'm not at all ready to say this is going to be a banner year."
Cash contributions peaked three years ago, but in the first five months of this fiscal year, which began Sept. 1, $75 million came through the university's door, a 19 percent increase over the same period a year earlier.
Mr. Kunetka hesitated to call that a turnaround because he said some donors had paid pledges early, increasing gifts beyond what they might have been. 
"It's hard to know at this point how much is the economy and the stock market and how much is the normal ebb and flow of fund-raising," Mr. Kunetka said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); BONDS (70%); ALUMNI (69%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%); LANDMARK COMMUNICATIONS INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (56%) RAND CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: FRANK BATTEN SR (67%) KAPLAN, ANN; STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



377 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stock Option Reform Plan Is Stalled at the S.E.C.
A plan proposed last summer to give shareholders veto power over moves by companies to dole out stock options is stalled at the Securities and Exchange Commission, which concedes that the rule will not go into effect in time for annual shareholder meetings.
 Directors of at least one big company have approved a big stock option plan. Some shareholder advocates worry that other companies, too, will rush new options plans onto their books, in case the rule goes into effect by the end of the year. Page A1. 

The Financial Accounting Standards Board voted to overhaul rules on stock options and to push for greater disclosures from companies in their pension fund accounting. C5.

Some Interest in Publishing Houses
The first round of AOL Time Warner's auction of its book publishing houses Warner Books and Little, Brown drew preliminary bids from publishers, including Random House and W.H. Smith. HarperCollins, however, decided to drop out, diminishing the sense of strong competitive bidding. The company initially hoped to raise $400 million from the sale, but the price may well fall below that. C4.

Late Bargain-Hunting Lifts Stocks
Late-session bargain-hunting lifted stocks. The Dow Jones industrials rose 28.01 points, to 7,552.07. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.46 points, to 804.19. The Nasdaq composite gained 7.77 points, to 1,279.24. C7.

Lawmakers in Japan proposed several measures meant to prop up the stock market. World Business, Section W.

Crude oil futures closed at a 12-year high after the Energy Department reported an unexpected decline in inventories. C7.

Trade Deficit Narrows From Record
The trade deficit narrowed in January, to $41.1 billion from a record $44.9 billion in December, as Americans bought fewer foreign-made goods in a slowing economy and exports rose, the Commerce Department reported. C2.

MTV Refuses Antiwar Commercial
MTV has refused to accept a commercial opposing a war in Iraq, citing a policy against advocacy spots. Nonetheless, viewers in New York and Los Angeles will be able to see it starting today because its backers bought time on local cable. Advertising. C4.

The feud between the YES Network and Cablevision ended with a one-year deal to make the channel's Yankees and Nets games available to three million subscribers. D1.

El Paso Appoints Interim Chief
The El Paso Corporation appointed Ronald L. Kuehn Jr., a director, to be interim chief executive after the search to replace William A. Wise was disrupted by a proxy fight. C3.

Olivetti Chairman Plans Merger
Marco Tronchetti Provera, left, who is chairman of Telecom Italia and Olivetti, announced a plan to merge the companies by exchanging Olivetti stock for the 45 percent of Telecom Italia that Olivetti does not already own. Telecom Italia investors reacted with fury, saying the proposed merger would shortchange them. World Business, Section W.

Natalie Merchant Is on Her Own
After 17 years with Elektra Records, Natalie Merchant has decided to go it alone. She will release her next album this summer on her own label, Myth America Records. E1.

Why New Savings Plans Won't Work
Even as they put holes in the budget, President Bush's tax-deferred savings plans are unlikely to encourage people to put more money away. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,552.07 up 28.01Nasdaq composite -- 1,279.24 up 7.7710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.59% Unch.The euro -- $1.0998 down 0.0033The dollar -- 117.32 yen up 0.14 Graph: "TODAY" shows Retail Sales since August.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.5% Graph tracks AOL Time Warner's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK OPTIONS (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); PUBLISHING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); FUTURES (79%); MERGERS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); VETO (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (81%); AOL INC (69%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (56%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (69%); TIT (BIT) (50%); TI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



378 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: HOW IT WORKS; 
In a Single Swipe, a Wealth of Data (Beware of Thieves)

BYLINE:  By ROY FURCHGOTT 

 BODY:
IT'S one of the unsung heroes of modern commerce, a small electronic device that, almost as much as oil and electricity, keeps the economy humming. Without the magnetic card reader, how would America's credit-happy society function?
 Card readers are found just about anywhere that money changes hands: at stores, restaurants, A.T.M.'s, even gas pumps. But they are also used in many other places where the currency is information, not cash. People attending trade shows, for example, are often given magnetic ID cards that with a simple swipe at a booth can pass along a name, address and phone number. It is the electronic equivalent of dropping off a business card. 
 But there is a dark side to this technology. Criminals have discovered that small battery-powered readers known as skimmers or wedges can be used to steal credit-card data from unsuspecting consumers. Counterfeit cards can then be made that can be used to ring up huge charges that may go undetected.
The card reader is a relatively simple device, at the heart of which is a head not unlike the head on atape deck. In fact, the stripe on a credit card is analogous to a short piece of magnetic tape. Like the music on a standard cassette tape, the information on the stripe is in analog, not digital, form.
All readers and cards are created under a set of technical standards established by the American National Standards Institute and the International Organization for Standardization. Every card of the same type must have the same data in the same places so they can work in readers worldwide.
On financial cards, the stripe on the back has three tracks of data that contain information like account number, account holder's name, card expiration date and PIN code. There is also a field for discretionary data, which might include further security information or link the card to another account.
The reader's head reads each track simultaneously as the card is passed through. No two people swipe at exactly the same speed, so electronic circuitry in the reader insures that the data is read correctly regardless. But that also makes card-number theft relatively simple. Skimming relying on such devices, which are often sold by small fly-by-night Internet companies for anywhere from $250 to $1,200, poses a growing problem for law enforcement and is costing consumers millions of dollars a year.
In a recent raid in Queens, detectives discovered a laptop computer containing 4,300 stolen card numbers that had been taken from patrons in pharmacies, shoe stores and convenience stores in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
Like many similar groups around the world, the Queens ring had equipped itself with everything to make counterfeit cards, law enforcement officials said, including legitimate blank cards that may have been stolen from American Express and MasterCard. The officials estimated that counterfeit cards using those numbers could be used to purchase roughly $13 million in goods before all of the fraud was uncovered and the cards canceled.
In most skimmer rings, the numbers are obtained by low-level operatives, often store clerks or waiters, whose jobs involve handling customers' cards. They can easily pass the cards through a small skimmer that they carry or have placed next to a cash register.
"The waiter takes your card, the waiter leaves your table, reaches in his apron, swipes your card through the skimmer, and in two seconds -- even less -- compromises all of your numbers," said Gregg James, a special agent in the financial crimes division of the Secret Service.
Criminals may not bother to conceal the skimmers from victims. "In a lot of cases they may wear them on their belt, and most people don't know what they are looking at," said Skeet Rolling, director of fraud control services for TSYS, a global payment processor based in Columbus, Ga.
Some skimmers have been more audacious, taping one of the devices to an A.T.M. with a sign asking patrons to use the "card cleaner" before all transactions. Others have concealed a skimmer inside a hollowed-out pager, also worn on the belt.
Skimmers contain a small memory chip that can usually hold 50 to 100 card numbers, and the skimmer operator usually gets a payment for each number obtained. The numbers can then be downloaded to a computer connected to a card encoder, which can record the data on the magnetic stripe of a blank card.
"Skimming is essentially the full replication of the information on the mag stripe," said Joel S. Lisker, senior vice president for security and risk management for MasterCard International.
It is nearly impossible for consumers to fend off skimmers on their own, but the card companies are working on strategies. One simple way is to require merchants to enter the three-digit card verification value that is printed on the back of a credit card but not recorded on the stripe. Credit card companies are hesitant to push for the measure because it can slow transactions and may tempt consumers to use a competitor's card instead.
Magneprint, a promising technology that is being developed by MagTek, a large manufacturer of card readers, and tested by MasterCard, essentially reads the fingerprint of a stripe's magnetic particles -- that is, the iron flecks on which the data is actually recorded. 
The distribution of those particles is random and therefore unique to every card. It cannot be replicated or altered by a thief, and it does not change as the stripe wears down with use. In this technique, a portion of that fingerprint is recorded as part of the information on the stripe and compared with the actual pattern on the stripe. If the card is a copy, the two will not match.

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "Encoded Engines of Commerce"Magnetic card readers have become nearly as ubiquitous as the plastic cards that carry the personal, professional and financial details of people's lives. When a card is swiped through a reader, a magnetic head inside gathers the information in the stripe. On a credit or debit card, the information includes the card-holder's name, account number and PIN code and expiration date, among other details. In a legitimate transaction, the data is transmitted by the merchant to the issuing bank for payment authorization. But the information can be vulnerable to capture and theft by criminals equipped with card readers. THE DATA TRACKSThe magnetic stripe is divided into three tracks. Every card of a given type must place the same data in the same positions so that the information can be read by machines anywhere in the world. To align properly with the sensors on the read head, the first track must be 218 thousandths of an inch from the edge of the card. WHAT THE TRACKS SAY -- Besides the name and account number, the encoded data includes information like the card's expiration date, secondary accounts to which it is linked and discretionary data like a PIN verification key. Track 3 also has an area for "use and security" details including credit limit, billing cycle and country of origin. DATA TRACK 3ACCOUNT NUMBERUSE AND SECURITY DATAADDITIONAL DATA DATA TRACK 2ACCOUNT NUMBERADDITIONAL DATADISCRETIONARY DATA DATA TRACK 1ACCOUNT NUMBERNAMEADDITIONAL DATADISCRETIONARY DATA THE CIRCUITRYThe circuit board at the heart of the reader processes the data from the three data tracks on a card swiped through the machine, formats and integrates it and transmits it through a connected computer to the issuing bank. DATA DECODER CIRCUITS -- One chip processes information from each data track, converting it from analog to digital form. MICROPROCESSOR -- Converts the serial bit stream produced by the decoder circuits to characters that the computer can interpret. SERIAL CABLE -- Draws power for the reader from a connected computer and transmits data back to it. MAGNETIC READ HEADThe information recorded on the data tracks is in analog form, much like music recorded on magnetic tape. Sensors on the head read the information and pass it to the data decoder chips on the circuit board. TRACK READ SENSORSOn the front of the read head, there is one sensor per track.(Source: MagTek) Drawings (Frank O'Connell/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (89%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); FOOTWEAR (76%); CONVENIENCE STORES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SHOE STORES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%) CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (54%); INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR STANDARDIZATION (54%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: FURCHGOTT, ROY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



379 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Job Training Depletes Labor Pool for Garment Factories 

BYLINE:  By DAISY HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
Chinatown's garment factories, already reeling from a string of setbacks, are facing an unexpected challenge: longtime garment workers are turning down factory work and instead taking paid job-training classes that they hope will lead to better-paying jobs.
 This is the garment industry's busy season, with orders coming in for next fall's fashions and temporary jobs opening up. Factories need workers, and now some of those workers -- many of them women in their 40's and older -- say that the industry's future in New York City is dim. They also say that a job training program pays them just as much for a chance to learn English and new skills as they would earn working in a factory sewing days, nights and weekends. 
 "It's not just if there's a job available now," Li Fang Yu, 44, who has worked in Chinatown's factories for a decade, said of the 13-week job training program she has begun. "I came to America for a better life."
For women like her, it is often their first chance to take English classes and vocational training while also having an income. The Sept. 11 Fund, a relief organization, makes paid training available for about a dozen weeks to about 1,500 workers who lost their jobs or income because of the terrorist attack at the World Trade Center. The fund has six organizations in the city that provides paid training in fields like hotel hospitality, truck driving and home health care. Some of these programs have attracted garment workers.
The fund is unusual in that it pays dislocated workers who qualify a weekly stipend of $300 for 25 to 35 hours of training a week for three months. The women say the stipend is about what they would earn in factories, usually working longer hours and weekends, and only when there is work to be had.
Their rationale worries the people who run factories in Chinatown and to a lesser extent those in Brooklyn and Queens. The garment industry's busy season is roughly between now and May. Some factory owners say they will not be able to fill their orders on time, thereby risking future contracts.
Chinatown's garment factories are already reeling from the export of work to overseas factories, fashion industry problems and the difficulties of manufacturing in New York City. "We're not against the training," said Paul Lau, executive director of the Sportswear Apparel Association. "It's just that right now this is a busy season."
Chau Ying Cheung, who is 45 and has worked in factories for the last nine years, said the industry's seasonality is a big problem. Mrs. Cheung is not going to stop learning English, she said, because she knows the factory jobs will not last long. 
"One month later, there's almost no work," Mrs. Cheung said. "I'm looking for a better career."
Mrs. Yu and Mrs. Cheung are actually not leaving the garment industry, just moving up. Both are enrolled in an apparel-training program that teaches people to work in the sample rooms of fashion designers like Vera Wang and Donna Karan. Hsiuhua Chiang, who has run the program -- which is now getting help from the fund -- said that she had been able to place 20 of the 25 graduates from the previous class and felt optimistic about the future. 
Factory owners desperate for workers have resorted to taking out full-page want ads in the city's Chinese newspapers with minimal results, they say. Some have also requested that job training be put off temporarily. 
Officials at the fund say they are sympathetic to the garment industry's plight but they doubt that there are enough jobs in Chinatown, even temporary ones, for the unemployed, who number in the thousands. Right now there are about 110 factories with 7,000 workers, down from 256 factories and 15,000 employees before Sept. 11, 2001. 
Chinatown's garment industry has not had an easy time recovering from the effects of Sept. 11. After the terrorist attack, orders were canceled when trucks could not get past road restrictions, and the sagging economy did not help. 
New York City does enjoy an advantage over some some other garment-making areas because it has an abundance of two kinds of people: fashion designers and immigrant women, like Jie Zhen Wen. "I haven't stopped working in 20 years in garment factories," said Mrs. Wen, who is 49. In that time, she has also raised five children, who now range from 15 to 24. She did not have the time or the means to learn English, she said.
When she began taking job training and English classes last month, she was working at the factory only on Saturdays. The busy season had not started yet. 
Now Mrs. Wen spends the week at an apparel training program run by the Chinese American Planning Council at 55 Avenue of the Americas. She used to do assembly line work at the factory, like sewing collars onto blouses. Now she is learning how to go from designing a dress to producing it in three months, while also studying English. Her goal is to get a job with a fashion house in Midtown. 
Mrs. Wen said that the garment factories had provided good work for many years but that she wanted to earn more money and move up in the world. She finally has a chance do that, she said. "You can work in the garment factories and that's all you do," Mrs. Wen said. "If I can learn English and work in an American company, it's much better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Li Fang Yu, left, and Jie Zhen Wen are taking job training and English classes as part of a paid program at the Chinese American Planning Council. The program is paid for in part by the Sept. 11 Fund. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (93%); GARMENT WORKERS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); ASIAN AMERICANS (79%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); WOMEN (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); TERRORISM (70%); HIJACKING (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) APPAREL; LABOR; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CHINESE-AMERICANS 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, DAISY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



380 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: NUCLEAR STANDOFF; 
2 U.S. Officers Expect More North Korean 'Provocations'

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
The two most senior officers overseeing American military operations in South Korea said today that it was likely that North Korea would step up its provocations in a bid to gain financial aid and diplomatic attention from the United States.
 The commanders' remarks came as a senior State Department official said North Korea could produce highly enriched uranium as fuel for nuclear weapons within months not years, much earlier than many experts believed possible. That would mean that North Korea could produce weapons-grade material from both its uranium and plutonium programs in a short period of time. 
 "The enriched uranium issue, which some have assumed is somewhere off in the fog of the distant future, is not," the official, James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "It is only probably a matter of months, not years, behind the plutonium" program. 
The new assessment came amid a string of recent provocations by North Korea that Mr. Kelly said were intended to "blackmail" the United States and intimidate its allies into bilateral talks on the terms favorable to North Korea.
In recent days, North Korea has started a nuclear reactor that could produce plutonium for nuclear weapons, conducted its first missile launching in three years and intercepted an Air Force reconnaissance plane in international airspace.
The two senior military officers, Adm. Thomas B. Fargo, the commander of American forces in the Pacific, and Gen. Leon J. LaPorte, commander of allied forces in South Korea, said North Korea would probably continue this pattern, perhaps by starting up its nuclear reprocessor, provoking an incident along the demilitarized zone or at sea, or even conducting an underground nuclear test.
"It's highly likely they'll continue to politically escalate the situation," General LaPorte told a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee today. He added that the motive of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, was to try to "guarantee the survival of his regime and to gain economic assistance for his failed economy."
Admiral Fargo added, "I would not be surprised to see further provocations of some variety."
Neither officer said there were any signs of an imminent attack by North Korean forces, and Admiral Fargo said the threat of war right now with North Korea was "low." The United States has about 37,000 troops stationed in South Korea.
Nonetheless, with President Bush nearing a decision about whether he will send more than 225,000 American troops to attack Iraq, the senior officers' remarks today raised the likelihood that tensions on the Korean peninsula could be increasing just as bombs were falling on Baghdad.
In response to lawmakers' questions and in brief interviews after the hearing, neither Admiral Fargo nor General LaPorte discussed military options for curtailing North Korea's increasingly provocative actions.
Instead, Admiral Fargo underscored that the United States needed to work with regional allies like Japan, South Korea, China and Russia to help defuse the mounting crisis with North Korea, which is on course to expand its nuclear arsenal.
"It's important for North Korea to understand this is unacceptable behavior not only from a regional standpoint, but from an international standpoint," Admiral Fargo said.
Restarting the Yongbyon nuclear reactor has prompted fears that North Korea intends to produce weapons-grade material for its own nuclear arsenal as well to sell on the international black market.
General LaPorte repeated American intelligence estimates that if North Korea began reprocessing existing fuel rods at Yongbyon, it could produce enough material for five to eight weapons within a year.
"We see no indications that the Kim regime will change the policies of military first, brinkmanship and missile proliferation throughout the world," he said.
Admiral Fargo said his Pacific Command had taken steps to lessen the chance that the North Koreans would miscalculate in their actions.
Two dozen B-1 and B-52 bombers have flown from the United States to Guam in the western Pacific. "We've arrayed forces to deter, not provoke a conflict," Admiral Fargo said.
In South Korea, United States Air Force F-117 stealth fighter planes were expected to take part for the first time in seven years in war games with American and South Korean forces. Six F-117's from Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico were expected to arrive on Friday at Kunsan Air Base about 200 miles south of Seoul. A spokesman for the American military command there said the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson would make a call at the southeastern port of Pusan.
Even as the officers said there were no signs that North Korea was preparing for war, they expressed respect for the North Korean military.
"They have studied our military actions, most recently in the Balkans and Afghanistan, and adapted their tactics to offset our technological advantages," General LaPorte said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Kelly, an assistant secretary of state, testifies in the Senate. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (66%); TERRORISM (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; NUCLEAR TESTS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; FARGO, THOMAS B (ADM); LAPORTE, LEON J (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (51%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



381 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: You Want Some Savoir-Faire With That? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As our country confronts historic challenges, including a possible war, terrorist threats and a collapsing economy, it's comforting to know that our House of Representatives has realigned its priorities accordingly and is spending its time renaming french toast (front page, March 12). 
 Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.

JEFF BASKIN
Los Angeles, March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: BASKIN, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



382 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
MCDONALD'S SALES SLIDE FOR 12TH CONSECUTIVE MONTH

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The McDonald's Corporation reported its 12th consecutive monthly decline in comparable sales yesterday, pressured by a hamburger price war, poor winter weather and a weak global economy. 
McDonald's said worldwide sales at restaurants open at least 13 months fell 4.7 percent last month. February same-store sales in the United States, its largest market, declined a greater-than-expected 4.4 percent, while those in Europe, another major market, fell 3.9 percent before adjusting for currency exchange translations. McDonald's, based in Oak Brook, Ill., reported a same-store sales drop of 7.5 percent in its Asia Pacific/Middle East region, its third-largest market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); CURRENCIES (52%) RESTAURANTS; SALES 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



383 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
What President Bush's three tax-deferred savings proposals offer -- and don't offer -- American consumers.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail: hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
A TAX economist I know once told me about his March ritual. He would pick a quiet Sunday, sharpen his pencils, set out a plate of tea and cookies, and immerse himself into that most delightful of pastimes, doing his taxes.
 To him, every line of the tax forms had a story: some stories were noble, some venial, but all were fascinating. What a treat it was for him to participate in this vast and thrilling drama. 
 To the rest of us, tax preparation holds considerably less appeal.
In fact, to most Americans it is the most unwelcome of rituals, full of confusion and pain.
President Bush's proposed tax plan would no doubt add to the confusion, though it might reduce some of the pain, at least for those with high incomes.
The two main pillars of the Bush plan, eliminating taxes on some dividends and extending tax-exempt savings programs, each has some merits. But if either is actually enacted, we will need a whole new set of epicycles within epicycles to incorporate them into the already unwieldy tax system.
As many people have remarked, most benefits of these plans accrue to the wealthy, but this is true for almost any form of tax reduction, since the wealthy pay most of the taxes.
A more damning sin, to many economists, is that the Bush plan is a budget breaker. There may be some compelling economic logic to cutting taxes on dividends, or subsidizing savings, but this should be done in a fiscally responsible manner -- by identifying a specific revenue cut or tax increase to balance the books.
The proposals for the three new tax-deferred savings plans are a notable case in point. Encouraging savings is a worthwhile goal, as is tax simplification. The proposed Lifetime Savings Accounts, Retirement Savings Accounts and Employer Retirement Savings Accounts consolidate and simplify several existing programs. This is a good thing, but the annual contribution limits are far too generous. Unifying tax-deferred retirement programs, but keeping the current limits on contributions, would be a more prudent policy.
Under the first two plans you contribute after-tax dollars, but pay no subsequent taxes on earnings and withdrawals, as with today's Roth I.R.A. plan. With the Employer Retirement Savings Plan you contribute before-tax dollars, but then pay taxes on the withdrawals, as with current 401(k) plans.
Investment earnings are tax-free under all three programs. This is obvious for the first two, since you put after-tax money in, and pay no taxes on the money withdrawn. It's not so obvious for the employer accounts, so let's look at the arithmetic.
Suppose you are a year from retirement, you are in a 40 percent marginal tax bracket now, and expect to be in that tax bracket after you retire. You have an investment opportunity that can earn 10 percent, and have $10,000 of before-tax earnings from your employer that you want to save.
If you use a Lifetime Savings Account or Retirement Savings Account, you first pay taxes on the $10,000, leaving you with $6,000. You then invest this money and earn 10 percent, leaving you $6,600 after one year, with no additional taxes due.
Alternatively, you can have your employer invest the $10,000 of pretax money in the employer account, which grows to $11,000 next year. When you withdraw this money you have to pay $4,400 to the I.R.S., leaving you with $6,600, just as before. Either way, the government collects $4,000 in present value as tax, and you escape all taxes on the 10 percent interest payment.
Any of these plans is a good deal compared with investing outside a tax-sheltered account. In that case you would have to pay taxes on both the $10,000 income and the $600 of interest, leaving you with only $6,360 to spend.
The proposed savings plans would be a great deal for those with the money and inclination to save. Unfortunately, these plans are unlikely to create much new savings. Instead, those with money to save would simply shift it from existing taxable accounts to tax-sheltered ones. Those with low incomes would probably not find the tax incentives enough of an inducement to increase their savings rate.
So how can we increase the savings of low-income workers? A recent National Bureau of Economic Research working paper offers some interesting analysis. ("For Better or for Worse: Default Effects and 401(k) Savings Behavior," by James Choi, David Laibson, Brigitte Madrian and Andrew Metrick. The first two authors are from Harvard; the latter two are from Chicago and Wharton, respectively.)
The economists looked at data from three employers that offered automatic enrollment in 401(k) plans. Employees could opt out, but they had to make an explicit choice to do so.
They found that the participation rate in these programs was spectacularly high, with over 85 percent of workers choosing the default option and enrolling in the 401(k) plans.
Unfortunately, almost all these workers also chose the default investment, typically a money market fund with very low returns and a low monthly contribution. (Presumably the employers made the default investment highly conservative to eliminate downside risk and possible employee lawsuits.)
The net result was a positive, but quite modest, increase in overall savings.
In subsequent work, the economists examined the experience at a company where there was no default: within a month of starting work, employees were required to choose either to enroll in the 401(k) plan or to postpone enrollment.
By eliminating the standard defaults of nonenrollment, and of enrollment at low rates, this "active decision" approach raised participation rates from 35 percent to 70 percent for newly hired employees.
Moreover, employees who enrolled in the 401(k) plan overwhelmingly chose high savings rates.
It appears that defaults exert a powerful pull on behavior, perhaps too powerful. Forcing employees to make a choice seems to have a positive, and welcome, effect on overall savings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Of course you are confused about your taxes. But while President Bush's tax plan may offer nice breaks for the wealthy, new features aren't likely to simplify the chore of doing a tax return. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%) TAXATION; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) VARIAN, HAL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



384 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE WEAPONS; 
Report Says Plan to Safeguard Nuclear Material Is Lacking

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
The United States lacks a comprehensive plan for protecting the world's supply of nuclear material from terrorists, according to a report issued today by Harvard University researchers. 
 The report, titled "Controlling Nuclear Warheads and Materials," is part of a three-year research project commissioned by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a Washington foundation, to create a report card on nuclear security around the world. 
 The nations of the former Soviet Union present the biggest risk, the report said, given their vast supply of nuclear material and deteriorating financial state. There were reports today that the police in Tajikistan, a former Soviet republic, had seized nine pounds of radioactive mercury and arrested two people they said were trying to sell it. 
Twelve years ago, the United States began a program sponsored by Sam Nunn, the former Georgia senator, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican, to protect the material and knowledge needed for nuclear weapons. Mr. Nunn and Mr. Lugar warned today that the pace and approach were inadequate, and they called for a high-level federal official to coordinate efforts full-time. 
"Until you have someone who has day-to-day authority over this, things will fall through the cracks," Mr. Nunn said. 
The report said that about 37 percent of the potentially vulnerable nuclear material in the former Soviet Union is being protected by initial security upgrades, and only 17 percent of the supply is protected under long-term security plans.
Some 80 percent of senior nuclear weapons scientists from the former Soviet Union receive salaries to lessen the economic incentive of cooperating with terrorists. 
The report said the amount of nuclear material needed to create a bomb was insignificant compared with what is available worldwide. The report says that with enough highly enriched uranium, terrorist groups could create a crude nuclear bomb. With a more sophisticated design, the report says, terrorists would need only a baseball-size amount of plutonium or a softball-size amount of highly enriched uranium. The amounts are modest enough to be smuggled out of facilities by employees. 
The report's authors, from the Project on Managing the Atom, at Harvard, gave a loose estimate of $50 billion needed to protect the supply of nuclear weapons worldwide. Last June, the leaders of the world's largest economies pledged $20 billion over 10 years toward the effort. 
The report compiled a list of military security breaches from the Russian media in the last five years, many of which have not been reported in the American press. The report highlights efforts by Chechen terrorist groups, many of which have ties to Al Qaeda, to obtain nuclear material. It says that four incidents of Chechen reconnaissance of nuclear warhead storage and transport facilities in 2001 and 2002 have been confirmed. 
Also, in April 2000, the Georgian police arrested four men who had about two pounds of highly enriched uranium. 
The chief of the Russian customs service reported the detection of more than 500 incidents of illegal transportation of nuclear and radioactive materials across the Russian state border, and the International Atomic Energy Agency has recorded 18 confirmed incidents involving the seizure of stolen plutonium or highly enriched uranium. 
Mr. Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said tension between the United States and Russia over Iraq was not helping the efforts. 
"Russia has got to be a partner," he said. But he also had a list collected over the last 11 years showing international inspectors had been rebuffed by Russian officials. 
"The reason Iraq nuclear inspectors won't ever find anything is that the Russians perfected long ago how to obscure all of this," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ARRESTS (75%); AL-QAEDA (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BASEBALL (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY; NUCLEAR THREAT INITIATIVE (ORGN) 

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (71%) LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



385 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Hears From 3 Governors on Medicaid Plan 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
While endorsing his brother's call for sweeping changes in Medicaid, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida expressed one significant concern today, saying Medicaid grants to his state must keep pace with its fast-growing population.
 "Any reform has to recognize that population growth is different for every state," Mr. Bush told the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. 
 President Bush's Medicaid plan would give states more flexibility in managing the health insurance program for the poor, but the federal government would impose new limits on its payments to states that choose to participate.
Governor Bush said he was inclined to take the new option, "but for one significant question": how will the federal government recognize population growth?
Florida's population grew nearly 24 percent from 1990 to 2000, when it totaled 16 million, and the Census Bureau estimates that it will reach 18.5 million in 2015.
In the last five years, the number of Floridians on Medicaid rose 44 percent, to 2.1 million, state officials said, and spending on Medicaid services in the state grew 72 percent, to a total of $11.4 billion.
Two other governors joined Mr. Bush today at a committee hearing. Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut, a Republican, warmly embraced the president's proposal, but Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, expressed strong doubts.
All three pleaded with Congress to give states more control over Medicaid, which is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. The sluggish economy has raised the demand for Medicaid but reduced state revenues, so many states have cut Medicaid benefits or eligibility, forcing some people off the rolls.
In announcing its proposal on Jan. 31, the Bush administration said it would give states vast new power to expand, reduce or eliminate benefits for millions of low-income people, including many who are elderly or disabled. The proposal would end federal rules that now apply to a third of all Medicaid recipients and two-thirds of all Medicaid spending.
Federal contributions to Medicaid are now open-ended. The federal government spends at least one dollar for every dollar a state spends. In poor states the federal share of Medicaid spending is nearly 80 percent.
States taking the new option would receive fixed allotments of federal money, based on a formula.
Under the president's proposal, states would receive $12.7 billion extra in the first seven years, but that would be offset in later years, when federal Medicaid spending would be less than envisioned under current law -- $4.4 billion less in 2012 and $8.3 billion less in 2013.
A budget proposed today by House Republicans could require Congress to make further cuts in Medicaid's growth. It would reduce projected Medicaid spending by nearly $100 billion, or 4 percent, over the next decade.
The White House said its Medicaid proposal would give states new flexibility. But Governor Richardson said the most important type of flexibility was the guarantee that federal Medicaid spending would rise when the economy turned down.
"You can provide increased flexibility to states without capping federal spending," Mr. Richardson said.
He said he feared that Mr. Bush's proposal would make it easier for states to remove people from the Medicaid rolls, thus increasing the number of people without health insurance.
Representative Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said he had no such fears. "I believe governors do care about the people who live in their states," Mr. Burr said.
Governor Rowland endorsed the president's proposal as a way to preserve Medicaid coverage for working families. "Many states now find themselves forced to withdraw coverage from working families," because states generally have to provide them with the same "rich benefit package" guaranteed to the poorest citizens, he said.
The president's proposal would allow states to offer different Medicaid benefits to different families, depending on their earnings and needs.
Governor Bush said that if he had greater control over Medicaid, he would offer more preventive services and health education, to improve diet and discourage smoking.
In his latest budget request, state officials said, Governor Bush proposed to end most Medicaid coverage of eyeglasses, hearing aids and dental care for adults.
Federal Medicaid spending shot up 13 percent last year, to $147.5 billion. Representative Michael Bilirakis of Florida, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said this growth was unsustainable, but he did not endorse the president's initiative or any other specific proposal.
"I do not have any preconceived notions about the answers," said Mr. Bilirakis, a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida consulted yesterday with Dr. Rhonda M. Medows, left, a state health care administrator, at a hearing in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (95%); POPULATION GROWTH (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CENSUS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STATES (US); HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (56%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, JEB (GOV); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); RICHARDSON, BILL (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) FLORIDA; CONNECTICUT; NEW MEXICO; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



386 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: POSTWAR PLANS; 
Not Enough Supplies or Money, Relief Groups Say

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, March 12 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration draws closer to a war with Iraq, relief organizations in the region say they have neither sufficient supplies nor enough money to cope with the millions of injured, displaced and starving people that could result.
 Citing the shortage of resources, a lack of information about military plans and the current tough conditions in Iraq, aid agencies say that if the fighting is prolonged, particularly in and around cities, at least half of the civilian population of 25 million people might be left struggling for food and water. 
 After 12 years of sanctions imposed on the government of President Saddam Hussein by the United Nations, about 16 million people in Iraq rely almost solely on the food rations they are given under the oil-for-food program, which is administerd by both the United Nations and the Iraqi government. United Nations aid agencies estimate that people could run out of food in less than six weeks if rations are disrupted. 
Further complicating an already difficult situation, relief workers say government organizations and other donors have been hesitant to contribute money out of fear that they will appear to be supporting American and British war plans while the diplomatic discussions continue. With the political maneuvering, aid agencies say the United States will have to provide more assistance than it normally might in such a crisis.
President Bush has promised to make relief assistance a priority of any campaign in Iraq. "America also accepts our responsibility to protect innocent lives in every way possible," he said last week. "We'll bring food and medicine to the Iraqi people."
Right now, it appears much of that work will be left to United Nations agencies that are positioned in neighboring countries to deal with food and water shortages as well as refugees. In addition, several nongovernmental agencies are preparing to enter Iraq as soon as possible to provide aid.
The main problem, say relief workers, is that the money for the level of assistance that may be needed has not been made available.
For instance, the United Nations World Food Program, which will supply the bulk of the food in the event of a crisis, has only $7 million of the $23 million requested.
Andrew Natsios, the administrator of the Agency for International Development, sounded undaunted by the problems. "We've been in Bosnia and Macedonia and Kosovo, in Haiti, in Panama," he said. "You can go through a list of instances where this has happened before. So this is not a new thing."
But, unlike other war-torn countries, Iraq has no real aid infrastructure. 
"People saw us act quickly in Afghanistan, but they forget that we were in that country for almost 20 years," said Cassandra Nelson, a spokeswoman with Mercy Corps, a nongovernmental aid group based in the United States and Scotland. "In Iraq, we are talking about an environment with almost no infrastructure at all. We have zero presence, zero trucks, zero materials."
While aid workers say it is hard to know what to expect, relief groups are preparing based on estimates of 600,000 to 1.45 million refugees, and up to 2 million more people displaced within Iraq. The World Food Program will be responsible for feeding many of them. "We have been able to pre-position supplies in the countries surrounding Iraq to feed 900,000 people for 10 weeks," said Antonia Paradela, a spokeswoman for the organization. "But because of the lack of funding so far, we might not be able to pay the trucks to bring it into the country."
Aid organizations often complain of a lack of money and supplies for their relief efforts, but groups say that the scope of this crisis could be beyond anything they have ever dealt with, particularly if the oil-for-food program is delayed or cut off.
If the United States and Britain attack Iraq without United Nations backing, under the rules of the Geneva Convention they will be considered occupying powers and the onus of preventing any relief crisis will fall to them.
The Bush administration says it is following a six-point plan to limit the harm to civilians. The strategy calls for curbing Mr. Hussein's ability to target his own population, relying on civilian relief agencies, maintaining effective civil-military coordination with a 60-member disaster assistance response team, pre-positioning daily relief rations and maintaining the ration distribution system.
Military officials stressed that every effort would be made to maintain the oil-for-food program, which has over $2 billion in reserves at the United Nations. "We are not targeting civil infrastructure," said Maj. Chris Hughes, the military spokesman on relief issues. 
Still, aid workers say the administration's plan relies on the assumption that war goes exactly as they envision it and, even if that is the case, they say there is still not enough money available.
Joel R. Charny, the vice president of Refugees International, an advocacy group, said the administration's plans fall woefully short.
"Are we serious, or are we not serious," Mr. Charny said. "If we're serious, we have to have enough food in place to start feeding 16 million Iraqis within a month of any operation."
The situation aid workers will be facing is due in large part to the conditions that already exist in Iraq. For instance, children under the age of 5 are now dying at twice the rate they were a decade ago, according to a United Nations report. 
In the event of war, the International Committee of the Red Cross will monitor the initial assistance problems and the treatment of prisoners of war. The committee, one of the few organizations with any people inside Iraq, has facilities in place to treat 7,000 people injured as a result of fighting and have stockpiled equipment temporarily to keep the water and sewage system running in several parts of the country as well as to feed as many as 150,000 people immediately.
Still unanswered, say aid workers, is who will provide assistance if chemical or biological weapons are used or if the electrical power grid is destroyed and Iraqis are left without water.
It is also unclear how Iraq's neighbors will handle the possible flood of refugees. Kuwait has already said it will not accept them, but rather will assist camps on the Iraqi side of the border.
"If things are quick and the food flow from the oil-for-food program is not very much delayed, we have food in place that can assist the more immediate needs of refugees and internally displaced people," said Ms. Paradela. "If things go beyond six weeks or the food flow is cut off, we will be faced, potentially, with the need to feed almost the whole Iraqi population. We have never faced such a humanitarian crisis."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boxes of food and parcels of blankets, stoves and kitchen sets are among items set for transit to Iraq by the International Committee of the Red Cross. (Marc Bouvier) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STARVATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMINE (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); REFUGEES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; FAMINE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) SANTORA, MARC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



387 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Senator McCain's Call to Arms 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 John McCain (Op-Ed, March 12) has cleverly shuffled the deck and dealt a new hand with the same cards the Bush administration keeps dealing to the American public: basing the logic and legitimacy of going to war on actions like Berlin and Hiroshima, which have no similarities to our present situation at all. 
 While no one will dispute that Hitler was a tyrant, he was actively invading and threatening neighboring countries; Japan attacked us.
I would like to see Saddam Hussein ousted so that the Iraqis can try to live in freedom, but buying into the "price of doing nothing" in Iraq is a real stretch. 
To me, the price of doing nothing at home about the economy, the environment, Medicare and education is greater than the price of doing nothing in Iraq.

GLENDA TAMBLYN
Northridge, Calif., March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); TERRORISM (68%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); GERHARD, JOSEPH; MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



388 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: Frist Forsakes Deal Making To Focus on Party Principles 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
Ten weeks into his term, Senator Bill Frist has adopted a vastly different approach as majority leader, preferring the broad themes and political gestures favored by the White House and conservatives to the pragmatic, back-room tasks favored by his Republican predecessors.
 While other Republican leaders, including Senators Trent Lott, Bob Dole and Howard H. Baker Jr., were more independent deal makers who prided themselves on keeping the legislative trains running, Dr. Frist is charting a different path as a committed conservative who says he does not intend to compromise his party's principles for momentum. 
 Many Republican senators spoke approvingly of what they described as a more inclusive leadership style than they had seen from a Republican leader. But Dr. Frist's style has rankled some other Republicans, including Mr. Lott, who this week spoke against him for the first time. 
Mr. Lott centered his criticism on Dr. Frist's handling of a Democratic filibuster against the nomination of Miguel Estrada, a Washington lawyer, to a federal appeals court.
In perhaps the most striking example of his approach, Dr. Frist summoned every Republican senator late last month to a midnight demonstration of resistance on the Senate floor. Mr. Lott said he objected to the session and the weeks of debate that preceded it as a waste of time. He said Dr. Frist should have pressed for an accommodation with the Democrats and moved on.
"I didn't like those late-night things, and I guess I just have a different view of how to get things done," Mr. Lott said. "They used to criticize me for moving the trains, but, after all, what's the main goal here? To score political points with our core? No. The goal is to confirm Miguel Estrada. And if that's really your goal, it affects your tactics." 
He said he would probably have shown the Democrats some documents about Mr. Estrada that they had requested, a move that Dr. Frist and the White House have ruled out.
Many other Republicans agreed with Mr. Lott, preferring that Dr. Frist call for a vote to end debate, which he did a week later, and plans to do again on Thursday. But Dr. Frist, aware he could not break the filibuster, said he was less interested in keeping the legislative machinery humming than in making a larger point.
"I want people to see that we don't fold, period, when we're right on principle," he said. "I know that half my own caucus thinks we've prolonged this too long. But before this is over it will show that patience pays off, just like it does in medicine -- persistence, when you know deep inside that you are right on an issue."
Dr. Frist's interest in large themes has at times resulted in overlooking details, annoying some colleagues. That happened when he reached a deal with Democrats on apportioning committees and committee funds that several Republicans considered too generous. In an acknowledgment of his lack of parliamentary experience, Dr. Frist has since hired experts on Senate rules for his staff.
But he said that in general he saw his role on Washington's stage as more substantive than procedural. Where Mr. Lott, and for that matter most other former majority leaders in recent history, were never known for their passion about social issues, Dr. Frist regularly unspools long floor speeches on AIDS, health care or other topics close to his heart and his training as a physician.
His legislative agenda, disclosed last month, after a slow beginning, is packed with conservative or business-oriented medical proposals, like a ban on the type of late-term abortion that critics call partial-birth abortion, a limit on medical malpractice jury awards, and assistance to vaccine manufacturers -- all issues that senators say he has moved to the top of the priority list.
"He's more of a big-picture guy than we've had," said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania. "He's hanging tough on Estrada, digging deep into these medical issues." 
This week, in fact, the Senate is absorbed in an acrimonious debate over the abortion procedure, a priority for Dr. Frist that has given Democrats an opening to attack Republicans for being out of touch with more pressing economic issues and a potential war with Iraq. It is not an issue that earlier leaders, with less visible ideological rudders, might have emphasized as strongly. But Dr. Frist's aides say it exemplifies his break with the past.
"The Frist rudder is pretty well defined," said Mitch Bainwol, a longtime Republican strategist recently hired by Dr. Frist as his chief of staff. "Instead of the transactional politics of just getting things done, it's the politics of passion."
While some Republicans criticize Dr. Frist, 51, for not being more attentive to keeping the Senate running, he has delighted conservative leaders by digging in on many of the same ideologically polarized issues favored by the White House. Many conservatives had become disenchanted with the deal-brokering practiced by Mr. Lott and other past Republican leaders, including Mr. Dole and Mr. Baker.
"What people didn't realize was that it was the conservatives who threw over Trent Lott for giving into the Democrats too often," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee. "But so far, there's a real sense of contentment with the way that Bill Frist is running the Senate."
But Dr. Frist, who has represented Tennessee in the Senate since 1995, is also enjoying something of a honeymoon among moderate Republicans, the result of assiduous efforts not to isolate a group of senators who will play a vital role in shaping compromises on taxes and Medicare. Even as the leader steers the Senate's agenda rightward, moderate Republican senators say he meets far more often with them, soliciting their views and making them feel valued, than did Mr. Lott.
"Last week, he met with several of us for an hour and let us raise questions about the size and the content of the administration's economic stimulus bill," said Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine and a centrist leader. "If senators feel they're consulted, even if they don't prevail in the end, it makes for a better feeling in the conference."
Centrists say they have been impressed with Dr. Frist's commitment to increasing financing to fight AIDS in Africa, and for agreeing to remove several pro-business provisions from the domestic security bill of last year. But where the conservatives are pleased with Dr. Frist's actions and policies, the moderates praise him more for his manner.
Some of that is the result of the influence of former Senator Baker, now ambassador to Japan, who as a fellow Tennessean has advised Dr. Frist since his first campaign. Mr. Baker said that he had urged Dr. Frist to meet widely and regularly with committee chairmen and freshmen, and Dr. Frist has taken up that advice with weekly meetings that members say are longer and more inclusive than in the past.
It is still early in the session, and Dr. Frist's popularity will inevitably diminish once the major legislative battles begin. At some point, to get bills passed in a narrowly divided Senate, Dr. Frist will have to broker compromises that are likely to alienate party factions that have put their hopes in him. Some Republicans express a mild concern that he sometimes seems to agree with everyone he talks to, and may not sufficiently exert his independence from the White House, which backed his ascension.
"He's doing very well and he does reach out for a lot of different opinions, very inclusive," said Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska. "But he has to be careful that he's not seen as being too malleable, going with whoever talks to him last. He's got to balance his interest in keeping the White House happy with the interests of the Senate, and of course his colleagues are watching that closely."
Mr. Hagel added that Dr. Frist "inherited a mess" by taking over the Republican caucus when Mr. Lott stepped down after making a remark that was considered racially offensive. For all the good will Dr. Frist has engendered, Mr. Hagel suggested that he would still have to deal with minefields of resentment among some Republicans, many with more seniority. As he often does, Dr. Frist described his approach to his colleagues in medical terms, suggesting that he prepares for a legislative debate as he would for a heart transplant.
"I listen to people from all sides, and I want to hear the debate played out before me before making decisions," he said. "In medicine, that's what you do. You talk with the patient, and you bring in an infectious disease expert or whoever you need. I want to have everyone at the table, let them speak with equal time -- which sometimes isn't easy because some senators like to dominate -- then I put that in my databank before making a decision."
Other senators say he is unusually deferential to colleagues, frequently insisting that they take the microphone at news conferences. He has allowed committee chairmen considerable leeway in shepherding major bills, though some have expressed reservations about the president's proposals on taxes, health insurance and the environment.
Several senators said Dr. Frist's approach to passing the Bush agenda awaited a test, and he has yet to show his cards on how much of a deal maker he will be when he is forced into that role. He said he believed strongly in the administration's tax cut plan, but was aware that legislation would have to be bipartisan.
"My goal is to make sure that the Republican caucus never becomes irreversibly fractured, no matter how painful these battles become," he said. "That's the challenge. Of course, it's too early to tell whether I'll be any good at it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I want people to see that we don't fold, period, when we're right on principle," Senator Bill Frist says. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (79%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; FRIST, BILL (SEN); BAKER, HOWARD H JR (AMB); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



389 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: How to Lease Federal Land From the Army Corps of Engineers and Avoid Rent 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
The Army Corps of Engineers owns 456 lakes in 43 states, and under federal rules, private developers must pay fair market value to lease land from the corps along those lakes. But Ronald W. Howell, an Oklahoma lobbyist, a consultant and a prominent Republican fund-raiser, is one developer who recently found a cheaper way.
 Last month, Mr. Howell and his company, StateSource L.L.C., signed a 50-year rent-free lease on 280 acres of lakefront at Skiatook Lake in Oklahoma, not far from Tulsa. 
 The deal was a sublease, between StateSource and the Skiatook Economic Development Authority, which had just leased the land free from the corps under an exemption that allows such arrangements for government agencies. 
The authority then handed off the property to Mr. Howell, with the corps' full approval. Mr. Howell and his lobbying and communications company plan to build a $10 million marina, golf and cabin complex and, in the process, turn a profit.
The corps has granted roughly 1,300 rent-free leases to states, localities and other public agencies, and officials said they did not think the Oklahoma deal was atypical. But they make little effort to monitor such arrangements and keep no central records of them.
Critics of the arrangement say that the deal violates at least the spirit of the federal rules and that the deal is notable because of what is at least a curiosity: Mr. Howell hasbeen finance chairman for Senator James M. Inhofe, the Oklahoma Republican who, as the new chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, oversees the corps. In letters and other communications, Senator Inhofe urged the corps to grant swift approval to the lease, agency officials said.
In interviews, officials at the corps defended Mr. Howell's arrangement as consistent with the corps' efforts to promote recreational development on public lakes.
"We're not in the business of telling the states how to operate," George Tabb, who heads the corps' natural resources division, said. "If they decide that they want to put this in the hands of a private developer at no cost, to stimulate the economy, then that's not our business."
A corps spokesman, David Hewitt, said the agency could provide details about rent-free leases only after soliciting information from its offices around the country, in what he said would be a time-consuming process. A spot check of several dozen rent-free leases in three states -- Georgia, Mississippi and Washington -- turned up no similar transactions, officials said.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Howell defended the rent-free lease as appropriate and said his company's development would help meet the corps' goal of promoting recreation at Skiatook (pronounced SKY-took) Lake. He said he did not believe that the corps' approval of the project reflected special treatment because of his ties to Senator Inhofe.
"All of what we're building is available for public use," Mr. Howell said. "We actually don't think that profit is a bad thing."
But some federal officials involved in the project said they wondered whether the corps was in part seeking to curry favor from Mr. Inhofe. He had urged the corps to speed development on the lake, which the agency chose in 2000 as one of a handful of demonstration sites that qualified for accelerated decisions on recreation projects.
"My whole impression of this since the beginning was that they were trying to railroad this thing through, trying to ram it down our throats, the corps and the Skiatook development agency and the developers behind them," said Kevin Stubbs, a biologist with the Tulsa office of the Fish and Wildlife Service.
The officials did not allege any improper behavior on Senator Inhofe's part, and a spokesman for Mr. Inhofe, Danny Finnerty, said, "Neither the senator nor the senator's staff did anything for Mr. Howell over and above what they would do for any constituent."
Several critics of the agency, who said they had not been aware of the arrangement until contacted by a reporter, said they regarded it as an effort to circumvent federal rules.
"If we're going to do economic activity on federal lands, the federal government should be getting some return from investments," said Steve Ellis, a vice president at Taxpayers for Common Sense, an advocacy group. "In this case, they're essentially laundering land to be used for private development, and the corps seems to have been a willing accomplice."
The Army Corps of Engineers owns 11.7 million acres of federal land, or about 2 percent of the total federal real estate. It attracts about 30 percent of visitors to federal land, primarily because of the popularity of recreation on corps lakes, said Mr. Hewitt, the agency spokesman.
Neither the corps nor the Skiatook authority tried to determine the fair market value of the 280 acres being leased on the lake.
As a matter of practice, the corps does not try to determine the market value of its property, even in the more than 500 existing deals in which corps land is directly leased to private concessionaires for a fee, said Dennis A. Hogan, chief of real estate for the corps' southwestern division, in Dallas, which oversees the Tulsa district. Those deals are awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, and as a rule, they require only that the corps receive a fair return, which usually amounts to a share of any profits or revenues, Mr. Hogan said.
In the case of the 1,300 leases of corps land to state or local agencies, all are rent free, Mr. Hogan said. He and other corps officials said the corps had never tried to estimate that property's value.
"We're not out to make money," Mr. Hogan said. "We're out to provide a recreational opportunity."
Still, at a minimum, federal officials who spoke on condition of anonymity estimated that a 50-year lease of the 280 acres involved in the Skiatook deal would be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, even at the kind of highly concessionary rate being paid by another tenant on federal land on the lake, the Crystal Lake Marina.
"If anyone else in the world had approached the corps without the political influence, there'd be no way this would have been approved," said John Gruninger, the co-owner of that marina, who contends that the rent-free terms offered to the new project will undercut his business.
The rules governing lease agreements are spelled out explicitly in the corps' real estate regulations. The rules allow rent-free leases to government agencies but say in general that "when federally owned property is leased or sold, fair market value should be obtained."
In the case of the Skiatook deal, Blu Hulsey, the town manager for the community of 4,500, said it had been Mr. Howell and his associates who first approached the local development authority to propose the deal, rather than the other way around.
"This was our decision as far as giving the property to them because we wanted to aid them any way possible and to make this development feasible," said Mr. Hulsey, who also serves as the principal staff member for the development agency.
Mr. Howell confirmed that he had made the approach, but he and his associates said the idea of using the development agency as an intermediary to obtain a free lease had been recommended by officials at the corps' district office.
"They said, 'Look, the way our regulations look and the way we do business, this sort of thing works best,' " said Kevin C. Coutant, a partner in the firm.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Lakefront Property, Rent-Free"The Army Corps of Engineers granted a 50-year rent-free lease to a Republican fund-raiser to privately develop 280 acres on Skiatook Lake, one of 456 lakes owned by the corps. (Source: Army Corps of Engineers) Map of United States highlighting lakes owned by the corps. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); ETHICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAKES (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); APPROVALS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) ETHICS; PUBLIC PROPERTY; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; RENTING AND LEASING; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (94%) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; STATESOURCE LLC 

PERSON: JIM INHOFE (77%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; INHOFE, JAMES M (SEN); HOWELL, RONALD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (73%) OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) OKLAHOMA; SKIATOOK LAKE (OKLA)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003 



390 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2095 words

HEADLINE: It Used to Be So Easy. I Remember When . . . 

BYLINE:  By MOLLY HASKELL; Molly Haskell, a New York film critic, is the author of "Holding My Own in No Man's Land: Men and Women, Films and Feminists."

 BODY:
Every year there is cinematic gridlock as filmgoers try to squeeze into the theaters showing the Oscar-worthy pictures the studios choose to release in one fell swoop. But this season, moviegoing in Manhattan has threatened to become an extreme competitive sport. In January one friend was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, but others spent almost as much time and energy trying, with less success, to get into the movies of their choice.
 The usual crunch has been intensified this year by long lines made unendurable by arctic temperatures, and a buzz that has turned an unusually high number of films into must-see events. Loving or hating "Adaptation," "The Hours," "Far From Heaven," "Gangs of New York," "Chicago," "The Pianist," "The Quiet American" and "About Schmidt" became the subject du jour among New Yorkers determined to be au courant during dinner party debates. A state of mimimal preparedness for the coming Oscars ceremony requires checking the major nominees. 
 My husband, Andrew Sarris, and I write about movies, so we benefit from perks like screenings and videotapes, not to mention the deliciously dissipated but professionally justifiable pleasure of simply walking into a movie theater on a Tuesday in broad daylight for a 2 o'clock showing. 
Because most people I know -- even those who keep bohemian hours and say they are hedonists at heart -- wouldn't be caught dead walking into a cinema on a weekday afternoon, friends have been bending my ear with their tales of frustration. One example among many: three women set out on a Saturday, tickets reserved in advance, to see "The Hours" at the Loews on Third Avenue at 71st Street; they find long lines, even for ticket holders, in the cold outside that small theater. When they finally gain admission, the good seats are taken and they have to settle for miserable ones. The movie begins, but after five minutes the sound goes dead. Rustling and murmurs, then boos mounting to hue and cry.
Patrons gather in the lobby and a near-riot ensues. Management quiets the crowd and offers to exchange the tickets for ones to the same movie at another theater. Mass refusal. Arguments back and forth. Patrons refuse to budge. Management finally reimburses in cold cash -- but does not refund the reservations surcharge. The three grab a cab to the Loews Lincoln Square on the Upper West Side. "The Hours" is sold out. They then dash five blocks down Broadway to Lincoln Plaza for the relatively obscure art film "The Russian Ark." Also sold out. (To people who couldn't get into anything else? Not much conversational currency there.) Defeated, they go for an early-bird dinner.

Hurry Up and Wait
So much for casual moviegoing. This scenario has been playing out all over the city: patrons going to the theater more than once because the hot films are sold out for multiple shows in advance; patrons with tickets having to arrive early and wait in line to be sure of getting a decent seat; and the final insult, competing for seats once the doors open.
More people are using the Internet or one of the movie phone lines to book seats, but that doesn't guarantee a choice location. Sometimes the machine breaks down or there are simply too few seats for a given show. Or the opposite problem: supppose you reserve seats, pay the surcharge and arrive to find a practically empty theater? The feeling of being stiffed introduces an element of mortification that is perhaps more vexing to savvy New Yorkers than arriving too late and having to sit in the front row.
The system wasn't working very well to begin with, and it has buckled under this year's seasonal stampede. This is what we do for R & R? Have New Yorkers simply found a way to be competitive about moviegoing along with everything else, or has this diabolical system been forced on us by the plague of multiplexes?
Whatever happened not just to the casualness of moviegoing, but to the romance? We enter airport-like lobbies, are subjected to loudspeakers announcing which theater is currently seating, park ourselves in plastic seats with soda holders for arms, and, in place of double features, are bludgeoned by screamingly tedious (but unfortunately necessary) harangues prohibiting talking, smoking and cellphone use.
Not only have great theaters and their plush seats and majestic curtains disappeared, but so has the technical pride that went with them. Imagine such a scene as my friends endured happening at the old Radio City Music Hall, host to a mass audience from way back, where care in craft was legendary. Rockette-esque precision was maintained by the staff: if a breakdown occurred during the film, the projectionist was fired.
Changes in theaters and the way we go to movies have been going on since the 1950's and 60's. (One friend who was a young New Yorker in the 40's even remembers when cinemas in Greenwich Village served free espresso in the lobby.) Anyone old enough to have seen a movie by Douglas Sirk -- the directorial model for Todd Haynes's stylishly nostalgic "Far From Heaven" -- may well have entered the feature in the middle, nudged her companions when the movie got round to where they had come in, and promptly departed.
I don't miss that phenomenon (which, for the truly nostalgic, can be re-enacted quite often if one relies on newspaper listings of schedules). I like seeing movies from the beginning. I also like seeing them in screening rooms where nobody talks or brings children or eats popcorn that suffuses the theater with a torpid, rancid smell, or forces you to watch commercials disguised as public service announcements and trailers showing all the key scenes of coming films. The disadvantage of a screening is that you can't walk out, but then I rarely leave a movie before it's over. It's one of the characteristics of movie mania, this compulsion to watch till the bitter end, waiting for some unexpected trace of wit or style, or even a new face, to redeem the whole sorry mess.

Sharing a Taste
My misspent days in New York cinemas pass before me as discrete but supercharged memories in which film and theater, time and place, form part of a resonant whole, like those of the protagonist in Walker Percy's marvelous 1961 novel "The Moviegoer." The narrator recalls, as the high points of his life, a series of movie scenes and the smells and character of the theaters in which he saw them. More vividly than any natural wonder or scenic delight, he remembers "the time John Wayne killed three men with a carbine as he was falling to the dusty street in 'Stagecoach,' and the time the kitten found Orson Welles in the doorway in 'The Third Man.' " And there is his memory of seeing "The Oxbow Incident" at a movie house and "the smell of privet when I came out and the camphor berries popping underfoot."
I saw my first Robert Bresson film, "Les Dames du Bois de Boulogne," at the Bleecker Street Cinema. Thinking of suave Parisian women in their nighttime finery, I walked along that funky street on a gray spring afternoon, to the smells of espresso and beer and garlic from Italian restaurants and trees budding green on Sullivan Street.
Other memories are less charming. Although this was the Golden Age of cinephilia, the experience of the unaccompanied female movie maven was not without its perils. Dangers lurked even in upscale theaters, but the Thalia on the Upper West Side, in particular, was a haven for predators. I'd be sitting in a practically empty house, when a grizzled patron five rows away would furtively but skillfully materialize in a seat beside me, his leg sidling up to mine. I'd move, of course. Then might have to move again: the afternoon was cruising time. I began to bring defensive paraphernalia, shopping bags and backpacks that I would place on either side to create a buffer zone. 
So I was already a determined cinephile but ready for protective company when I met my husband-to-be, New York's resident auteurist and film critic for The Village Voice. He was then publishing the English-language edition of the esoteric French magazine Cahiers du Cinema, from its office in Times Square; he knew, and could take me to, those movie theaters on 42nd Street that were less squalid than others. (This was before they all went porno, the incarnation that preceded the recent rehabilitation, or Disneyfication, of the area.)I was working at the French Film Office, writing about the Nouvelle Vague directors and interpreting when luminaries like Francois Truffaut and Agnes Varda and Jean-Louis Trintignant came to town. Andrew and I first met at a screening of Kenneth Anger's underground film "Scorpio Rising," and had our first date at an afternoon screening of Claude Chabrol's "Bonnes Femmes." The former was shown at the Review One on Seventh Avenue, the Chabrol across the street at 1600 Broadway; both buildings were home to offices, editing studios and several intimate theaters still used by small distributors.
On our second date we walked all the way from the Village to the Sutton Theater on 57th Street to see "Morgan" with Vanessa Redgrave and David Warner. (It is now a duplex.) That area was once studded with art theaters where, on any given day, you might have seen an Antonioni, an Altman, a Bergman or a Scorsese. Or you might have walked a few blocks west to the Fine Arts Theater, which along with the Plaza also showed French films. 

Long-Lost Art Houses
The small theaters that were the temples of moviebuffdom in the 1960's and 70's succumbed one by one when it was no longer economical to show art films to less-than-full houses. Every year, it seems, there is another theatrical obituary: recently we've eulogized the loss of such neighborhood theaters as the Olympia and the Midtown on upper Broadway, and right now our 86th Street City Cinema has closed to make way for yet another Duane Reade drugstore. Though hardly an art cinema, it was convenient and represents part of the net loss in a neighborhood scandalously short on good movie theaters. (Remember the Trans-Lux on Madison at 85th Street?)
Film festivals, museums and adventurous avatars of serious film like the Film Forum, the Walter Reade and the Lincoln Plaza have tried to sustain and satisfy our appetites, but they only partially fill the gap. Most multiplexes seem unable to allocate even one theater to art films as they balance hits and misses by double programming: showing a blockbuster in two theaters to carry whatever losses are sustained by the duds, expensive but unsuccessful films they have committed to showing for a certain number of weeks.
In my own personal movie-theater Michelin, Dan Talbot's Lincoln Plaza is the three-star winner. It may not have the historical cachet or revival policy of his great and lamented New Yorker Theater, but for comfort, superb viewing conditions and programming, you can't go wrong. And put a chef's toque in the margin for the concession stand, with delicacies chosen by Toby (a k a Mrs. Dan Talbot), whose mother provided advice along with Raisinettes at the old New Yorker.
Seeing movies on cassette (or, more recently and preferably, on DVD) has its obvious limitations. There is nothing like sitting in a theater and allowing the spectacle to wash over you. Of course, when I think of spectacle, it's not the fireworks of exploding buildings, martial arts and chases in space, or even the verdant vistas of New Zealand; it is the tonalities of the human voice and the planes of the human face, engaged in reflecting the tides and tremors of emotion no less dramatically than all the breathless special effects and computer-generated trickery that the movies can muster to sell their product to a youthful audience.
The sense of scale may not even be a matter of screen size and site but of generational response. For those raised on television, even the large screen is emotionally small, easily encompassed by irony. Those of us who grew up before television, or with television as a sideline to large-screen movies, will probably always be able to make focal adjustments, enlarging the small screen in our mind's eye until it fills the living room with the showgirls dancing or the choreography of migrating birds.
Even if small-screen viewing will never replace the theatrical experience, video technology has revolutionized moviegoing in incalculably rich and numerous ways. Moviegoing isn't what it used to be, but then what is? And I still thank heaven that I live in a city whose theaters show foreign and independent films at all, a luxury -- for me, a necessity -- in which other American cities lag woefully behind.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Cathy Hull)(pg. E1); (Cathy Hull)(pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



391 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Vietnam's Subtle Culture, Prolific in Its Nuances

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
FOR many Americans who came of age before or during the 1960's, Vietnam was the name of a place you didn't want to go to. Its identity began and ended as a war zone. Even today the prevailing impression of the Southeast Asian country seems to be a composite of remembered news clips and scenes from "Apocalypse Now."
 The West had a comparably one-dimensional view of Japan after World War II. And as time passed, the view changed. It grew broader, friendlier and complicated, closer to reality. More than a quarter-century after the Tet offensive and My Lai, the image of Vietnam is due for similar revision, or at least that is the basic idea behind "Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit," which opens tomorrow at the American Museum of Natural History. 
 Organized in collaboration with the Vietnam Museum of Ethnology in Hanoi, this is not a historical show in the strict sense. The only archaeological artifact is a small terra cotta pot, dated around A.D. 500; a single discreet photographic image is the only document of the American war. The exhibition is a lavishly illustrated anthropological field trip through Vietnam today, which inevitably includes glimpses of the Vietnam of yesterday and tomorrow. 
Indeed, the past is apparent everywhere, but indirectly, embodied in old but dynamic popular traditions and in the ephemeral artifacts they continue to generate. A blend of fact, myth, need and collective will, these traditions address fundamental human experiences -- birth, marriage, death -- and together add up to what is sometimes called national culture.
National culture is an amorphous, porous, not to say chimerical concept; Vietnam's no more or less than any other's. The country, a long rope of land about the size of New Mexico, is made up of 54 ethnic groups, most quite small, speaking almost as many languages. Over the centuries, foreign powers -- China, Cambodia, France, England, Japan, the United States -- have come and gone, leaving their cultural mark. Various immigrant groups have been absorbed, mixing with an indigenous population.
One way to get a sense of the resulting complexity is to look at Vietnamese religion, a synchretic, multifaceted phenomenon that includes elements of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism, with late-arriving Christianity and Islam folded in. The proportion of ingredients varies from group to group, but spiritual events of some kind, whether religious or social, public or private, are a fact of daily life.
The exhibition, its route twisting through galleries on the museum's first floor like the coils of a dragon's tail, is conceived as a journey from one such event to the next, starting with customs surrounding the lunar New Year or Tet. A video, filmed in the streets of Hanoi in 2001, catches the buzz of preparations: shops spill over with special foods and ornaments; bicyclists transport auspicious orange and flowering peach trees from surrounding farms. At night, fireworks light up the sky.
In the homes of the Kinh or Viet people, the country's ethnic majority, ancestral altars, like the formidable example in the show, are piled high with sweets, fruits, incense and ceramic jars, locally made in antique styles, to coax familial spirits back for a holiday meal.
Just as New Year festivities mark a passage in civic time, other practices begin and end phases of an individual's life. The exhibition devotes a section to a teenage boy's initiation into adulthood in the northern Yao minority; the rite culminates in the boy's climbing a ladder and, in a classic test of psychological trust, falling backward into a net held by ritual masters.
Like many ceremonies, this one is accompanied by custom-made objects: vividly colored and annotated narrative scrolls and deity portraits. Once painted by the ritual masters themselves, such images are now produced in commercial workshops. And even with the current Vietnamese government's support of ethnic traditions, in the interests of nationalist solidarity and tourism, the exact meanings of their inscriptions are being forgotten.
Another, more common rite of passage, marriage, is fraught with protocols of status and etiquette, which differ in details from one ethnic group to another, as do rituals surrounding death. In Kinh funerals mourners wear outfits that signify their precise familial relationship to the deceased, and burn paper objects -- ingeniously made versions of everyday things like dress suits, motorbikes and houses -- as offerings.
People of the Thai minority erect funerary "trees" to launch the dead toward heaven. Hindu Cham people conduct elaborate cremation ceremonies. The Giarai people of the central highlands set up mortuary houses surrounded by carved wooden figures, including those of monkeys, an animal believed to rule in the ancestral realm that is the afterlife.
Certain ancestors are public celebrities and treated as such. An image of the deified military hero Ly Phuc Man is carried out of his temple in procession each year on a lacquer and gilt palanquin. The life and valiant times of other mythical and historical personalities are recounted in the water puppet plays performed at the annual Chua Thay festival in northern Vietnam. A religion of mother goddesses is populated by a United Nations of divine beings, including Buddhas, Chinese-style mandarins and the goddesses themselves, who seem to be native to Vietnam.
A ritual called Len Dong, associated with the mother goddess cult, is thought to bring material prosperity and has proved particularly popular in the entrepreneurial atmosphere of the market economy, introduced to the country in the 1980's. The performers are female shamans or mediums who invoke entire heavenly armies on behalf of the petitioners, embodying an array of male and female spirits, while their celestial steeds, made of paper, are burned as votive offerings.
The exhibition itself ends as it began, with a grand public occasion, in this case the Mid-Autumn Festival. Once a harvest celebration, it is now treated as a children's holiday, a cross between Halloween and Christmas, with shops selling toys and masks. Some toys are still individually produced from paper and wood; most are mass-produced from plastic in China. And while masks depict traditional figures from Vietnamese folklore, they also include Santa Claus, Mickey Mouse and Japanese anime characters, staples of the global market.
Vietnam itself is now a regular stop on the international tourist beat, attracting visitors in search of exotic sights and handmade goods. And the exhibition itself -- organized by Laurel Kendall, a curator in the department of anthropology at the American Museum of Natural History, and Nguyen Van Huy, director of the Vietnam Museum of Ethnology -- is unabashedly market-friendly, as many museum exhibitions are today.
The installation design by David Harvey is as alluring as a travel poster. The version of Vietnam it frames appears to be socially and politically trouble-free. The promotional mood extends to the presence of a large gift shop of Vietnamese wares in the museum's lobby -- you pass through it on the way to the show -- and a cafe serving native foods. (The museum's chief chef, as it happens, has a passion for Vietnamese cuisine.)
It is interesting to note that the gift shop is not so different in visual effect from the display of masks and toys that concludes the show, and which in turn closely echoes earlier displays of very different materials: the paper mortuary offerings, the deity portraits, the eye-catching items arranged on the family altar. The inescapable suggestion is that all these objects are, at some level, trinkets and toys, and that culture itself, high and low, religious or secular, is a form of play, of make-believe, a glittering theater of costumes and props.
The idea is an intriguing one, and it has produced an absorbing museum experience. Yet it leaves nagging issues unaddressed, and Vietnam itself at a curious distance. Possibly because the subject of the show -- an entire country -- is so huge, we never get a concrete sense of contemporary life: of how, for example, young people, a huge segment of Vietnam's population, conceive of their place in the international picture. Are they really committed to reviving and sustaining traditions, or are they engaged in creating different cosmopolitan cultures of their own, as some contemporary Vietnamese art, seen in several New York gallery shows this month, suggests? And do traditions mask or heal the disruptions of the recent past, which go largely unmentioned here?
These are the kinds of questions that actually make a study of any nation and culture provocative. They will surely be on the minds of many visitors to the show in New York, and they leave one wondering how it will be received when it travels to Hanoi in 2005. To be fair, the curators state at the outset that their focus is in other directions, on other things, and that's fine. But what results is a portrait of Vietnam that, while rich, dense and in many ways revelatory, is in the end more confectionary than it might have been.

"Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit" opens tomorrow at the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, and continues through Jan. 4, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the American Museum of Natural History, installations display a Vietnamese mosaic, including robes and religious images, above; an ancestral altar, far right; and a ceremonial paper horse. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E35); Treasures from "Vietnam": A 20th-century mortuary figure of a monkey king, who presides in the land of ancestors; two square paintings worn as masks during the Yao initiation rites; and a contemporary jar made by the potter Le Van Cam, inspired by antique forms. (Photographs by Craig Chesek/American Museum of Natural History)(pg. E39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); RELIGION (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HISTORY (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); IMMIGRATION (62%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (60%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (60%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) VIET NAM (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (92%); ASIA (92%); ENGLAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



392 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Loses More Than a Leader 

BYLINE:  By Laura Silber; Laura Silber, senior policy adviser at the Open Society Institute, is co-author of "Yugoslavia: Death of a Nation."

 BODY:
Two weeks ago in Belgrade, I walked into Zoran Djindjic's living room and sat down on the couch. There he was, Serbia's first democratically elected prime minister, talking away, telephone in one hand and remote control in the other. It is hard, now, to believe he is gone, gunned down outside his office on Wednesday. 
 A pair of crutches lay next to a pile of books on a coffee table; I think "Bush at War" by Bob Woodward was on top. We looked at photographs of my daughters, and he marveled at how the little one resembled my husband. The three of us had been friends back in the days when few outside of Serbia knew Zoran, the man who would one day become leader of his country and send his political arch-enemy, Slobodan Milosevic, to the war crimes tribunal in The Hague. 
 Over a long night of talk and wine, we discussed America's code orange security alert, Iraq, Serbia and the world as phantasmagoria: this was Zoran Djindjic, a hundred things at the same time. It was the way he ran Serbia -- masterminding, pressing forward with plans to wrench a fractured country into the modern age.
We talked about a failed assassination attempt on him a few days before -- a truck had swerved into his car. He seemed unshaken. I told him I was worried about how easily I had entered his house. He made a call to bolster security. I think he assumed he was smarter than his enemies. He and his wife, Ruzica, did not seem afraid. I felt humbled by their courage.
Fit and slim, Zoran was on crutches after rupturing his Achilles tendon the week before in an exhibition soccer match: the government versus the police. He laughed at how the police officers were surprised to see him, and did not know whether to win or to throw the game to the prime minister.
Upbeat and full of plans, this was not a man who expected to die soon.
His murder is a tragedy for Serbia, and a lesson for the United States. When he and his fellow reformers overthrew the Milosevic regime in 2000, they inherited a security system that had been built up Soviet-style by Marshal Tito. Under Mr. Milosevic's stewardship and through years of war and economic decline, that force became an amalgam of paramilitary and organized crime. 
Zoran and his reformers were able to remove Mr. Milosevic, and later to send him to be tried, because the secret service units had become disillusioned with the Serbian strongman. But even with him gone they remained unreformed and untouchable. 
Something similar is likely to play out wherever America tries to uproot a nasty dangerous despot -- as it helped to oust Mr. Milosevic and is trying to oust Saddam Hussein. Even having American troops occupy a country is unlikely to make a difference in the short run. A regime, in particular one that has developed in isolation like Iraq, Serbia and North Korea, does not die with one man. And the security apparatus becomes like a Hydra fighting for survival.
The reformist government lacked the strength to dismantle that system. Indeed, after taking power in 2001 Zoran opted at first to live in an uneasy coexistence with the security forces. However, he knew that organized crime and corrupt security officers presented a major obstacle to reform. In the last few months Zoran was gearing up for a final showdown with the renegade special forces and their taskmasters in the Serbian police who make up the Zemun mafia clan -- brutes with monikers like Idiot, Fool and Bugsy. These men spilled blood in Bosnia, Kosovo, Croatia, the streets of Belgrade and abroad; now they dominate the traffic in drugs and prostitutes and immigrants throughout the Balkans. The prime minister knew they were threatening his life. But he told me he would simply let the thugs kill each other and then send the survivors to The Hague.
His murder is another reminder to the Serbian people that those who committed crimes against Croats, Bosnian Muslims and Kosovars came to roost at home. And these men could not stand the fact that Zoran was trying to wrest control of Serbia.
Two weeks ago I asked Zoran when Serbia would send the remaining indicted war criminals -- especially Ratko Mladic, the Bosnian Serb general -- to the the dock in Hague. It was too difficult at the time, he answered, there was no one who dared to arrest Mr. Mladic. But he told me he planned to send three army officers accused of crimes committed at Vukovar in Croatia right away. After that, he said, he had been told that the West would stop exerting so much pressure on him to comply with the tribunal.
Zoran Djindjic loved the world. He told me how he had met Fidel Castro at the inauguration of the new Brazilian president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Mr. Castro said he had expected Zoran to be taller -- after all, Yugoslavia is a world force in basketball. "It's the technique, not just the height," Zoran responded. 
Mr. Castro said, "I thought you only liked Americans." 
"No, I like Cubans, too," Zoran replied, pulling a thick cigar out of his jacket. Castro looked down, laughed, and said the cigar was fake. Later that night the he sent a humidor full of the finest Cuban cigars to Zoran at his hotel.
Perhaps it is only the sort of man who can joke with Fidel Castro and also win the approval of the White House who could hope to forge a new Serbia. There is no doubt that the men who killed Zoran represented a nexus of hard-core nationalists and criminals who hated him because they knew he wanted to rein them in. They hoped that with those bullets, Serbia would fall into disarray and stop cooperating with The Hague, and that the next elected leader would pale next to Zoran Djindjic in courage and intelligence. I fear they were right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); POLITICS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); SOCCER (63%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (63%); TERRORISM (60%) ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ORGANIZED CRIME; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%) SILBER, LAURA; DJINDJIC, ZORAN (PRIME MIN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; TITO, JOSIP BROZ (1892-1980) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (56%) SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%) SERBIA; IRAQ; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



393 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: For France and Germany, Still No Love Lost 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, March 12 

 BODY:
When the Elysee Treaty binding French and German destinies was signed in 1963, one of its provisions was to spread the study of French by German schoolchildren and German by the French.
 If the Marie Curie Lycee, on a broad avenue leading to Versailles, heavy with history between the two countries, is any measure, the ideal of integration through the shaping of young minds has far to go toward realization. The school boasts a German partner school in Paderborn, and many of its pupils spend weeks with families across the Rhine in Germany. Yet only 10 percent of Marie Curie's students take German, while 80 percent take English. 
 A few hundred miles east, in Hamburg, conditions are much the same at the Heilwig Gymnasium, a high school north of the German port city's center. English is the required first foreign language and French is studied by only a small proportion of the school's 690 pupils. For German high school students, French is a language of culture and refinement. Of the dozen or so pupils who chose French this year for special study in their last two years, almost all were girls. 
French, said Mareike, 18, "sounds pretty, it's soft, that's why girls choose it; it's elegant." Janek, 18, the sole boy in the group, said he risked heckling from other boys, and that some of them regarded him as a sissy for choosing French. 
The choice of languages by French and German schoolchildren, and the views they have of one another that motivate it, underscores the continuing division of Europe's two largest nations. The fact is that France and Germany do not love each other, even as their politically willed solidarity -- most recently reflected in their oppososition to American policies toward Iraq -- has been the basis for the evolution of the European Union.
France and Germany, aided by the United States, arose from wartime ruin and overcame centuries-old rivalries with a vision of cooperation that brought prosperity and peace to a Continent plagued by war.
In 1963, Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer signed the Elysee Treaty. By the 1990's, France and Germany were so intertwined they were able to join other European countries in agreeing to abolish francs and marks and adopt a common currency.
Yet not even the advent of the euro has papered over the fact that French-German integration may have worked at the institutional level but has scarcely entered the hearts of the two countries' citizens. 
"Talk about French-German relations had become a prayer wheel," said Brigitte Sauzay, a Frenchwoman who commutes between Paris and Berlin as an adviser on French affairs to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. "Always the same thing: thanks to the French and Germans' stability, prosperity and peace in Europe."
In January, Jacques Chirac, the French president, and Mr. Schroder celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Elysee Treaty by pledging to pump new life into the relationship. They proposed common cabinet meetings, joint embassies abroad, a striving for common positions on defense and foreign policy and even joint citizenship for French and Germans with a common passport.
Whether such arrangements are workable remains unclear. But beyond the purely bureaucratic issues, larger matters loom. 
The German-French reconciliation was crucial for Europe. Gradually ever larger numbers of countries united around the two. French-German unity became the magnetic core around which a 15-member European Union, soon to be expanded, coalesced. 
But the 1990's and the end of the cold war were a difficult decade for their relations. German reunification created a behemoth at the center of Europe, a third larger than France. This made French officials uneasy that France's influence would become more marginal. 
Still, France and Germany remain determined to pursue something close to their original vision of a federal Europe. A European constitution is being drafted at a convention in Brussels. 
Yet in many ways their priorities are not those of other European states. Central European countries that have emerged from decades of Soviet dominance, and are to join the union soon, are wary of centralized authority.
France and Germany have also found that their resistance to war with Iraq has not been shared by several neighbors, including Britain, Spain, Poland and Romania. 
"The temptation is great for the present administration in Washington to exploit Europe's weakness and to split apart this bothersome creature, the European Union," former German chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, said. "I consider the E.U. in its present situation very much endangered."
Washington, he said, could come to regret tampering with these decades of European achievement.
The dream of a unity that would overcome the wounds of two world wars began in the early 1950's with the European Coal and Steel Community. In Saarbrucken on the French-German border, a European university arose.
To enhance cooperation, German cities and schools found partners in France. Efforts were made to form joint French-German military units. In 1991, both countries started Arte, a joint satellite television channel dedicated to deepening each country's familiarity with the music, film and theater of the other.
When Mr. Schroder took office, he hired as an adviser on France Ms. Sauzay, who had previously helped several French presidents understand and deal with the Germans.
But the realty is sobering. Arte's audience, after rising rapidly in the early 1990's, has stagnated at about 13 million viewers. In France, where it is most popular, with about 9 million viewers, it is identified with Parisian elites and, as a satellite station, is often not available in rural areas that lack cable to distribute the satellite feed.
In Germany, where about 4 million people watch it, Arte remains an orphan as a result of Germany's fragmented cultural politics, in which responsibility for television lies with the individual states.
Closer military cooperation remains a distant dream, as Germany cuts back on defense spending and France, under Mr. Chirac, boosts it, though for projects like a new nuclear aircraft carrier to project French power, rather than for the joint units closer cooperation would require.
But nowhere is the elusiveness of the dream more evident than in the schools.
While France remains for the German students the font of refinement and culture, the French pupils still regard Germany for its economic might, despite Germany's present weakened economy. Asked what came to mind at the mention of Germany, the French students said economic prowess. "The biggest trade partner of France," said Vincent, 17, a pupil at Marie Curie. 
European integration has always gone ahead under American security guarantees, and that arrangement holds. In some ways both sides are more influenced by the United States than by each other. 
One of the few animated moments in the discussion with the French students came when talk turned to rap music. German rap was bad, the French students agreed, probably because rap was little suited to the guttural German tongue.
"They listen to French rap," said Pierre, 19. Yet both the French and German students conceded that rap was in origin at least American.
But European patriotism? No thank you. Asked whether they felt more European, or French or German, the French students replied that they were French and the Germans German.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of West Germany after World War II, and Charles de Gaulle signed a 1963 friendship treaty at Elysee Palace. (Associated Press); President Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder celebrated the 40th anniversary of the treaty at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); WORLD WAR II (61%); CURRENCIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



394 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ISTANBUL; 
Turkey Bans One Kurdish Party and Moves on Second

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, March 13 

 BODY:
Turkey's senior prosecutor filed a petition with the Constitutional Court today to close the country's leading pro-Kurdish political party, the latest example of the government's tense relationship with the Kurdish minority here.
 That step quickly followed a decision by the court today to outlaw a related pro-Kurdish party that had preceded and given rise to the current one and that, in the court's judgment, had ties to armed rebels. 
 Both developments underscored the profound wariness and suspicion with which many Turkish officials regard the country's Kurds, as a war in Iraq potentially draws near.
Officials fear that a war would whip up demands for independence and even set off violence among Kurds in southeastern Turkey, near the Iraqi border. That concern has weighed heavily on Turkish leaders during deliberations over whether to support an American-led military invasion of Iraq. 
Earlier this month, the Turkish Parliament voted narrowly against allowing the United States military to use Turkey as a launching pad for an invasion of northern Iraq, and American officials are pushing hard for another vote in the coming days.
Vice President Dick Cheney had a telephone conversation today with Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of the governing political party in Turkey. In addition, the American ambassador here, Robert Pearson, met today with Mr. Erdogan, who is assembling a cabinet as he prepares to take over as prime minister.
"Of course we pointed out that there were very important decisions to be made in the coming days," Mr. Pearson told reporters in Ankara, referring to the American officials' message to Mr. Erdogan.
Mr. Erdogan's Justice and Development Party announced today that Parliament would work through the weekend, which is unusual. Even so, a second vote on allowing American troops to press into Iraq from Turkey will probably not come before next week, if then.
The court developments here today also represented a potential setback to Turkey's frustrated bid for membership in the European Union. Union leaders have long demanded that the country improve its treatment of the Kurdish minority.
The court outlawed the People's Democracy Party and further banned 46 of the party's leading members from running for political office in Turkey for five years.
In explaining the unanimous ruling, Mustafa Bumin, the chairman of the court, said the party had "aided and abetted a terrorist organization," referring to the Kurdistan Workers Party, or P.K.K. The group waged a bloody struggle for independence in southeastern Turkey during the 1990's.
Turkish government officials said that the court ruling was about criminal activity and not freedom of expression. They said it could be appealed to the European Court of Human Rights. 
They also said the petition to close down the Democratic People's Party, which succeeded the People's Democracy Party, related to irregularities in the way the party took part in recent parliamentary elections. The Democratic People's Party did not ultimately get enough votes to pass the threshold for representation in Parliament.
But Kurdish political leaders said today's court developments represented an attempt to marginalize Kurds. "This was a political decision," Hamit Geylani, a leading member of the Democratic People's Party, said of the ruling against the predecessor party. Mr. Geylani was one of that party's founders and is among the 46 people banned from politics.
He said the ruling would "deepen the existing problems" between the Turkish government and the Kurdish minority. That tense relationship is among the reasons that European Union leaders have cited in declining to give Turkey a firm starting date for membership negotiations.
Dogu Ergil, a professor of political science at Ankara University, called the court ruling today "the second torpedo which the old guard is sending to scuttle the Turkish ship going toward the west." Mr. Ergil was referring to certain segments of what he called the Turkish establisment.
The first torpedo, he said, was the collapse this week of negotiations to unite the Turkish and Greek sectors of Cyprus. The Turkish Cypriot leader rejected proposed terms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



395 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses in New York City Since 9/11 Continue to Grow 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
The national recession and the attack on the World Trade Center cost New York City 47,000 more jobs than previously believed, bringing the city's total job losses to about 223,000 in the last two years, according to new data released yesterday.
 The State Department of Labor, which released the revised job loss figures, also reported that the unemployment rate in the city edged up in January, to 8.6 percent from 8.5 percent in December. 
 The increase was not large, but contrasted to the trend in the rest of the state and the nation, where the average jobless rate fell three-tenths of a percentage point in January. Nationally, the unemployment rate averaged 5.7 percent that month; in New York State excluding the city, the rate was 4.7 percent. 
"We're weaker than the nation," said James P. Brown, who analyzes the city's economy for the State Labor Department. And given the kind of industries that dominate the city's economy, including Wall Street, Madison Avenue and business services, he added, "we will continue to lag until there is a noticeable improvement in the national economy."
Economists had been expecting that job loss figures would be revised upward this year, though some were surprised by the magnitude of the increase.
The Labor Department compiles its jobs data from a monthly survey of 18,000 businesses across the state. Once a year, it compares the results of its monthly survey with data it receives from business tax returns.
In years when the economy is strong, the revisions usually show that more jobs were created than the department's survey shows; in years when the economy is weak, the losses are usually greater than the survey originally indicated.
The effects of the World Trade Center attack were particularly hard for the survey to measure, said James Parrott, the chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group. "The nature of the survey is that it always misses what's going on in smaller firms," he said, "and 9/11 had a disproportionate impact on small firms."
But the new jobs data also show that the economy had begun to stall even before the effects of the attack were felt. There were also larger-than-expected job losses in the second half of last year.
One possible bright spot in the Labor Department's report was that in January, the number of jobs fell less sharply than in 2002 (employment typically falls in January as stores and restaurants lay off holiday help and corporations cut employees to meet budget goals).
In fact, after adjusting for those seasonal factors, the number of jobs in the city may have actually risen, said Barbara Byrne Denham, the chief economist for an economic newsletter called The New York Stat.
The current downturn may seem especially harsh because it was preceded by a boom, whereas the economy was anemic for several years before the city's last recession began in 1989, said Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. That recession cost the city about 300,000 jobs, he said, adding, "Hopefully, we won't get there."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- Rising Unemployment"New York City's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate has continued to rise, as the nation's has steadied. NewYork City8.6% in January United States5.7% in January Graph tracks unemployment rate from 1998 to 2002. (Sources: New York State Department of Labor; U.S. Department of Labor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



396 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Declined 1.6% in February 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
Retail sales fell 1.6 percent last month, the most since November 2001, the Commerce Department reported today, as snowstorms, terrorism concerns and a bleak job market curbed Americans' interest in buying furniture and cars.
 The drop was roughly three times the 0.5 percent decline economists had expected and came after a revised 0.3 percent increase in January. 
 "It's somewhere between bad and dismal," said Cary Leahey, senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. 
Indeed, there was reason to worry about jobs. Initial claims for jobless benefits have remained above the 400,000 level since the week of Feb. 14, the Labor Department said today. States received 420,000 applications for benefits in the week ended Saturday. That was down from the previous week's 435,000, which was the highest since mid-December. The less volatile four-week moving average of claims rose to 419,750, the highest this year.
"While the latest reading does little to disagree with the view that the labor market remains extremely weak, it offers the hope that things are not deteriorating further," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisers and one of the forecasters who correctly predicted the claims data.
The number of workers continuing to receive jobless benefits rose 14,000, to 3.496 million, in the week ended March 1, the highest since mid-November.
Consumer sales were reduced by the Northeast and mid-Atlantic blizzard last month that closed stores. Lackluster consumer spending would make any acceleration in growth difficult as such purchases account for a majority of economic activity.
The Commerce Department said that retail sales, excluding volatile automobile sales, fell 1 percent last month, the largest drop since the attacks of September 2001. Sales totaled $304 billion, and without autos, $232.5 billion. Both results were below forecasts.
Gasoline service station revenue increased 2.7 percent in February after a 3.8 percent rise the month before, reflecting the higher price of crude oil. The average price of all grades of gasoline at the pump rose as high as $1.70 a gallon in February, up from January's high of $1.52 and up 35 percent from $1.26 a year earlier. In the week ended March 10, the average price rose to a record $1.752 a gallon.
The surge in the cost of oil pushed up prices of goods imported into the United States for a third consecutive month in February, a separate Labor Department report said today. The import price index increased 1.3 percent after rising 1.6 percent in January, the most in nine months. Excluding petroleum, the index increased 0.4 percent, the most since April, after rising 0.3 percent.
The threat of war in Iraq and a strike in Venezuela have pushed up the benchmark price of oil, with the April delivery contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange settling yesterday at $36.01 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crane loaded a cargo container onto the Portland Senator in Oakland, Calif. Export traffic is slightly improved in a still sluggish economy. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows initial jobless claims and the 4-week moving average since January 2003. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Retail Sales"Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows the Monthly Change since 2001.Feb.: 1.6%Jan.: +0.3Dec.: +1.5 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WEATHER (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (71%); GAS STATIONS (67%); IMPORT PRICES (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



397 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: 3 Buildings From 1830's Threatened By a Tower 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A dispute over how to rebuild Lower Manhattan is raging on a narrow street five blocks southeast of ground zero, where three modest Greek Revival buildings dating to the 1830's stand amid looming skyscrapers in an echo of the city's commercial and seafaring origins.
 A developer wants to demolish at least one of the five-story brick buildings, on Pearl Street, to make way for a driveway leading to the garage for a 50-story apartment tower under construction behind the three buildings. 
 Rockrose Development, the builder of the $200 million tower, which is on Gold Street between Platt Street and Maiden Lane, has been encouraged by the Bloomberg administration, which favors residential development downtown and is desperate to promote new construction in a district wounded by the terrorist attack that destroyed the World Trade Center.
But some community groups, downtown politicians and preservationists are waging a last-ditch effort to halt the wrecking ball, saying it would be a shame to wipe out these remnants of the city's 19th-century past. They find it especially ironic that the developer has applied for tax-free federal Liberty Bonds to finance a project that would raze a piece of the city's original commercial district. 
"Here are three survivors of the Great Fire of 1835, a little remembrance of what old Manhattan looked like," said Peg Breen, president of the New York City Landmarks Conservancy. "I think they deserve to stand. This is a reminder that as we plan for new development downtown, we should give consideration to older buildings and their potential. It's the mix of history down there that makes the area special. There's plenty of room for new development."
There is some talk of a compromise that would preserve the facade of the building scheduled for destruction, which is at 211 Pearl Street, although it remains to be seen whether a deal can be struck that satisfies all sides.
Some of the same issues are at play three blocks to the north in the South Street Seaport Historic District, where the Milstein real estate family wants to build a two-tower residential building with 450 apartments on a parking lot at Water and Beekman Streets. Community groups and elected officials, who fought the project in the past, have promoted a zoning change that would prohibit tall towers, which they say are incompatible with the district's smaller, 18th-century buildings.
The City Planning Commission recently adopted a compromise that neither side liked and the battle has now moved to the City Council. The Milsteins have said they may not build if the height restrictions are imposed, a prospect that dismays the Bloomberg administration.
Preservationists say they are not trying to stop the Rockrose project but to preserve the three buildings on Pearl Street. The buildings gained attention only recently, when a real estate broker and amateur historian, Alan Solomon, began digging into the past.
The building at 211 Pearl Street was erected in 1832 as a warehouse in what was then the center of the city's mercantile trade. Although it does not look very remarkable now, the handmade brick building, with granite columns, molded stone lintels and oak floors, was then an imposing structure in a city of wood-frame buildings.
William Colgate, a founder of Colgate-Palmolive, who was selling soap at his nearby Dutch Street shop, either built it or was one of several investors in the project, Mr. Solomon said. When the 1835 fire raged on Wall Street, Mr. Colgate called on his Honeybee Volunteer Fire Company to protect the warehouse.
Inrecent decades, the three Greek Revival buildings have been home to a series of restaurants on the ground floors, with lofts on the floors above.
Rockrose began buying parcels on the block in 1998 for a residential tower but did not begin demolition until late last year. Mr. Solomon took his research to the Landmarks Preservation Commission and won support from Community Board 1; City Councilman Alan J. Gerson; Representative Jerrold Nadler; Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker; and others.
The commission negotiated a one-month standstill agreement but ultimately took no action, because the developer already had a demolition permit. But because Rockrose applied for $200 million in Liberty Bonds, the project is under review by the State Historic Preservation Office.
"This totally took us by surprise," said H. Henry Elghanayan, a principal of Rockrose. "We were days away from demolition, without any indication from anyone that there was anything significant about these buildings. We're hoping to work something out."
Rockrose has also been meeting with state and city officials to come up with a compromise, according to one person involved in the discussions. Under a proposal, Rockrose would preserve the facade of 211 Pearl Street, using the first floor as an entryway to the driveway and garage for the apartment building.
Rockrose owns one of the other brick buildings and hopes to buy the third, for a second tower, which would be built on Pearl Street. If that happens, the fate of the two other buildings is uncertain.
Mr. Solomon said he found the compromise proposal for 211 Pearl Street interesting. "But," he said, "it involves taking out the first floor and the Greek columns, a signature piece of the architecture. It's sort of like knocking down the church steeple."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some community groups, politicians and preservationists are trying to preserve buildings on Pearl Street, right, that were built in the 1830's. A developer wants to demolish at least one for a driveway for a tower. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); ZONING (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & LAND DEVELOPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



398 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Budget Impasse Continues, And So Does Finger-Pointing 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 13 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver engaged in another round of public sparring today as each man continued to blame the other for a budget impasse that threatens to shut down the state government.
 Mr. Pataki, speaking at a ceremony in Manhattan to swear in the new commissioner of the state's Human Rights Division, asserted that Mr. Silver might be trying to prompt a government shutdown by refusing to negotiate his plan to authorize about $4 billion in new borrowing, backed by annual payments from a federal court settlement with tobacco companies. 
 "We're doing everything we can to prevent that from happening," Mr. Pataki said of a possible shutdown. "But I truly feel that the failure of the speaker to act or negotiate at all in good faith leads me to conclude that he may well be looking to try to cause a government shutdown, a train wreck, in order to push through massive tax increases that would dramatically hurt our economy."
In an interview, Mr. Silver, a Democrat, shot back that it was the governor who had proposed raising taxes, and that Mr. Pataki, a Republican, had refused to engage on the budget issue.
"He is not negotiating in any way, shape or form," Mr. Silver said. "And he is putting out a series of ultimatums, 'Do it my way, or here is the memo of my budget director: we are shutting government down.' "
In a March 7 memo, Mr. Pataki's budget director, Carole E. Stone, said that if no budget is adopted by April 1, only money to pay for state employee salaries, Medicaid and welfare will continue to be provided. Mr. Silver had said that such a move would be a virtual shutdown of government, but administration officials had said that it would be an effort to keep at least core government services running.
Today, there were other measures of the growing animosity between the governor and the speaker. Mr. Silver continued to criticize the governor for using state money to pay for television advertisements in which he appeared for a program that provides health insurance for poor families. Pataki administration officials criticized Mr. Silver for offering his Democratic colleagues the use of state-financed mailings to attack the governor's budget cuts.
The face-off underscores the policy disagreements over Mr. Pataki's proposed spending cuts to education and health care, and over how to borrow a third of the money needed to close an $11.5 billion gap in the state's $90.8 billion budget.
Without any borrowing, New York will run out of cash by May and will be unable to pay its bills, including local aid to cities, towns and counties, state officials said.
On May 17, for example, school districts around the state must vote on their budgets, and they are dealing with a $1.2 billion cut in overall state aid for everything from operating expenses to specific programs like pre- and all-day kindergarten. If the cuts go through as proposed by the governor, many districts will have to raise taxes, some just to pay for growths in fixed costs, like teacher salaries, pensions or the rising cost of heating oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



399 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Reaching for Moon, China Works to Put Astronauts in Orbit 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 11 

 BODY:
Even as Americans question the purpose of manned space flight after the loss of the space shuttle Columbia, the world's newest space power, China, is recreating the glory days of Apollo.
 In October China plans to send its first astronauts into orbit on its Shenzhou spacecraft. When their re-entry capsule parachutes back to the grassy steppes of Inner Mongolia, the Chinese hope to have exceeded American and Soviet records for the number of men, length of time in orbit and complexity of operations on a maiden manned voyage in space. China plans to have two or three astronauts aboard for the first flight, while American and Russia put one man in orbit on their first tries. 
 But China's aims go far beyond low-earth orbit. Beijing is pursuing multibillion-dollar programs to construct a space station and explore the moon. Its scientists are energetically, if still dreamily, planning a colony on Mars. 
China's Communist leaders are taking a page from the American playbook of the 1960's to spur technological advances, give China a place at the pinnacle of military power and bolster the popularity of a governing party that still faces enormous social and economic problems.
"Space technology does not belong to the rich countries alone," said Zhang Houying, a scientific director of the Shenzhou program. "In science there is only a No. 1, no No. 2. We'd like to lead in contributing to mankind." China's space program, controlled by the reflexively suspicious military, has long been shielded in secrecy. The program's managers do not disclose their budget, launch details or even the names of the 14 astronauts in training at a guarded complex outside Beijing. 
But the country's top officials make clear that they intend to challenge the United States in space, where it has faced little competition in manned space flight since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Barring a quick breakthrough in NASA's review of what happened to the Columbia, the American shuttle fleet could still be grounded when China becomes the third nation to send its own astronauts into orbit, providing an extra jolt of publicity that the Chinese believe will add to the prestige of the mission.
Chinese officials also argue that the United States has wasted wealth and energy on the complex and inherently risky shuttle. That gives China, though still at least a generation behind in space technology, a chance to catch up.
China intends to reach the moon by 2010. Some here belittle the American moon landing in 1969, proclaiming they will do more than "plant a red flag and pick up rocks," as one space planner put it. 
Officials say they aim to exploit the moon's resources. They covet its apparently abundant supply of helium-3, a rare isotope on earth that some scientists believe may prove to be a clean fuel of choice when used in special nuclear fusion reactors that would have to be developed.
"We've got to seize this moment when other countries have no comprehensive plan to return to the moon," Luan Enjie, the head of China's National Space Administration, told the official New China News Agency this month.
The cost of these efforts is staggering for a developing country, even one with a decade-long streak of fast economic growth. Foreign experts estimate China's annual spending on space programs at $1.3 billion to $3 billion. While that is no more than one-fifth of NASA's budget, it is at least 10 times what Russia spends on its much-depleted space program.
China's celestial ambitions are fueled as much by defense as discovery. The push into space has helped improve the range and accuracy of ballistic missiles and provided sophisticated tools for military reconnaissance.
Military strategists now boast that the January mission of Shenzhou IV, the precursor to the manned voyage, showed that China had mastered technology to remotely alter cruise trajectories, a skill it considers critical to frustrating America's planned missile defense system.
Mutual mistrust, in fact, may be contributing to the beginning of a new space race.
When the United States imposed sanctions on China for weapons proliferation in 1999, it targeted the country's commercial satellite launchings, an important source of money for the space program. 
The sanctions apply to any satellite made with even minor American components, like microchips, and they have crippled China's once lucrative launching industry.
Though it is arguably the world's third space power, China has not been invited to join the 16 nations taking part in the International Space Station. Chinese scientists said in interviews that they were enraged when the United States denied them visas to attend the World Space Congress last year in Houston. "The Chinese perceive themselves to be deliberately excluded and slighted on even small things by the U.S.," said Joan Johnson-Freese, an expert on China's space efforts at the Naval War College in Rhode Island. "That has pushed them to pump more money into their own program."
It was the United States, though, that inadvertently gave a boost to China's earliest efforts to reach space some 50 years ago. Qian Xuesen, formerly a leading rocket engineer at the California Institute of Technology, was expelled to China during the McCarthy era for suspected Communist sympathies. He designed China's first missiles and is now regarded as the father of its space program.
Under his guidance, China launched its first satellite in 1970. It blared the Maoist anthem "The East Is Red" from orbit. But the country's manned space program did not begin in earnest until 1992 with the start of the current 921 project.
The program has not been flawless. Long March booster rockets suffered fiery failures in the mid-1990's. Officials predicted that a Chinese would orbit the earth by 1999, the 50th anniversary of Communist rule. In fact, it was not until 1999 that China managed the first trial voyage of an unmanned spaceship.
But as the manned mission approaches, leaders have begun stirring up patriotic support. Stamps and phone cards imprinted with images of the spaceship have become collectors' items. Space fairs have shown mock-ups of a robotic lunar vehicle and a Mars colony.
The military has dropped hints about the rigorous preparation of its astronauts, called taikonauts. State television has offered glimpses of them floating weightless in training sessions.
The Chinese with the right stuff, like many of the first American astronauts of the Mercury and Gemini programs, are all fighter pilots. They average 30 years old, weigh about 145 pounds and are about 5 feet 6 inches tall, military officials say, ideally suited to minimize load and maximize maneuverability in flight.
"Appropriate and medium in stature, quick in movement and unafraid of hardship, China astronauts are clearly superior," said Su Shuangning, a space program director, was quoted as telling the state media.
Though such talk has made space a point of pride, the program does not have universal support.
Some scientists say privately that their country may be emulating the wrong achievements. When the United States and Russia embarked on their space programs more than 40 years ago, they were already leaders in making conventional aircraft. China, despite repeated attempts, does not build airliners or high-quality fighter jets.
It is also unclear how much of China's space program represents a scientific breakthrough. The Shenzhou is a knockoff of the Russian Soyuz. Like the Soyuz, it has three sections: a propulsion module, a pressurized re-entry capsule, and a forward module used as work space in orbit.
Chinese astronauts have been instructed at Russia's training center, Star City. Chinese scientists acknowledge that they bought life support systems from Russia.
More pointedly, the State Department says two leading American companies, Hughes Electronics and Boeing, helped China improve the guidance, telemetry and aerodynamics of the Long March rockets in the late 1990's. 
Because the rockets have military as well as civilian uses, the companies were charged with violating export control laws. This month they agreed to pay $32 million to settle the charges.
Chinese officials deny that their space program depends heavily on foreigners. Officials have dismissed the American charges as laughable. They say they have imported some Russian technology like the Soyuz but have made innumerable improvements. For example, the Shenzhou's forward module has a collapsible solar panel and separate thrusters, so that it can remain in space after the astronauts return to earth, something the Russian Soyuz could not do.
Phillip Clark, a space expert at Molniya Space Consultancy in London, said China had benefited from studying what others had achieved in space, but that China's indigenous efforts had allowed it to skip ahead. "There's no reason for them to reinvent the wheel," he said. "But they are doing things their own way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: This image of an astronaut in training, who was not identified, was broadcast on Jan. 6 on Chinese television. (ImagineChina)(pg. A10) Chart: "The Road to Space"China is expected to carry out its first manned space flight later this year. A look at the Shenzhou craft and the history of the Chinese space program. SHENZHOU V, China Expected in 2003Diagram shows: ORBITAL MODULERE-ENTRY MODULEPROPELLING MODULESOLAR PANELS VOSTOK, U.S.S.R. 1961-1963Diagram shows: RE-ENTRY MODULESERVICE MODULE MERCURY, U.S.A. 1961-1963Diagram shows: PARACHUTE MODULERE-ENTRY MODULE CHINA'S SPACE PROGRAM OCT. 8, 1955 -- The American scientist Qian Xuesen was expelled from the United States as a suspected Communist sympathizer. Once in China, he laid the foundation for China's aerospace and missile defense programs. FEB. 19, 1960 -- China launched its first successful rocket, the foundation of its ballistic missiles. APRIL 1, 1968 -- China first declared an intention to send people into space and selected astronauts. APRIL 24, 1970 -- China launched its first satellite, Dong Fang Hong (The East Is Red). MARCH 1986 -- Deng Xiaoping approved the 863 Plan, to develop advanced technology including sending a Chinese man into space. SEPT. 7, 1988 -- By launching meteorological satellite Feng Yun 1, China became the fourth country to operatea satellite in Sun Synchronous Orbit. APRIL 7, 1990 -- China began to provide commercial launch service to the international market. JULY 16, 1990 -- China launched Long March-2E, the first cluster carrier rocket. It was a foundation for spaceship launches. 1992 -- China launched Project 921, its third attempt to advance the goal of putting men into space. This time, the program received more direct funding. JAN. 27, 1995 -- The space program suffered a setback when a Long March-2E rocket exploded while launching an Apstar-2 satellite for Hughes Corp. FEB. 15, 1996 -- A second major setback occurred when a Long March-3B rocket exploded moments after liftoff while launching a television satellite. NOV. 20, 1999 -- China launched a spaceship, called Shenzhou, or magic vessel, for the first time. It was considered a success. JAN. 10, 2001 -- Shenzhou II, unmanned, was launched with some scientific research projects on board. MARCH 25, 2002 -- Unmanned Shenzhou III was launched with a simulated environment for astronauts. DEC. 30, 2002 -- China launched Shenzhou IV, the last unmanned test. OCTOBER 2003 -- China is expected to launch Shenzhou V, with two or three astronauts aboard, becoming the third nation to send people into space. (Sources: New China News Agency; China Aerospace Technology Corporation; Space International Magazine of the Chinese Academy of Space Technology)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); SPACE STATIONS (77%); MEN (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); EARTH (79%); MARS (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 



400 of 931 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
WorldCom Plans to Take $79.8 Billion Write-Down
WorldCom said that it was writing down $79.8 billion of its good will and other assets in a move acknowledging that many areas of its vast telecommunications network are essentially worthless.
 The company said that all existing good will, valued at $45 billion, would be written down. It will also reduce the value of $44.8 billion of equipment and other intangible assets to about $10 billion. The size of the write-down surprised analysts. Page C2. 

WB Shelves Plans for Ad-Free Series
Plans by the WB network and a leading television producer for a live summer entertainment series that would run without commercials -- instead incorporating the sponsors' pitches into the shows -- have been shelved, perhaps indefinitely. Advertising. C5.

Judge to Intervene in Tax Case
The Justice Department asked a Federal District Court judge to prohibit Irwin Schiff, left, from interfering with tax laws. Mr. Schiff, 75, the author of "The Federal Mafia" and other books that say that income taxes are voluntary, has twice gone to prison for tax crimes. He said the government had no authority to enforce the payment of taxes. C4.

Judge Dismisses Enron Accusations
A federal judge has dismissed fraud and insider trading accusations brought by investors against the outside directors of Enron, but allowed plaintiffs to pursue cases that charge the directors with negligence. C6.

Ahold Unit Threatens Web Site
A Web site devoted to gossip about the food service industry has partly shut down after being threatened with legal action by U.S. Foodservice, a unit of Royal Ahold. C2.

F.D.A. Requires Bar Codes on Drugs
To reduce medical errors, the Food and Drug Administration announced that it would require bar codes on all medications so hospitals can use scanners to make sure patients receive the correct dose of the right drug. A1.

Bayer said that its insurance coverage might not be adequate to cover its potential liabilities in connection with Baycol, a cholesterol-reducing drug the company withdrew in August 2001. World Business, Section W.

House Tackles Medical Malpractice
The House passed legislation imposing a $250,000 limit on jury awards for pain and suffering in medical malpractice cases. The bill faces an uncertain future in the Senate. A24.

Retail Sales Fall Unexpectedly
Retail sales fell 1.6 percent last month, the most since November 2001, the Commerce Department reported, as snowstorms, terrorism concerns and a bleak job market curbed Americans' interest in buying furniture and cars. The drop was about three times the decline economists had expected and came after a revised 0.3 percent increase in January. C4.

Facial Recognition Systems Improve
Facial recognition technology has improved substantially since 2000, according to results released from a test by four federal agencies involving systems from 10 companies. C2.

Pepsi Bottling to Pay Overtime
In an agreement with the State of New Jersey, Pepsi Bottling will pay $17.36 million to nearly 700 of the company's truck drivers and sales representatives who contended that they were denied overtime pay. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,821.75 up 269.68Nasdaq composite -- 1,340.77 up 61.5310-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.75% up 0.16The euro -- $1.0813 down 0.0185The dollar -- 118.57 yen up 1.25 Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices since August 2003.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.6% Graph: "TODAY" shows industrial production figures since August 2003.February figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: Unch. Graph shows retail sales figures since Sept. 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); DAMAGES (87%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (86%); BIOMETRICS (85%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NEGLIGENCE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); WRITERS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (70%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (69%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (68%); JURY TRIALS (68%); VERDICTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (68%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (68%); OVERTIME (66%); INSIDER TRADING (65%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); RETAIL SALES (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); TERRORISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (83%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); AHOE (FRA) (83%); AH (BIT) (83%); AH (AMS) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003 

 
